I ask the Minister for External Territories a question. First, will he give the Mouse details of the steps which are being taken to acquire alienated land on the Gazelle Peninsula and restore it to Tolai ownership? Secondly, who is bearing the cost of this action? Thirdly, has his attention been drawn to statements made during the recent visit of the Leader of the Opposition comparing Australian stewardship unfavourably with that of the Germans? Is there any substance in these allegations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is the Minister aware of the serious problems concerning pre-school education in New South Wales, problems related to payment of adequate salaries for teachers and ancillary staff, provision of teacher training facilities, and costs associated with building, equipping and maintaining preschool kindergartens? In view of the acknowledged importance of pre-school education in the overall educative process, what action is contemplated by him to overcome the situation with regard to pre-school education in New South Wales? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of a recent report in a newspaper in which a social worker in Melbourne when addressing Melbourne University students is alleged to have said that 'drug abuse in this country is sensationally enlarged but in fact is not enough to worry about'? He is also alleged to have said that Australians must accept drug taking by young people just as they had learned to accept alcoholism and that educating young people against taking drugs would probably have more harmful effects than helpful ones. Does the Minister have any comparative figures which could indicate the growth and extent of drug taking in Australia? Does he agree that any drug taking by young people must be accepted? ls he aware of any evidence to suggest that educating young people against taking drugs is more harmful than helpful? 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact, as comments freely circulating would have people believe, that the Government's attitude towards altering the common fee schedules had been affected because pamphlets detailing these schedules for distribution to the public had already been printed before final discussions took place? If these comments are erroneous, will the Minister clarify the matter? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service will be aware that the present term of the  Chairman  of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority expires on 30th June 1970. Is it a fact that no arrangements have been made for a further appointment? If this is so, does it mean that the Authority is to be disbanded or reduced in function? If so, is any action contemplated to ensure job continuity or security for employees of the Authority, particularly those whose age precludes them from taking advantage of ready alternative employment opportunities? 
As this is my initial contribution to debate in this chamber I would like to start by thanking the electors of Warringah for giving me the responsibility of being their representative in this place. I would also like to thank all those people who worked so hard to ensure I did have that responsibility. As we know, the situation obtaining in Australia's wheat industry over the past years has given rise to an immense amount of discussion, both objective and the complete reverse. In assessing the proposed legislation before the House 1 think it is fair to review the objectives and the mechanisms proposed to achieve these objectives as they affect not only the non-human problems of disposing of massive wheat surpluses in this country but just as importantly, as they affect the very human problems facing Australia's primary producers. In our pursuit of a realistic trading situation we must not forget our pursuit of a fair deal for those engaged in primary production, and vice versa. 
Looking very briefly at the development of Australia's wheat industry since the Second World War, we have a primary industry in which steps were taken to stabilise the price received by the producer and to control the internal and external marketing of wheat by a central authority. A minimum guaranteed price for wheat consumed in Australia and for a significant proportion of the wheat exported was agreed upon. A stabilisation fund was established by means of a tax on wheat exported when the export price was higher than the guaranteed price. But if the revenue accumulated in this way proved to be inadequate, the Government agreed to underwrite the cost of the scheme. Looking at the price guarantee agreed upon, to my mind it is of great significance that this price was related to a cost of production which was to vary according to an index of production costs for each season. I hope the House will excuse this necessarily brief excursion into history but I believe it is essential if we are to fully appreciate the current situation. Broadly, the aim was to ensure economic security for wheat growers and a No to stabilise export earnings. More importantly, perhaps, comes the next question: What has been the effect of the legislation? 
Initially the plan produced a situation where home consumption prices and guarantees were less than export prices. This had the effect of allowing industry surpluses to be paid into the stabilisation fund. But it also had the effect of discouraging new entrants into the industry and of discouraging those already growing wheat from growing additional quantities. This situation was added to during the early 1930s with land being set aside for wool production. However, since the early 1950s woo] prices have been dropping as has the export price of wheat. At the same time home consumption prices have been moving steadily upwards as the guaranteed prices have risen in reaction to increased production costs. In this situation the scheme clearly gave no warning to growers to grow less wheat. In fact, it encouraged wheat production regardless of whether a market existed or would continue to exist. This incentive to grow more wheat has been accentuated by such factors as low wool prices, improved technology both in machinery and through improved varieties and cultural methods, development of pasture improvement methods allowing conversion of grazing lands to arable lands, and the drought of the mid-1960s which encouraged land owners to grow a quick cash crop with a guaranteed price to alleviate their urgent financial problems. The combination of these factors produced a situation where wheat acreages grew from less than 10 million in 1956-57 to 26.7 million acres in 1968-69. 
To add to the total amount of wheat being produced, the average yield per acre has been rising. Despite the seasonal fluctuations which have occurred, production, as we know, reached 540 million bushels in 1968-69. Although 1 believe there are certain important aspects of the stabilisation plan which are open to a deal of question, obviously the situation produced by the combination of factors which I have mentioned since the mid-1950s was capable of being resolved so long as the export markets for wheat continued to grow. The efforts of the Australian Wheat Board in securing additional markets during this period of greatly increased home supply must be recognised and applauded. However, it is in the context of world supply and demand patterns of wheat that I believe we must look at the present situation existing in Australia. 
While wheat growers can justifiably argue that the level of protection or subsidy which they have been granted has been reasonable - particularly when one bears in mind the levels of protection given to certain secondary industries, some of whose products primary producers must use of necessity, and also keeping in mind the real economic problems confronting the man on the land - the fact that wheat surpluses have reached a level not before envisaged, and most importantly do not look like readily being disposed of, has of course given rise to a great deal of alarm. 1n making any statements about fu true markets we should look, as I have said, at the total world situation. Firstly, let its look at the wheat production situation. No. 32 of the 'Wheat Situation1 published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in late 1969 has this to say: 
World wheal production in 1964  h  climated to have continued at a very high level, only slightly below the 1968 record of 328 million metric Ions. The appreciable declines  expected  in  output  in the United Stales. Australia ami' Argentine will be  largely  affected by increased harvests n other countries, including Canada. l-rance, India anil Pakistan. All main producing regions shared in the increase of 25'iv- iti world wheat production thai occurred between 1 963-1968. but the United States, Canada and Australia have taken steps aimed at containing the level of production. The expansionary trend thai has occurred in the other main producing regions, however, seems likely lo continue, although annual harvests will be affected by unpredictable variations in seasonal conditions. The USSR. India, and Pakistan are placing considerable emphasis on ibc expansion of agricultural production and. at present, this expansion is centred mainly on cereal crops. 
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in its publication 'Agricultural Projections for 1975 and 1985' deals with the production and consumption of major foodstuffs in Europe, North America, Japan and Oceania and predicts that grain production in the OECD area will rise substantially by 1975 and again by 1985. The survey additionally predicts that North America will substantially increase its exports and that production will rise in Western Europe, the United 
Kingdom and Australia. Total world production is estimated to rise from approximately 112 million metric tons in 1961-63 to approximately 150 million metric tons in 1975 and a massive 170 million metric tons in 1985. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I think it is most important too for us to be aware of, and to assess the effect of, the so-called 'Green Revolution' in Asia. It is plain to see that the acreage of high yielding grain varieties in Asia is rising rapidly. It has risen from 200 acres in 1964-65 to 20 million acres in 1967-68, and this acreage will continue to rise. In addition, wheat yields are rising. India's yield rose from an average of 13.6 bushels per acre in 1964-65 to 17.5 bushels per acre in 1967-68 with similar climatic conditions prevailing. Grain production in India rose 35% for wheat, 26% for rice and 40% for maize over the same period. During this time, despite tremendous obstacles, the acceptance of improved agricultural technology by the farmers has been marked. To my mind,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this is of particular importance because it has always been promulgated that peasant farmers would not accept improved agricultural technology, and in fact they are. Ceylon, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia also report increased home production. We should try to assess the probable world demand for wheat. The publication of the BAE, to which I have already referred, states: 
World trade in wheat and flour fell in 1968-69 continuing the trend"* evident in the previous 2 years. Marked reductions in imports into India  and  Pakistan and also in those by Mainland China  and  the Soviet Union were the main cause of the decline in world trade in 1963-69. 
However, the review suggested: 
No further decline in world trade of wheat and flour is expected in 1969-70 and Australia's exports should at least be maintained at the 1968-69 level. 
The review, in its summarised outlook, states: 
While some countries in the traditional major importing regions of Western Europe are expected  to  import more wheat in 1969-70 compared with the previous year, the trend in imports is likely  to  be influenced both by the slow growth in demand  and  increasing availability of supplies from domestic crops. 
The OECD projections, to which I previously referred, make the prediction that per capita human consumption of grains is tending to decline in almost all countries as incomes rise, so that total human consumption in the OECD area barely increases up to 1975 and again up to 1985. It goes on to state: 
On the other hand, the consumption of grains by livestock is rising sharply as a result of increased output of livestock products. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, other authorities have similar points of view, and we can find numerous considered warnings of persistent surpluses during the next 10 years if the present trends are allowed to continue. 
In addition, we should especially be aware of the situation in China, which is a large and reasonably consistent buyer of our wheat. It has been suggested that China has purchased wheat from Western countries in order to accumulate locally produced rice for export. During the 1960s China was able to import low priced wheat and export more highly priced rice. With the export prices for Chinese rice now noticeably lower and the increasing selfsufficiency in rice production amongst its Asian clients, this source of revenue for the Chinese could be greatly affected. The implications for Western exporters of wheat to China are obvious. In Australia, with increased acreages, better technology and good seasons in 3 successive years, carryover stocks were 80.5 million bushels in 1967, 51.8 million bushels in 1968 and approximately 340 million bushels at 1st December 1969. 
Whilst 1 would be the first to argue that Australia should maintain some surplus of wheat in stock, both to take advantage of any international market opportunities which may occur and also for domestic feed requirements in times of drought, obviously the levels of surplus, with attendant storage costs and amounts of interest foregone, have reached alarming proportions. Briefly then it would seem that the major exporting countries have the ability to supply enormous quantities of wheat to a market which is continually endeavouring to become self-sufficient, and showing every evidence of the capability to do so. Obviously any responsible government must take action to ameliorate the difficulties which at present bedevil the wheat industry in Australia. There is no doubt that the action taken to reduce supply was not only responsible but a brave and necessary decision. 
That the Governments decided to adopt a quota system is now a matter of history but with the long term outlook in mind I think the action taken needs careful attention. Whilst there is no doubt that the imposition of quotas will have the effect of reducing the supply of wheat, I believe that the long term outlook of the industry could be jeopardised if the present system were retained for too long. I would be reluctant to see a situation arise where efficient producers were penalised in order to keep inefficient producers in production, or where those growing readily saleable wheat were penalised in order to retain in production those growing a type of wheat more difficult to sell. At the same time 1 think we must recognise, as the Government has recognised, that a very real human problem exists for those people on the land who have invested large sums, in both capital and human endeavour, in their properties. 
We need a system whereby the harsh effect of economic reality is slowed down to give people affected by industry overproduction of their product time to adjust to the changed circumstances. At the same time, the necessity for this adjustment must not be masked or excessively slowed by over-protective legislation. To avoid potentially harmful effects on the future of the wheat industry in Australia I believe that there is a strong case to be made for making quotas transferable. Nontransferable quotas have the effect of inhibiting the industry from adjusting to technical and economic changes, with the consequent effect of inefficient production and misallocation of resources. Non-transferable quotas ignore the fact that some producers have readily available alternatives to wheat growing whilst others have not. 
On the human level, those more dependent on wheat for their income would be less affected by the system if quotas were made transferable. They would be less restricted in the amount of wheat they could grow as they would have the opportunity to acquire additional quota allotments. Both economically and in welfare terms then I think transferable quotas would be beneficial. At the same time 1 believe the problem of surplus wheat could be more effec tively tackled if a more realistic price were agreed upon in allowing the Wheat Board to sell denatured wheat for stock feed and industrial purposes. To my mind the minimum prices are unrealistically high and serve to perpetuate the 'unofficial' wheat market at present operating across State borders. 
In the long term 1 believe that we should not be perpetually wedded to a quota system for wheat production. For one thing the costs of administration by the States of the quotas are known to be heavy. The main areas of extra costs have been brought about by transference of senior staff from their normal duties to quota administration duties; extra hiring of the Wheat Board computer; extra staff hires, both on a full time and a part time basis; and printing and stationery to maintain the extra records necessary. The Bill before the House recognises that these costs should be borne by the industry'. This is an extra cost that the industry could well do without. 
After the urgent, immediate problems of over-supply have been ameliorated, I believe the initial payment made to growers should be re-assessed with a view to its reduction. If it were reduced, the incentive to grow wheat, particularly to those who were the least efficient producers, would be greatly weakened. In addition, a more realistic price in comparison to world prices could be arrived at and a total production, without restraint, more closely attuned to demand would result. In other words the unwanted property of the scheme - that propensity to generate surpluses - would be curbed. Finally, I believe an urgent investigation should be undertaken to arrive at a system of grading which encourages the growing of readily saleable wheat whilst discouraging the production of those types facing a lesser demand. 
I also would like to mention briefly the concept that we should give our wheat away to those countries with ill fed people, both as a humanitarian gesture and as a means of ridding ourselves of our surpluses. Although weil intentioned this suggestion ignores some overriding facts. Firstly, while there are many semi-starving people in the world, in the main their dietary lack is protein and increased amounts of carbohydrate as supplied by wheat does little to alleviate their condition. Secondly, even if the wheat was given free of charge to such countries the freight charges alone would make the wheat more expensive to the final consumer than would be the cost if the wheat was grown in the country itself, particularly as the off-loading facilities and internal transportation networks of most underdeveloped countries are such that the physical problems of moving the wheat in any worthwhile quantity are insurmountable. 
In any discussion on wheat we should keep in mind always that it is - as with most of our agricultural production - a commodity which mostly has to be sold on the export market and therefore the amounts sold and the price received depend on factors largely beyond our control. In all our actions, therefore, the overall objective must be the healthy continuation of an industry capable of competing on world markets; an industry which has contributed, and will continue to contribute, provided sound and realistic policies are pursued, to the nation's economic welfare. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Has the Minister seen reports of a speech made yesterday by the honourable member for Sturt in which he stated that a so'dier sent to Vietnam who was killed in a mine accident last Saturday could not see more than 4 feet in front of him? Could the Minister confirm whether this allegation is correct? 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question. In view of recent criticism regarding the  advisability of Australia's building a nuclear power station will the Minister outline the industrial benefits in addition to the generation of electricity which he sees accruing to the Australian people from the erection and operation of the proposed nuclear power station? Will he also say why Jervis Bay was selected as the site for our first nuclear power station? 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. In view of the admitted aggression by North Vietnamese forces in Cambodia and South Vietnam, why is it that the Australian Government appears to be pursuing a different policy with respect to the 2 countries? In particular, why is it that Australian combat troops have not been assigned to Cambodia? 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the residents of the State of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our National Emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the Kangaroo. And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Warringah respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951) and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of 'films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Acting Minister for External Affairs whether, in view of the world wide importance of the Middle East peace talks and the avowed intention of the Palestinian guerillas to prevent the successful carrying on of peace negotiations, he could inform me of the present political and military situation obtaining in Jordan? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the Speakerand Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, in the discussion of the estimates of the AttorneyGeneral's Department, I wish to bring before the Parliament some aspects of community unrest which I believe are of the greatest importance. 1 wish to deal principally with student unrest. In doing so, I preface my remarks by quoting from the report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, specially appointed by  President  Johnson of the United States of America on 29th July 1967. In the introduction to Chapter 12 of the Commission's report, the following views are expressed: 
To analyse the complex social causes of disorder, to plumb the impact of generations of deprivation, to work for broad and sensitive efforts at prevention are vital tasks, but they are slow and difficult. 
When  in  the meantime, civil disorder breaks out, three simpler principles emerge. FIRST: Preserving civil peace is the first responsibility of Government. 
 Individuals cannot be permitted to endanger the public peace and safety and public officials have a duty to make it clear that all just and necessary means to protect both will be used. 
Our society is founded on the rule of law. That rule must prevail; without it, we will lack not only order but the environment essential to social and economic progress. 
SECOND: In maintaining the rule of law, we must be careful not to sacrifice it in the name of order. 
In our concent over civil disorder we must not mistake lawful protest for illegal activities. The guardians of the law are also subject to the law they serve. 
The Report then quotes from the American Federal Bureau of Investigation riot manual for law enforcement officers before dealing with its third stated principle, which is: 
Maintaining civil order is the responsibility of the entire community. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, although these views refer to the American situation, I believe that they have application in this country, and I would attest my belief particularly in that section which states that our society is founded upon the rule of law and, without that foundation, little meaningful progress can come. However, whilst I do believe this, I also believe that it is very necessary that we should examine the causes which provoke some sections of the community, particularly sections of the student community, to promote, assist and perpetrate actions designed to change the prevailing order of things by disregarding lawful process and, in fact, by taking the law into their own hands. Only by an understanding of the rationale adopted by members of such activist groups can we hope to establish and to maintain the vitally necessary communication between those in authority and those subject to that authority. 
First, it must be remembered that student unrest is neither new nor confined to any particular culture. The great European universities have a history studded with clashes between 'town' and 'gown', and these were no minor clashes either; lives were lost and property was extensively damaged. I would not argue for a moment, though, that conditions then and now are similar. In fact, they are markedly different. To amplify these remarks, I point out that -today we find that there are far more universities than there were previously and that that the individual university occupies a far more central position in our society than it ever did before. Universities have grown larger and more impersonal. The student-tutor relationship has largely broken down. Additionally, a greater percentage of the total population of young people now attends universities or other centres of advanced education. Even those who do not, by virtue of improved general education, can more readily empathise with students than was the case in the past. 
In many cases, students feel 'cut off' from society and forced to take part in a system that they feel to be too rigid and authoritarian. It is a system increasingly felt to be based on the requirement to prove capacity by the production of an appropriate degree or diploma with little regard for the true educative process or the relevance of. the attained certification to the maximisation of personal development. Student dissatisfaction takes many forms. But it is often centred on the meaning of the person and the social framework within which the individual operates. It is in the pursuit of answers to questions or actions sought in response to disquiet - often quite legitimate in themselves - that actions and proposals are followed which exceed and abuse that right to academic freedom so jealously guarded by the universities. I believe, that one of the most disquieting aspects of student unrest is that the tolerance of universities- -that tradition of free and open discussion, of contemplation and consideration of differing points of view - is being abused, in many cases by those very people and groups who complain so vociferously that free speech is being denied them. In the control of this abuse of tolerance, I believe that the university bodies themselves have the obligation to face and to overcome these problems themselves. The individual university cannot, in the words of one American writing on the subject: 'shirk the responsibility of protecting itself against the barbarians who betray the privileges extended to them'. 
I think that it is relevant also to consider that a significant proportion of the community - and todays students fall into this category - have been raised in a rapidly changing post war world whose standards, attitudes and beliefs are undergoing increasing scrutiny and alteration.  Mr Chairman,  this again is not new. Change has always taken place. But the rapidity of change has increased and, more particularly, will continue to increase. The very affluence of our. society has created the opportunity for younger people particularly to realise and to implement their abilities and their capacity to influence public reactions. Allied to this, and as a consequence changes such as the advent of television, the instantaneous nature of communications, the increased mobility both intranational and international, is the marked change in accepted values between the older and younger generations, leading to the so-called generation gap. This gap is in itself a product of the total insecurity brought about by the inability to adjust to rapid changes. This then leads to the situation in which we find ourselves today - and the dangers of the situation are, to my mind, very real. 

 Mr Chairman, we must make very clear to the extremists - of both sides - that the country and the Government must and will uphold the rule of law. This means protection of the individual and the protection of property. At the same time, we must indicate an understanding of different points of view, a capacity and a willingness to protect the right to legitimate protest and an appreciation of the fact that many people, particularly the younger segment of society, feel great and legitimate concern over aspects of our society that hitherto have been accepted largely without question. This requires open lines of communication and it is only by the establishment of effective communication between various sectors of the community and government that we will prevent a massive polarisation of society, a hardening of attitudes on both sides and a widening of the communications gap which could split and fragment this country. 
My question ls addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Last week on Thursday, 17th September, the Minister gave information on the increased national wages bill should unions' claims for 4 weeks annual leave be granted. In view of his answer I now ask him: Is it also true that many claims now being made by unions on behalf of some or all of their members seek a 35- hour week? If so, have any estimates been made of the added costs which would follow from a general 35-hour week? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not bold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise.  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
There is no doubt that arrangements for the provision and staffing of educational facilities within Australia have excited more comment and feeling within the community during the last 10 years than most other issues. Governments, both Federal and State, have felt and are still feeling the effects. Tt is safe to say that the Federal Government has received much of the criticism. It is obviously beyond the scope of this debate fully to investigate whether the blame apportioned to this Government has been more or less than a fair share, but I would like to raise a few points which I feel should be kept in mind by those people who continuously sheet home to the Government criticism of its efforts in the field of education. 
If one looks at the history of Commonwealth involvement in education one can see that expansion in this field began to a significant extent following the Second World War. After the defeat of the Australian Labor Party in 1949, the Commonwealth first made financial grants to the States for education in 1951. These grants were to assist universities with accommodation problems. But great acceleration in assistance came following the report of the Murray Committee on Australian universities in 1957. It is only fair to point out that the recommendations of that Committee for Commonwealth financial aid to the States on both capital and recurrent expenditure of the universities were largely adopted, as was the recommendation for the formation of an Australian Universities Commission. In subsequent years the Commonwealth has demonstrated increasingly its concern for the provision of adequate university facilities, and has demonstrated this to the tune of nearly $3 15m as the Commonwealth's share of a total provision of nearly $679m for capital and recurrent expenditure for the 1970-72 triennium. Let us add to this the part played by the Commonwealth in assisting the development of colleges of advanced education throughout Australia. Again, the Commonwealth has made provision for an expenditure of Commonwealth funds for capital and recurrent expenditure during the triennium, 1970-72, of more than SI 06m out of a total of approximately $236m. 
Une of the aspects of this Federal aid which pleases me personally is that during the current financial year funds will be provided for residential accommodation at colleges of advanced education in country areas. We are all aware of the need to provide incentives for people to live away from the overcrowded major cities. Such facilities as will be provided can only help this process. In the current financial year funds set aside for universities and colleges of advanced education total (113m, as against $95. 7m last financial year. The Commonwealth has set aside $19lm in total for specific purpose payments to the States. I remind honourable members that as recently as 1963-64 the total of direct grants to the States for education was only $34m. If one is fair minded, keeping in mind that the figures I have quoted also reflect that this financial year new financial agreements of great benefit to the States will operate - agreements which will channel an extra $291m to the States - one can see that much extra money is being made available for use by the States as they see fit. Personally, I hope that a significant proportion of this money will be devoted by the States to education. I think that the recent Budget brought down by the Premier of New South Wales illustrates that my hope may be well founded. 
The Commonwealth Department of Education and Science is concerned with many more activities than I have outlined - activities which, to my mind, are often forgotten by critics of the Government. The contribution to teacher education, preschool education, the child migrant education programme, student assistance by means of the expanded Commonwealth Scholarships schemes - we have already mentioned that this afternoon - and assistance for Aboriginal students are examples of this. If one looks at the figures one sees that total direct Commonwealth expenditure on education has risen from $54,500,000 in 1961-62 to an estimated $3 12m this year. Expressed as a percentage of the total Commonwealth Budget expenditure, it has risen from 1.9 per cent to 4.4 per cent over the same years. I think it would have been much fairer if the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  had outlined this increase in the percentage of expenditure as a percentage of the total Budget expenditure. 
Under the circumstances I believe that while much still remains to be done this Government has shown a consistent interest in and concern with the problems of education and has sought, within the bounds of its responsibilities and particularly over the last few years, to alleviate the problems of those with the responsibility of providing educational facilities to a rapidly expanding number of students. I do noi want to pretend for a moment that everything in the garden is rosy, but I do think it is worthwhile to point to the genuine efforts that are being made. I would like now to deal briefly with the nationwide Survey of Educational Needs undertaken by the Australian Education Council whose report has led to much criticism of the Federal Government. The initial report was first presented to the Education Council meeting in Perth during the latter part of February this year. Because of some differences in approach by the various States in estimating costs it was amended, and the amended figures were presented to the Federal Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in May of this year. At that time it was agreed that before any action should be taken the individual State Ministers should present the results of the survey to their own Premiers, while the Federal Minister agreed to present the survey .to Cabinet. At this time talks were proceeding between the Federal and State governments concerned with CommonwealthState financial relations. The results of the survey were considered in this context. 
I mention this because the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has been accused of brushing aside representations made by the States, based on the findings of this survey. That is a serious allegation, I believe, because education is to me such a vitally important consideration for the community. The allegation is untrue and must be exposed as such for the following reasons: Firstly, as the report on the survey states, the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science, while giving the survey every encouragement from the outset, also asked that private schools be included in the survey because only in this way could an accurate picture of total educational needs in the nation be obtained. The survey presented does not as yet contain the estimate for private schools and so is incomplete. Secondly, and more importantly, the survey based its figures, when estimating the educational expenditure required by the States during the period 1971-75 together with the additional funds necessary, on the previously existing Commonwealth-State financial relationships. These arrangements, as every Premier knows, were no longer operative at the time when the representations were made to the Prime Minister. 
The survey in its estimate of total expenditure listed costed requirements as $7,960.4m, and anticipated funds - these were based on the old financial arrangement - as $6,5l6.7m, leaving a shortfall of $l,443.7m. This figure of $6,5 16.7m following the new arrangement was obviously incorrect, as the States would presumably now be able to meet more of their commitments than before. 
Not only marginally so. Under these circumstances the Prime Minister, quite rightly, I believe, asked the States for their own reactions to the survey, together with an assessment of the requirements of the private schools. The Commonwealth would then be in a position to make more fully informed judgments. People may say - and they have said this afternoon - that this procedure is designed to thwart the States in their claims for assistance. But when the figures of the magnitude expressed are involved and when it is appreciated that substantial sums have recently been made available, both directly and indirectly, I believe that the procedure followed is not only necessary but highly desirable. That there are problems in secondary education - and major problems at that - is all too obvious. One of the most serious aspects of the total problem concerns the staffing of secondary schools. On this matter I am much in agreement with the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  It is all very well to talk about new classrooms, libraries, science blocks, visual aids and a host of other material things, but these are rendered largely redundant if the teachers are not present to staff the classrooms, teach the sciences or utilise the educational aids. 
The staffing problem has many facets. Although the number of teachers has risen dramatically there are still not enough. Many of the teachers who are teaching are insufficiently trained. The turnover in teaching staff at individual schools is often far too high and can only have a detrimental effect both on the teacher and on the pupils. Some disciplines such as mathematics and science have a serious, almost chronic, shortfall in adequately trained staff. While individual State education departments have done much to increase their student-teacher numbers, much mon will have to be done. It has been estimated that, should the rate of increase in enrolments experienced between 1966 and 1968 persist, we can expect a total population in Government secondary schools by 1972 of about 800,000 pupils. For a class size of no more than 35 in the lower secondary school and of no more than 30 at the senior level, an additional 10,000 teachers will be needed, and this figure could be an underestimate. 
Although the lack of staff is a serious problem, merely to increase the numbers of teachers is not enough. Clearly there is a great need to attract more highly trained people into the teaching profession, to reduce the amount of teacher mobility, to provide more personally rewarding conditions of employment and to provide a readily visible means of salary progression. Whilst salaries for teachers vary between States. I do feel that more attention could be paid to the monetary rewards for teachers who have spent some time in the profession and who have attained positions of authority. I find myself in agreement with R. T. Fitzgerald of the Australian Council for Educational Research, who states in his book 'Secondary Schools at Sixes and Sevens': 
Any long term progressive improvement in the quality of the secondary teaching force will depend essentially on the image of the classroom teacher's role and function. Increasingly the secondary school in Australia will have to compete with tertiary institutions particularly the Colleges of Advanced Education for qualified and experienced staff. In terms of salaries and working conditions, the secondary school remains at a distinct disadvantage. It may be one thing to attract talented people to classroom teaching but quite another to retain their services in the secondary school. 
I have mentioned only one of the many problems facing those concerned with the administration of educational facilities. The total task is a huge and growing one and I believe that there is a very good case for a national examination of the administration and organisation of the total educational sphere from the pre-school level to the tertiary level. This must occur if we are to continue to develop within Australia the undoubted talents of our young people. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. I refer to a resolution adopted by the annual convention of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party that the Department of Immigration should operate a more effective system of screening and selection to limit the arrival of undesirable migrants. Would the Minister comment on this resolution and indicate- 
I preface my question which is to the Minister for Immigration by referring to a resolution adopted by the annual convention of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party that the Department off Immigration should operate a more effective system of screening and selection in order to limit the arrival of undesirable migrants. In view of this resolution will the Minister inform me of what the present selection procedures involve? 
Although some few people outside this chamber have put the point of view that Australia's population should ideally be stabilised at around 13 to 15 million people, there seems little doubt that for this country to become economically balanced a population in excess of 20 million is necessary. The fact that Australia was under-populated and was in a situation where tremendous reliance had to be placed on the rural sector of the economy to supply overseas earnings for the nation was recognised a long time ago. Obviously, if the nation was to develop, more people were needed to do the work. The manufacturing sector of the economy had to be expanded and expanded rapidly if a more balanced economy was to be achieved. As we all know, manufacturing industries are labour intensive and hence we needed people, both skilled and unskilled, to develop an effective labour force. For these and other reasons we have had a sustained immigration programme since the end of the Second World War. There were obviously many reasons for bringing people to Australia. Amongst the chief of them was the concept of building a population as an immediate aid to the nation's security. 
I believe that this aspect of immigration policy was a valid one, and still is, though perhaps to a lesser extent today when military technology has, to a certain degree at least, overcome the advantages previously enjoyed by sheer numbers of people. We, as a rich nation with a small population, must seek to defend ourselves not only by building numbers of people but by development and utilisation of the most up to date technology, with the emphasis, 1 believe, on the technology, in this respect, of course, as the population grows our resources in terms of manpower and brain power grow, and this will be reflected in technological developments. However, it is in the increase of our economic strength that the immigration policy has had its most easily measurable impact. As preceding speakers have said, since 1945 over 2.6 million settlers would have come to this country and these 2.6 million people have obviously contributed greatly to the nation's work force. Many people, quite rightly 1 believe, have asked how much they actually have contributed. 
If I can give a measurement of this contribution, in 1968-69 out of a total Australian work force of 5.27 million people about 1.3 million were migrants. Obviously such a proportion shows thai their total contribution to our gross national product is considerable, and without them we can be absolutely certain that the major advances that have been made in developing the manufacturing and other sectors of the economy could not have been achieved. 
But there are other benefits as well, as other speakers have said. We should all be aware that as a population increases in size the per capita cost of goods and services is reduced. Economies of scale in industry also become apparent. People speak, quite rightly, about the cost of bringing settlers to Australia, but we must always remember that a significant proportion of migrants are classified as skilled or semiskilled personnel and their settling here has been estimated to save Australia $US8,000 per average worker in preemployment training. In addition, cultural benefits have also been derived from our immigration policy. There is no doubt that Australia was - and still is to a certain extent - a rather insular place cut off from easy access to the rest of the world. Now, of course, rapid and increased transport facilities have cut down our insularity. But migrants to Australia, by the introduction of aspects of vastly differing cultures, have contributed enormously towards the development of a more cosmopolitan society in Australia, and this has been of tremendous benefit. 
That there are problems and costs associated with the immigration scheme nobody denies, and I would like to look at some of the criticisms that have been raised, lt has been said that not enough use has been made of many skilled personnel who emigrate to Australia and I believe that in some cases this is and has been the case. In many instances though the situation is brought about either because the use of the skill requires a level of expertise in the English language which is not possessed by the immigrant or else not enough is known or accepted with respect to convertibility of qualifications gained outside Australia. To overcome these problems it is very pleasing to see the emphasis being placed on language education and, in fact, on migrant education in general. Honourable members will remember that on 23 rd April this year the Minister announced details of expenditure involving Si 6m over the next 4 financial years to be used in migrant education. I am sure that this money will be very well spent. Only good can come from this emphasis on education as people from widely differing social, cultural, political and ethnic backgrounds face the task of assimilating the social institutions of their new. country. This must not be a one-way process though, as there is still a tremendous need for the Australian community as a whole to gain a more knowledgeable attitude and fuller appreciation of the problems immigrants face and the ways in which migrants* contributions to this country's future can be realised. This requires a degree of involvement, interest and support from all sections of our community. 
I believe that before this atmosphere can permeate right through this community people must be convinced that the benefits of our migration programme, both individual and collective, outweigh the stresses and strains already being felt in our full employment economy. I mention the convertibility of qualifications and I believe it is to the credit of the Department of Labour and National Service that it has undertaken the task of compiling a guide to European technical qualifications and their approximate equivalent here, lt is also a tribute to the Department of Immigration that in 1969 it established a committee on overseas professional qualifications. I hope that these guides will be accepted readily by unions and institutions throughout Australia so that those cases of misallocation of human resources which do occur can be curtailed. There are some other aspects of our immigration policy which have disturbed me in the past but I believe that steps which have recently been taken will do much to overcome criticism. I firmly believe our immigration policy should be based on the needs of this country, the availability of suitable migrants and the capacity of the Australian community to integrate migrants into our society. This integration should occur in such a way as to ensure the maximum return in human and economic terms, not only to the Australian society but also to the migrant families. 
This requires that personnel employed at our overseas selection centres should be equipped and trained to promulgate an accurate picture of Australian conditions to ensure that intending migrants do not get a false impression of this country and the conditions they are likely to experience when they arrive here. It also requires that the selection procedures for migrants should be such as to reduce to a minimum selection of undesirable migrants or those who would experience untoward difficulty in assimilating into the society of this country. I think that the Government should make it very clear that it is not interested in breaking records with respect to the acquisition of migrants. Rather, it should reiterate a policy of selection based on human considerations and individual merit. Our capacity to integrate migrants with benefit to the total society has been well documented, but I believe it would be wrong not to question just how many additional people are needed. It would be wrong not to question what particular skills or qualifications are in short supply; whether there is a danger of developing ethnic groups within major cities, cut off from and falling behind the mainstream of Australian society by educational or language barriers; whether our educational, health and housing facilities are being dangerously over strained; and whether we are, in fact, as a community doing all we can to derive the maximum mutual benefit from our migration programme. 
I believe the Department of Immigration is aware of these problems and by the provision of migrant educational services, social workers, welfare officers, trained contact workers, together with a host of voluntary workers, it does much to reduce the problems of migrants in this country. The work of the various Good Neighbour Councils tn this respect is noteworthy. I congratulate the Department on its instigation of research into a number of fields concerned with migration. Research into desirable future population levels together with the structure and distribution of the population within Australia can only be of great assistance in assessing desirable levels of immigration. A cost-benefit analysis of immigration and time span surveys of migrants during their early years will provide much needed back-up data and disclose avenues for further initiative in the selection and integration of settlers. The appointment of authorities on urbanisation and environment to the Migration Planning Council can only add to the effectiveness of this Council and, together with the Immigration Advisory Council and the Immigration Publicity Council, it will act as a source of good advice to this Government. The approach adopted by the Minister and his Department, particularly the efforts quantitatively and qualitatively to assess the selection procedures, desirable intake levels, assimilation procedures, and contribution of new settlers will do much to answer the questions of those who view our immigration policy with some suspicion. I endorse the approach and look forward to the results of the investigations with much interest. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth. 
Whereas - 
It has now been recognised that students as members of the University Community have a role and contribution in the making of University policies and decisions. 
The Council of the Australian National University is the highest decision-making body and the final authority for the determination of policy within that University. 
The University Council has approved the request of students and recommended to the Government that two elected undergraduates and the  President  of the Students' Association be members of that Council. 
The Government has only agreed to add the  President  of the Students' Association to the existing one undergraduate representative on the Council. 
The workload involved, the representation required, and the acknowledged necessity for continuity at Council level, demand that at least two elected undergraduates in addition to the  President  of the Students' Association, represent the Student Body on the Council. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A further undergraduate representative on the Council of the Australian National University. 
And yon petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I join with other honourable members tonight in raising a matter concerning section 1 14 of the Broadcasting and Television Act, which states that the licensees of commercial television stations are required, as far as possible, to use the services of Australians in the production and presentation of their programmes. Honourable members would be aware that since 1960 there have been requirements in the legislation designed to give meaning to the provision I have just mentioned. One requirement is that a specified percentage of programmes will be of Australian origin - this is, of course, now 50 per cent - and that during popular viewing times not less than a specified minimum of Australian programmes will be televised. This later requirement has progressively increased from 4 hours a 4-week period in 1960 to 18 hours a 4- week period in 1969. In addition, requirements which were introduced 
In 1967 specified that television stations should televise an aggregate of at least 2 hours of drama as part of the 18 hours a 4-week period. I note that the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1970 states, when discussing these matters: 
The Board regards the production and presentation of Australian drama as particularly important. It has been strongly represented that steady development of this part of Australian programming is essential to the proper training of the country's resources of writers, producers, directors, actors and technical staff in the Television Industry. 
The report goes on to say that there is concern over the stability of the drama section of the entertainment industry, a stability necessary to ensure a steady improvement in both quality and quantity of production and also that the Board is currently reviewing its Australian content requirement. On the face of it, the Australian content requirements appear to be sound and reasonable. 
Whilst one would hesitate to interfere with the rights of commercial television channels to decide what types of programmes they wish to present, how much they should spend on the programmes and where they should acquire the programmes, I believe that there is a good case to be made for the proposition that Australian television stations should present a balanced total programme which not only presents material portraying the life, customs and cultural mores of other countries, but which also presents material which reflects similar aspects of Australia's national ethos. Only by so doing can the viewing public be exposed to a representative sample of life styles and cultural influences. 
I believe the Broadcasting Control Board and the management of television stations agree with this proposition that Australian television stations have almost a moral obligation to foster local talent which after all should contribute significantly to the total cultural influences operating within this country. Should this talent not be sufficiently fostered, then culturally we are forced towards becoming totally imitative and I believe this to be undesirable. Having said this, we should look to see whether the policy of the Board is producing a desirable result. 
I believe that whilst they are certainly a step in the right direction, the requirements I have already outlined do contain some aspects which lend themselves to close scrutiny to see how they are actually assisting and encouraging local talent. The requirement is for 50 per cent of total programmes to be of Australian origin - and before dealing with this I noted in the report that 4 of the 15 metropolitan commercial television stations did not reach that percentage. But to make up that 50 per cent requirement, various loadings are used which, through their provision, mean that the actual percentage of programmes of Australian . origin is much less. For example, programmes designated as being indigenous Australian drama are rated at 200. per cent - in other words, for every hour of viewing time, the station is credited with 2 hours of Australian content. Not only this, but if an indigenous drama programme . is re-run - in other words has done nothing to contribute further to the well-being and future of the Australian entertainment industry - it is again credited with a 200 per cent contribution, and there are at least 3 Australian productions being re-run and recredited at the moment. 
We therefore have 2 questions which need careful attention. The first is: Should indigenous drama productions be credited with twice their running time in the first place? I doubt the wisdom of this. Secondly, should they be re-credited with twice their running time every time they are re-run? 
With respect to this latter question I think this proposition is unwise and difficult to defend, simply because in rerunning the programmes the intention of the requirement - that is. to stimulate and foster local talent - is not being met. 
Other Australian drama productions are credited with one and a half times their actual duration - and children's programmes which are designed and produced in Australia in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Television Programme Standards again receive credit for twice the actual duration. Obviously the questions directed to the crediting of indigenous drama productions apply to these programmes also. There is another provision which further works against the 
Australian industry, and this is the provision that if programmes are produced in British Commonwealth countries they will receive credit as if they were Australian programmes for half their actual duration with a maximum credit of 5 per cent in any 28 day period. 
Although I have not seen any actual figures, the number of British shows alone being shown on commercial television leads me to believe that the full 5 per cent must be taken up. This then means that, apart from anything else, Australian produced programmes would occupy only 45 per cent of programme time. I wonder how many Commonwealth countries - particularly Britain - encourage Australian television shows on their stations in a similar way. The type of programme also is of great significance. At present the legislation requires that at least 2 hours of Australian drama must be included in the 18 hours of Australian content during the peak viewing times of the 4-week periods. .1 believe that this requirement also should be questioned with a view to an increase in the requirement. It is accepted that dramatic productions utilise many more people, in the form of writers, directors, producers, actors, etc., than do activities such as sports telecasts. Whilst not wishing to denigrate for one moment the role and popularity of programmes featuring sporting events, I think it can be fairly argued that such programmes do not provide a full measure of cultural influence for the viewing public. These are aspects which the Board in its review is no doubt giving full consideration. There are many others also requiring investigation, such as the proposition to introduce some form of tariff protection for local television production, or the proposal that a certain percentage of the total financial outlay of Australian commercial television stations should be spent in Australia. 
The essential thing is that there appear to be good grounds for the complaints by the local television entertainment industry that an insufficient slice of the large financial cake which keeps our television stations' programmes going, is being retained in Australia. If one agrees that a strong, economic local entertainment industry - I use 'entertainment industry' in its broadest sense - should be our aim, then the complaints should be examined as quickly as possible and adjustments in the requirements, if found to be necessary, put into effect. I would hope also that once the examination at present being conducted into these matters is concluded, a complete account of the examination and the reasons supporting the various recommendations will be made available so that everyone will have the benefit of a meaningful assessment of the recommendations. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the utterly reprehensible actions pursued by the separatist terrorist movement in Canada and the measures taken by the Canadian Prime Minister to deal with the situation I ask the Attorney-General: Do similar powers exist in Australia and in what circumstances could they be invoked. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport, I would like to look mainly at freight costs and more particularly at freight costs as they affect the total cost of production of the primary producers of this country. I will not attempt to look at the position of the manufacturing industries and the effect of freight costs on their costs of production, considerable though they may be. But because I believe that freight charges play such a part in the ever-increasing problems faced by primary producers - these primary producers already being affected by slackening world demand, over-production in some cases, inflated home prices for goods and services, and always subject to the vagaries of climate - in the time available I wish to examine freight cost effects on this at present disadvantaged sector of our community more closely. lt is hardly necessary to point out that, despite our mineral boom and the growth of the manufacturing sector of the economy, approximately half of our total export income is still derived from the sale overseas of our primary produce, lt also bears repeating that the wool industry still contributes over $700m annually to the economy. It seems a strange paradox that many of the people who contribute so much to national wellbeing should at the moment not be sharing that wellbeing. One of the factors contributing greatly to the primary producer's progressive loss of parity with other self-employed sectors ot the community is the effect of costs. These costs in many cases are forced on the primary producer from souces over which he has little control. Such things as wages and the prices of manufactured articles which he must use if he is to continue in production come to mind. An important area of concern over which he has little or no control are freight costs. 
It is very difficult to assess the extent of freight costs on total agricultural costs because of the lack of authoritative data relating to production costs of the various agricultural commodities. However, if we look at some of our main agricultural products, we can see a startling picture emerging. Let us look firstly at wool. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  speaking earlier this year said: 
There can be no doubt of the critical significance of external transport costs to the wool industry. 
These are of the order of SI 50m a year or about $25 to $30 per bale, according to destination. 
He said also: 
Conventional costs associated with the handling and transport of wool overseas represent not less than 20 per cent of the averaged realised price for wool. 

 Dr John Skinner, Manager of the International Wool Secretariat's Wool Handling Services Department, in January of this year quoted a similar figure to that of the Minister when he assessed the average cost of handling and transporting a bale of wool from the farm in Australia to the overseas mill in the United Kingdom or northern Europe at about $28 a bale. Both  Dr Skinner  and the Minister made their assessments before the new wool shipping freight charges were announced. The effect of these is, of course, to accentuate the problem. 
But there are several interesting aspects of the statement.  Dr Skinner  looked at the various stages in the wool journey and assessed the position for a single bale of wool as follows: Approximately $6 from farm to broker's door, approximately $7 in the store, including the broker's commission and the buyer's commission, approximately $4.50 from broker's store into ship, approximately $9 for delivery by ship to overseas port, and approximately $1.50 from the ship to the United Kingdom mill. This shows that a significant proportion of the total handling and transport costs occur on land, and the major part is at the Australian end. Add to this the fact that shipping costs have risen, and include the fact that for insurance purposes wool tops in containers are rated as deck cargo and are therefore at higher than ordinary rates. At the same time the average price of wool has fallen, to an extremely low level at the moment, and the proportion of freight costs to average realised price now rises to around 30 per cent or above. However, this is not the end of the story because not only does the producer have to pay handling and freight costs on his produce, but also he has to pay handling and freight costs on items such as drenches, dips, machinery parts and a host of other production factors necessary for him to produce his goods. If these costs are added into the total, handling and transport costs - both coming and going, as it were - assume even more significance. 
The position is similar for other rural products. With respect to wheat, for instance, the transport costs expressed as a percentage of gross value of production in 1966-67 were assessed at an average of 11.1 per cent over all States. The figure would obviously vary within and between States but again a significant percentage of total costs are consumed in freight charges. The figures that I have just mentioned do not take into account farm to silo freight costs. 1 have not been able to obtain transport costs for other products but if we look at marketing costs - which include freight, cost of containers, commission and other charges involved in marketing - figures compiled from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics publications, Value of Production Bulletin and Primary Industries Bulletin show not only fluctuations from season to season but also a general upward trend. I realise, of course, that freight rates are not controlled by the Commonwealth Government, except those of Commonwealth Railways and the Australian National Shipping Line, whilst the State governments control the main domestic carriers of Australian primary produce, the State railways. 
The activities of individual road transport operators are also of great importance. To illustrate this point, and once again referring to wool, we find the situation occurring where a road transport quote for a bale of wool from Cowra to Sydney, which is a distance of just over 200 miles, is $3.78. This amount includes $1.43 for road tax. Rail rates from Cowra to Sydney are also $3.78 a bale but it costs an extra 50c a bale to get the wool to the railhead. In other words, the total charge is $4.28 a bale. Poignancy is given to these figures when one finds that the quote for each bale of wool transported to Melbourne from Cowra by road, which is a distance of about 450 miles, is $2.50, or roughly half as much for twice the distance. This is not an unusual case. The cost per bale by rail from Binalong to Sydney, which is again around 200 miles, is $4.18 plus 50c for cartage to the railhead. This makes a total of 84.68. The quote per bale for road haulage from Binalong to Melbourne, which is about 360 miles, is $2.68. 
I note also that the road maintenance tax collected in New South Wales in 1968 totalled $12.6m. It cost $1.2m to collect this tax. The State co-ordination tax in New South Wales in 1965 brought in $4.4m but to collect this tax, cost SI. 4m which is roughly 30 per cent of the total tax collected. It is obvious that in a country as large as Australia, with the sparse population density in country areas, worthwhile and sustained attention must be given to lowering the present freight costs it primary producers are to survive. For this reason ( am particularly pleased that the Bureau of Transport Economics has been established. The main functions of this organisation are outlined as being  to  study and report on the cost of transport operations in Australia, to suggest measures which will reduce transport costs and to develop proposals for providing a reliable, safe, fast national transport system for primary producers, manufacturers, exporters, workers and passengers. I am glad to note that emphasis is placed on Commonwealth-State co-operation. It seems to me that it would be extremely regrettable if the inquiry, research, recommendations and their implementation were in any way hindered by parochialism or narrow-minded thinking. Not only must this important work be supported and expedited; its success is essential and would provide an example of co-operative federalism in its best form. 
It is interesting to see the Opposition, in the form of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  putting forward a definite matter of public importance dealing with environmental pollution because it illustrates once again the Labor Party's notorious capacity for jumping onto whatever the current political bandwagon happens to be. One of the problems of living in a modern developing society which seems to have escaped the honourable member for Reid is that the very development of that society brings with it problems of environmental pollution. I believe it is one of the heartening features of modern society that concern is being felt to an ever increasing degree and attention is being paid to the causes, extent and solution of the problems of environmental disturbance. There is no doubt that pollution is widespread. It is not, of course, merely a national but an international problem. Within Australia there are many examples of environmental pol lution and to me one of the most fascinating, and probably one of the most disturbing aspects of Thor Heyerdahl's transAtlantic raft trip was his observation that the Atlantic was so polluted by oil that at various times it was impossible to swim. 
We in Australia are fortunate. Because the country is still relatively sparsely populated and less industrialised than most other nations at a similar level of economic development, we can undertake corrective action relatively more easily than many other nations can. But the problem is one of balance because, in fact, we do want and expect the benefits of a modern industrialised society and we cannot have these benefits without some disturbance to the natural environment. Whenever people come together in cities, wherever goods are manufactured and wherever and however people travel, problems of environmental disturbance arise. Of course, the greater the concentration of people, the greater the demand for consumer goods and the greater the development of technology and industry, the greater the amount of environmental disturbance. It is obvious that we cannot live in this world and totally avoid any alteration of our environment. What we must ensure is that in altering this environment we do not destroy our capacity to live healthily or in aesthetically satisfying conditions. To achieve these ends requires an appreciation of the problems involved both by governments and by the population as a whole. In order to achieve the desired results there must be meaningful legislation based on objective criteria, and this is something which the Opposition tends to forget. It is terribly easy to jump on to one of these bandwagons and say we must do something and we must do it quickly. Before any action can be taken this action should be based on some measured criteria. 
You have only just thought of it. It is not enough for governments to legislate in this direction: it really does require the co-operation of the public in carrying out any introduced measures. These things we are speaking of today do not come without any cost. It is pretty easy to say that the Government should be doing this and that, but there is a cost attached to these things and I do not say for a moment that this cost should be avoided. 
It costs a heap of money to reduce environmental pollution and these costs must be met by somebody and they must be met out of the taxpayers' pockets. So before we jump onto this pollution bandwagon let us be quite certain that the people know that any measures taken will cost money and they will have to pay for them. The Opposition today seeks to suggest that the Government is unaware of the problems of environmental pollution. This is patently absurd. In the 'Australian' of 26th October 1970 - I do not think anybody would accuse the 'Australian' of being a pro-Government newspaper - the editorial reads: 
Federal Cabinet is at last turning its attention to the problem of what the national government should do to help in the fight against all forms of pollution. It has taken its time to get round to action after making a promising start. 
Here is the crunch: 
It showed considerable foresight in recognising pollution as a potential trouble area long before it became a 'popular' subject. 
This gets back to what I said about jumping on political bandwagons. Already we have seen Senate select committees set up on water pollution and air pollution. We have had select committees of this House set up to inquire into aircraft noise and, this year, into wildlife conservation. I am a member of that committee and can say for all its members, no matter what their party, that the complexity of the problem is only now really starting to be brought out. When we meet and talk to representatives of government, representatives of manufacturing interests and representatives of the public, the complexity of the problem is shown to be immense. Obviously, any precipitate action could only worsen the problem. 
This Government is actively co-operating with State governments in investigations aimed at safeguarding the environment. The co-operation between this Government and the Queensland Government in investigating the threat posed by the crown of thorns starfish to the Great Barrier Reef is particular evidence of this. It would be very easy to over-react to questions concerned with environmental disturbance. No-one denies the importance of these for a moment but it is necessary to point to the complexity of the problems involved. This Government, as any responsible govern ment should, recognises both the importance and the complexity of the issues involved and the Government's performance has been praised. I again refer to the editorial in the 'Australian': 
What is most significant and praiseworthy about the proposals the Government is to consider is that they do not appear to represent a piecemeal approach. As the air pollution committee reported more than 13 months ago, 'in any future arrangements for the study of pollution problems, cognisance should be taken of the total environment and the interaction of the different facets of what is virtually one problem'. 
I believe that action has been and is being taken to refute the allegation of inaction referred to in the matter before the House and reveals instead a responsible Government's attitude to problems of great magnitude and lasting importance. Here I would agree with the honourable member for Reid that these problems are of great importance and of deep significance to the future of this country and the people in it. But the point of the whole thing is that we are all, on both sides of the House and in all Parties, agreed that the problems of environmental pollution are great ones which are  worthy  of deep and close attention. There is a danger that over-reaction could take place and I think that any responsible Government should do as this one has done, investigate the problem, realise that it is part of a total overall environmental problem, and act accordingly. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to reports in various newspapers yesterday concerning the agreement alleged to have been reached with the New South Wales State Government for transfer of Sydney Harbour foreshore land to the State Government. Have details of the transfer been finalised, and if so are there any conditions which would preclude future alienation of the land by a State government for nonrecreational purposes? 
As the honourable member for . Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said, the Bill before the House deals with several changes to be made in amending the Australian National University Act. I want to speak on only one aspect of the proposed amendments, namely, that amendment dealing with the proposal to increase the size of the Council of the University from 38 to 41 members. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the division of Warringah respectfully sheweth: 
That they ave not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fac-l that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the. rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent lo all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned- 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the State for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education service which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address to the Minister for the Navy a question relating to the oil spillage which occurred, during refuelling operations, at Chowder Bay in Sydney Harbour last week. Can the Minister inform me what caused the spillage, when the delivery pipe was installed and when was it last tested, what measures were taken to reduce the effects of the pollution, and what further measures will be taken to minimise any such future occurrences? 
I would like to join a lot of other honourable members on both sides of this House in congratulating the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I congratulate him on  2  counts: Firstly, for his decision to provide the opportunity for a debate on censorship, which -I consider is a.. topic of great importance to all people, in the community, whether , they are aware of it or not  -  I believe many are not aware of the true implications of it - and, secondly, for the substance of his statement. I believe that the debate is important because it has provided an opportunity for members to put forward ideas, and suggestions which presumably reflect their own and. to a certain extent at least, their elector's viewpoints with respect to attitudes towards  censorship.  I  except horn  that statement the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Maribymong  (Dr Cass).  I wonder whether they in fact reflected the viewpoints of their electors. Obviously' no consent can be reached by al) sectors of the community or all representatives in this House on what is the ultimate in policies at this stage. But to my mind this is not at all important. What is important is that discussion has taken place on a question where subjective judgments only can be made, and this in a very real sense is a worth while example of democratic government. 
What has been sought is an opportunity to articulate and have expressed different points of view. This debate has provided an example for those in the community who would doubt the wisdom, purpose and existence of democracy in this country. It has provided an example of the proposition that democratic equality is not an equality of sameness but of difference. This is based on the assumption that people can agree on a common action which nevertheless leaves each to lead his own life. If we are to seek this common action on issues of subjective judgment we must seek to encourage discussion in which extreme views can be eliminated and the principles of tolerance and recognition of differences be combined with an insistence that individual views be submitted to the criticism of open discussion. To my mind this must not be a once and for all discussion in which positions once taken are maintained despite changing public 'attitudes. Censorship involves actions which prohibit or prevent open access- of the public to material deemed to be of a positively unwelcome nature- - unwelcome for .various reasons. Public attitudes to what is welcome or unwelcome vary vertically and horizontally on any time scale. My broad attitude is that if public censorship of any type is to be imposed -  1  think at this point in human social development there must be some forms of public censorship - it must be under virtually constant review and of a flexible nature.  1  have taken the view that at this stage there should be public censorship and I have done so largely because I believe that the community and individuals within the community are not ready for or desirous of complete lack of censorship. Lack of censorship assumes that each individual is capable of making his own decisions about what he will see, read or hear or how he will act. Naturally enough I have a lot of sympathy for this point of view but I would point out, as other honourable members have pointed out, that children cannot logically be considered to have this capacity. If we accept this proposition it may be argued that it is the responsibility of the parent to direct or guide what his child shall see, hear or read or how the child will act. Again I am in agreement with this point of view. But  1  have  2  reservations about its implementation. Firstly, for a goodly proportion of his waking hours after he has reached school age, the child is largely outside the direct control of the parents. He is thus at the mercy of or exposed to the rest of society. If a section of that society has standards of a nature considered grossly undesirable by the rest of society, without some form of censorship the child can unwittingly be exposed to unwelcome material. The only way for the parent to overcome this problem would be to move from that society where no censorship . of any kind for anybody prevailed.  I believe that very few parents would want such a situation to develop. Most parents impose standards for their children - standards of action and standards relating to the material which they can see, read or hear - and I believe most parents would like their elected represen-tatives to help them to maintain these community standards. 
My second reservation is brought about due to the fact that without censorship of some kind nobody has any prior - knowledge of what to expect when buying a book or seeing a film. A censorship imposed on oneself is possible only when one has some knowledge of the possible content of what one is likely to see, hear or buy. A person can choose what he considers to be suitable material for his children to see or to hear only if he has some method by which he can judge the relevant material without actually hearing it, seeing it or reading it himself. This second reservation applies not only to parents but to everybody in the community. A selfimposed censorship is possible only where one has the opportunity physically to remove oneself from an undesirable situation or where some rating of material has been undertaken and a broad pre-choice is thus available to the individual. Honourable members may think that the first possibility is almost universal but in fact if there were no censorship of things like advertisements on billboards or buses, or if people were allowed to shout what they liked in public places, it would be very difficult to - escape from such situations. The second proposition is, 1 believe, obvious. 
These are not the only points in favour of some degree of public censorship but they are points which I believe have not been stressed in this debate. I have argued for a degree of censorship and in doing so 1 would like to make the following points, which agree broadly but not completely with current Government policy. The first point is . that I believe that the best censorship and that to be most encouraged is censorship imposed by oneself on oneself. The second point is that where censorship is to be imposed to maintain the public good, that censorship should be imposed only after critical discussion where an informed and varied public opinion is canvassed and expressed. To my mind this is best done by some form of board or tribunal, the members of which represent as widely as possible differing community attitudes as well as expert opinion. 1 believe this representation to be of immense importance. There should be access for interested persons to the deliberations of such a body. In other words, I am arguing for critical discussion. My third point is that there should be a method of appeal against censorship decisions. The fourth point is that there should be a constant revision of past censorship decisions, testing them in the light of current practice and current opinion. My fifth point is that there should be some effective method of ranking the material considered by the censors so that members of the public may have some realistic yardstick for prejudging the probable content of released material. 
There is only one surety about censorship and that is that community attitudes to what is or is not considered offensive will change. We have had numerous examples of this during the debate. To a certain extent, however, community attitudes will be shaped by censorship, and herein lies the danger. The essential thing is to have the machinery of censorship so structured as to prevent the censoring body from ossifying in its attitudes and thereby creating an ever widening gap between the creative members of the community and the community in general. Should this fixation of attitudes occur the creative talents of the community may be actively discouraged and at the same time the cultural horizons of the community at large restricted. The end point is cultural socialism - a mediocrity brought about by the reduction of cultural influences available to the public to the lowest common denominator of community acceptance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of recent newspaper reports indicating that the military operation conducted by South Vietnamese forces in Laos is largely unsuccessful, can the Minister inform the House as to the present assessment of that operation? Can he also inform the House with respect to reports of increased road building activity by the Chinese and the North Vietnamese in Laos and indicate whether those activities are regarded by non-Communist countries in Indo-China as constituting a direct threat to their security and further evidence of Comunist aggressive intent and practice? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  in sitting here I have found some difficulty in trying to draw any correlation between the remarks of the 2 Opposition members who have spoken and the matter which is allegedly before us for discussion. Let me read the terms of the matter of public importance which has been raised so that everybody will be clear as to what we are discussing this afternoon. It refers to: 
The Government's failure to deal with the deficiencies revealed in the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs. 
This is the matter about which we are talking. It has 3 aspects. Firstly, it refers to the Government's failure. I take it that means this Government's failure. Secondly, it refers to revealed deficiencies and, thirdly, it refers to the survey of educational needs. Let me deal with these points one by one. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  already has referred to the survey, but I should like to make one point which many honourable members opposite fail to realise or fail to give due credence to. The report on the survey states that the survey was initiated by the State Ministers but it was given full encouragement by the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science who asked that private schools and schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory be included. I want to make this point because many people have said that the Commonwealth was not involved in and did not take any responsibility for the survey. The statement in the report of this nationwide survey on educational needs to which I have referred gives the lie to that view. 
I do not want to go back over the history of the survey, except to point out that in May 1970 agreement was reached on the actual manner of presentation of this report, and this much vaunted figure of $ J, 443m was arrived at. This is most important because, as honourable members will remember, this was shortly before the 1970 Premiers conference with which I will deal later. We have heard the history of the survey. Everybody knows that the Commonwealth Government was closely involved in it and that it encouraged it. Let mc refer now to the question of revealed deficiencies. The Minister has already pointed out - I think very graphically and clearly - that in fact these are projected estimates. They do not attempt to delineate the present situation. They were of 3 types: Projects of an extremely urgent nature and projects of an urgent nature as well as others which are regarded as necessary changes. 
Anybody must admit that there are differences in these categories, yet this final figure of % 1,443m was arrived at by considering all these different types of projects and totalling the expenditure. Reference has been made to the question of revealed deficiencies, but if we look at this report on the national survey of educational needs we find the details provided are extremely meagre, and 1 am being kind in calling them 'extremely meagre'. No responsible government could act on the figures revealed in this publication without seeking further details. 
Let us look at the other part of the matter before the House, this alleged failure to act. Firstly, as 1 said, the Commonwealth was closely involved in the survey right from the start. Secondly, when the report was submitted the results were known to the Premiers and the then Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  shortly before the Premiers Conference in 1970. As everybody knows, at that Premiers Conference the States received additional amounts of money which were quite considerable. They received $800m, over the next 5 years above what would have been available under the previous financial arrangements. That is a not inconsiderable amount. Surely it can be argued logically that this additional amount must have placed the States in a better position to deal with their own educational financial arrangements, but the Opposition will not concede us that point. The Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers, as we all know, and asked them what, in view of the changed financial circumstances, they considered they could contribute. In other words this much touted figure of $ 1,143m shortfall was no longer a logical or realistic figure. Also, if one were to attack this problem on a Commonwealth basis it would be only logical that the needs of the independent schools should be included in the discussions with the Commonwealth. So the then Prime Minister, far from failing to act, did act and he sought this opinion from the State Premiers and from the independent schools. This was not a failure to act. This was acting in a responsible manner. What happened? The States, for reasons of which 1 am not aware, in some cases have not yet replied to this request. How can the Commonwealth be blamed for the States' dilatoriness in replying to this letter? I cannot conceive how this criticism can be levelled at the Commonwealth when the States did not act. 
What else was done? In the replies of the Slates there is, 1 am told, a lack of detail which must be required by any responsible government department before expenditure of public money can be made. If the Commonwealth is to expend public money in large slabs then realistic details of how it is to be expended and where it is to be expended must be known. Let us look further at what the Commonwealth did. The Minister who was acting for the Minister for Education and and Science in September of last year wrote to the State Education Ministers seeking their detailed replies in relation to the projects of an extremely urgent nature. In other words, the Minister was saying: 'We may not be able to make up the leeway fully but let us have the details of the projects of an extremely urgent nature so that we can act.' What happened? The States again have not yet revealed these details. Perhaps one can level criticism at the States for this, but I do not see how criticism can be levelled at the Commonwealth. In all these matters the Commonwealth has acted in a logical and responsible manner. What are being sought are detailed statistics, detailed projections of expenditure, so that realistic decisions can be made. 
In marked contrast to honourable members opposite 1 have confined myself to the matter under discussion. At this stage i am not going to talk about the other advances that the Commonwealth has made in education in general throughout Australia. These are well known and well documented. The extremely large increase in Commonwealth expenditure on education in the last Budget has already been noted. On the specific matter before the House I believe that the assertion that the Commonwealth has failed to act is absolutely wrong and cannot be supported. Rather, the Commonwealth has acted in a most highly responsible and realistic manner, one which I believe is in the best long term interests not only of the school children of Australia but also of all those people who contribute money in taxes. I reject the proposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask the Minister: In view of the widespread public uncertainty and speculation, will he inform the House what action the Government intends to take with respect to the collection of outstanding fines owed by several trade unions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the Australian Wool Industry Conference's clear recommendation to the Australian Government that the Government continue to allow the export of 300 merino rams this year, can the Minister inform me whether or not exporters of merino rams are still being prevented from honouring their sales undertakings by actions of certain unions? Will he assure the House that in the future the Government will ensure that Australian sheep breeders will not be unlawfully prevented from honouring their overseas sales by the actions of union dictators not answerable to the Australian public through the ballot box? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the average ;ige of entry to all Australian universities in (a) 1966 and (b) 1970. 
What was the average age of entry to colleges of advanced education in (a) 1966 and (b) 1970. 
Can he give an estimated breakdown of living costs for tertiary students living (a) at home and (b) away from home. 
Can he give an estimated breakdown of incidental education expenses, such as those for text-books, stationery, instruments, protective clothing, excursions and field trips, incurred by an average student studying (a) dentistry, (b) medicine, (c) arts and (d) law. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourablethe  Speaker  and Members of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
As a tourist attraction the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. 
It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos and it is essential that population surveys be made immediately. And your petitioners, therefore, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 -Mr Speaker, we all have heard many definitions of the term 'productivity' and essentially I would agree with the proposition that productivity embraces the concept of the most efficient use of all national resources, be they land, labour, capital or any other input necessary for production. What is most important, though, is that everyone should have understanding of the term, and the essential and clear differences which exist between the words 'production' and 'productivity'. There is a common feeling that the 2 words mean the same thing and, while almost three-quarters of all the people in a survey conducted for the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia last year said that they had heard of the word 'productivity', only one in 10 could give an acceptable definition of the meaning of productivity. 
Even the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in the debate on this ministerial statement on Thursday of last week showed that he obviously is not clear as to the meaning of the word, for he said: 
No honourable member in this place suggests - I hope that no honourable member opposite would suggest it - that it is necessarily in the best interests of the nation to increase productivity. 
I suggest that every member in the Parliament should deem it in the best interests of the nation to increase productivity. I believe a genera! understanding of what the concept implies to be of significant importance before any major advances can be made towards increasing the productivity of the nation. I have assumed that people generally, apart from the honourable member for Corio, would want increased productivity, and I believe that most would, when and if they understood the term. Unfortunately, though, as I have said- 
I am sure. 
It is in Hansard. Unfortunately though, as I have said, we find that 9 out of 10 people have a confused understanding and therefore have difficulty often in placing sufficient personal emphasis on efforts to achieve increased productivity. As honourable members on both sides of the House have pointed out, there are difficulties associated with measurement of productivity. To me, this is not the only point at issue. I am more concerned about the attitudes of mind which should be present in the total population with respect to the term 'productivity'. 
The benefits of increased productivity affect everyone in the community and bring benefits to everyone, not only because of lowered production costs and lower prices but also because inflationary trends can be dampened down, higher wages and salaries paid, and improved working conditions and increased leisure time can result. Conversely, if productivity does not increase, these things are much more difficult of achievement. 
These then, very sketchily, are some of the individual benefits which do occur. But there is much more to it than this because we are not an isolated nation. If we are to maintain our sound economic position in the world and if we are to achieve a reputation as a strong, sound, progressive country to be taken as an example by less developed countries, we can achieve these things only if we use all our resources, which as we all know are extremely limited in certain cases, in the most efficient possible way and use them not only to maintain and to build the nation both internally and in our relationships with other countries but also to achieve that type and quality of life style sought after by every one of us. 
Productivity aims at the elimination of waste, and waste whether it is in terms of human or material resources should not be tolerated. These things impose great responsibilities on us all, individually and collectively. There is no one section of the population that can afford to say that its contribution is not important. There is no one person who should say that he has no part to play. Whether one is a labourer, a managing director, a shop steward, a personnel consultant, a tradesman or a technologist, one has an interlocking role which together makes the whole. The achievement of higher productivity often results in individual strain. Industries whose operations are no longer economic must compete with other industries and Other sectors of the economy for scarce resources. Individuals will need to develop fully their own talents. Technological change to an increasing extent will result in more and more of the jobs at present being done by people being taken over by machines. Contrary to the opinions of a number of scaremongers this does not mean that there will be fewer jobs. It means that the jobs, will be different, in many cases requiring individual qualifications of a particular type. People must be aware of and accept the need for constant review, revision and in many cases retraining in their work situation. This in itself requires that the educational training of individuals must be of the highest possible standards, aimed at producing individuals attuned to and capable of adjustment to a rapidly changing situation. 
I think that the Government has shown a full realisation of what I have just said because at the post-school level its concern and activity in this important matter can be seen in the 12 months following the publication of what is called the Tregillis mission report. A tripartite mission led by a Department of Labour and National Service official, having examined training programmes overseas, suggested there were serious deficiencies in Australia. The then Minister for Labour and National Service, the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)1,  immediately launched a programme of reviewing the adequacy of our own training in industry, from the shop floor to the executive suite. All appropriate bodies - employers, employees, educationalists - were asked to give careful consideration to the matter. That was done. The Minister asked State ministers to discuss the matter with him. They achieved a close joint commitment to the aims of improving our training throughout the nation. The Commonwealth has called a national conference next month of all parties, and this conference is expected to give new direction to this area, so important to our national productivity achievements. 
The previous Minister in a statement to the House said: 
We should take action Lo improve tha range and quality of training facilities and training methods. 
He went on to say: 
We need the promotion of a more efficient and socially desirable allocation of resources through tariff rationalisation, moral suasion of financial institutions and selected government expenditure. We need new and urgent attention given to higher business management education and we need the encouragement of competition, internal and external. 
These statements by members of the Ministry show the Government's full awareness of the problems which will confront the Australian nation in the future as technological change becomes more and more rapid. There is no doubt at all that the rapid social, economic and technological changes sweeping the world have placed and will continue to place an increasing strain on the individual. Opting out is a temporary and ineffectual answer. The only answer is to be found in the development of individual skills and individual attitudes capable of controlling, harnessing and directing change so that the individual is not overwhelmed by forces which he cannot understand and, therefore, does not feel part of. This then gets us back to what productivity is all about, that is, the best possible use of resources. We must all be aware and conscious of the fact that this does not necessarily mean increased production for production's sake. It means simply that each person must be aware of his own responsibilities, whether in relation to strike action or monopolistic profits, and that his individual actions determine to a great extent whether or not scarce resources are to be put to their best possible use. He must be aware that by his actions situations may arise which could in the short term benefit him personally but in the long term bring about a misallocation of resources through loss of production or insufficient flexibility in resource change. 
In an industrialised society with full or nearly full employment the maintenance of open lines of communication between management and labour is obviously of paramount importance. In addition, actions by both groups resulting in loss of productivity should only be taken after very careful consideration of the possible results of such action. It is fruitless for one group to seek to dominate the other because not only are the groups virtually interdependent but also both groups have a real responsibility to the rest of the community to provide essential goods and services. However, I am mostly concerned with the individual. In the world today there seems to be an increasing feeling amongst individuals that they no longer have a personal relevance, that they are part of some great impersonal amorphous machine, the control of which is beyond them. I can understand this feeling but I totally reject the concept. Everyone should understand that the whole is composed of the individual units and that the shape his society takes depends primarily on his own efforts. This is a rejection of the something for nothing attitude which unfortunately seems so prevalent today. This is a call for the development within the individual of a positive attitude towards individual and community responsibility. 
To sum up, the economic welfare on which social and cultural welfare depend will be advanced or retarded according to how we utilise our resources. These resources, as I have said, are capital, labour and natural resources but they require also the right attitude on the part of national leadership and the community generally for their successful utilisation. Productivity is largely dependent on individual attitudes, and our national welfare and success in the broadest possible terms depend on the continued development of a positive approach to the manifold problems of using our limited resources in the most efficient way possible. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service, ls the Minister aware of the world wide reputation enjoyed by Sydney's ocean beaches? Is he aware that it is this reputation which attracts visitors from within Australia and overseas to these beaches? ls the Minister aware that the economic well-being of many thousands of people who conduct businesses in Sydney's beachside areas is dependent upon the continued patronage of these visitors? Is he also aware of the considerable and lasting damage which has been done to this reputation and to individual well-being, both in relation to health and in the economic sense, by the strike of certain employees of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney? Has the Minister made any assessment of the economic damage - not forgetting the public health hazard - caused by the actions of the strikers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Is the Government's policy on immigration to be altered in any way as a result of the ambivalent attitude towards immigration revealed in recent conflicting statements attributed to 2 spokesmen on this subject belonging to the Opposition? 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Australian consulate in Portuguese Timor has been closed? Is there any significance in that? 
I must say that I was very pleased to hear the more moderate approach of the 2 speakers for the Opposition - the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  - which was in marked contrast to the statements of their leader. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Wills admit that when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went to New Guinea he really was not expressing a policy, all he was trying to do was to get people to think. The honourable member for Fremantle again repudiated his leader's statement by saying in regard to indigenes: If they want to delay the attainment of self-government this should be regarded as important'. In other words, the Australian Labor Party is to put some stress at last on what the indigenous people think. 
I am a bit concerned about the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle to abolish regional electorates. I point out that the honourable member's own leader said on 12th January last that the House of Assembly and its members should now be taken seriously as the representatives of their people, and treated by all Australians with proper respect and seriousness. These people who should be treated with proper respect and seriousness in the House of Assembly rejected by 47 votes to 17 an amendment to abolish regional electorates. Yet the Opposition is not prepared to take notice of that rejection. I welcome the statement by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  most sincerely for not only does it point out very clearly the outline of the future development of Papua New Guinea, but it also demonstrates for all of us to see the difference in approach between this Government and members of the Opposition. This difference in approach is tremendously important. I believe that everybody should take note of it because it reflects very clearly what one could expect under a Labor government. It is the difference between the authoritarian and the co-operative approach. On one hand the Leader of the 
Opposition has consistently told the people of Papua New Guinea: 'You will have independence in 1972 or early 1973 should Labor come into power at the next Federal election in Australia'. In other words, the Opposition has taken no notice of the majority view expressed in Papua New Guinea, except for tonight, that independence should be delayed. Instead it has imposed the authoritarian dogma: 'We in Canberra know best. You will have independence whether you want it or not, whether you are prepared for it or not, when we tell you'. 
On the other hand the Government has consistently held the attitude that independence must be a matter of agreement between the people of Papua New Guinea and the Government of Australia. It has held the view that independence would not be forced on the people against their will or withheld against their will. This is not only a wholly responsible attitude but one which recognises the right of the indigenous people to have the major say in the decision when independence should be promulgated. Contrast this attitude with the authoritarian, dictatorial attitude as expressed by the Leader of the Opposition. I used the word 'responsible' in relation to Government policy with respect to Papua New Guinea. I did so very deliberately. The Leader of the Opposition has undertaken two quick trips to New Guinea over the past couple of years and in each case he has told those who attended the meetings that were held what a Labor Government would do with respect to Papua New Guinea regardless - I repeat regardless - of what the indigenous people wanted. 
In certain circumstances statements were issued before the party even arrived in the Territory. This is a typical example of authoritarianism and dogmatism. On the other hand, the Government has supported the formation of a Select Committee of Constitutional Development with members drawn, not from the ranks of Labor Press secretaries or ex-Australian trade union organisers, but from indigenous and expatriate members of the elected representatives of the people of Papua New Guinea; people who live and work in the Territory; people who can speak the lan guage of the Territory and who, presumably, have some knowledge in depth of the customs and mores of the Territorians. This Committee, as the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  pointed out, toured the Territory twice to explain the issues and discuss the proposals with people at the village level. The Committee presented 3 interim reports, visited each district twice and held a total of 236 meetings with the people of the Territory. Surely it must be obvious to even the most obtuse of people that such a committee, with the membership it had, with the work it did, with the meetings it held, with the views it heard, would be in a better position to speak for the majority of the people of Papua New Guinea than would a raiding party of Australian Labor Party theoreticians as exemplified by the recent visits to the Territory of the Leader of the Opposition and his minions. Of course it would. And it is noticeable and a credit to that Committee that with only one amendment the report was accepted on the voices by the members of the House of Assembly on 11th March of this year. 
The report and the recommendations make interesting reading because they reveal very clearly that at the moment the majority of people of Papua New Guinea feel that internal self-government should come about no sooner than during the life of the 1976-1980 House of Assembly. The report also stresses, very rightly I believe, that the rate of political awareness and development in the Territory is increasing. A very interesting sentence in the report states that the Committee is aware that the election of a Labor government in Australia 'could result in internal selfgovernment becoming a reality before the majority of the people are prepared to accept it'. What a damning indictment of Labor Party policy that sentence is. In contrast to the implied criticism of that sentence I have just quoted let us look at paragraph 14 of the report. It states: 
Your Committee believes in the planned gradual development of Papua New Guinea for internal self-government, and believes that the attainment of internal self-government should merely be a further step in an orderly process of development. 
Here the Committee clearly envisages a continuation of Government policy with its clearly started belief in the correctness of that policy. As the Minister for External 
Territories has stated the Government accepts these recommendations with respect to the timing of the movement towards internal self-government. But I would like to stress some of the words of the Minister. He said: 
In accepting- the recommendations - the Government will adopt a flexible attitude. It will prepare a programme for movement to full internal self-government in the period 1972-1976 but the execution - of that programme will have regard to the state of opinion as it develops after the 1972 House of Assembly elections and to the policies of the political leaders who then emerge. 
There are 2 very important aspects of this section. Firstly, the need to be flexible. Secondly, the Minister has recognised that there will almost inevitably be a number of changes amongst the peoples elected to the House of Assembly in 1972. Because of the comparatively recent nature of political activity at a national level, many of the new members will be untrained in the ways and workings of a national parliament and therefore would be in a less favourable position initially when taking part in debates in the House. At this stage the party system of political organisation is in its infancy in the Territory. I have no doubt that the party system will be advanced considerably following the 1972 elections and it is possible that a number of representatives who are not in favour of early self-government, organised into a party and commanding a majority in the House, may decide that the declaration of self-government should be delayed. Of course, the reverse could be the case. The Australian Government is very wisely in my opinion maintaining its policy of increasing localisation within the Administration and at the same time leaving the final decision on the date of self-government to those who will have the responsibility of administering the country. 
The Minister has made mention of the expatriate officers. Anyone travelling in Kew Guinea must be struck by the superb job officers of the Administration have done and are continuing to do, particularly in the more remote areas of the country. The personal hardships, dangers and problems faced by these officers over the years deserves the highest praise, and I believe it is absolutely essential for the future wellbeing of the Territory that expatriate officers should be maintained to provide guidance and training for the indigenous officers of the Administration. An efficient, loyal and honest public service is the cornerstone of development for any nation. These traditions of honesty, efficiency and loyalty must be instilled into all who enter the public service, and these traditions are not instilled, developed or passed on overnight. The problem of building such a public service in an under-developed country with a population consisting of people with common backgrounds, religious beliefs, cultural mores and language is difficult enough. The problem becomes enormous when one is dealing with over 700 different groups of people in a country where ground transport is slow and inefficient, where radio and telephonic communications are grossly underdeveloped, and where there are enormous cultural and educational differences, not only between tribes but also between age groups within tribes. 
Under these circumstances it is essential that expatriate officers be recruited and retained in order to assist the growth and development of an indigenous administration. Not to do so would place an almost insuperable check on the fragile growing points of local development. Not to attempt to check the loss of experienced, respected expatriate officers is short-sighted in the extreme. To encourage their departure is grossly irresponsible. If they are retained, then realistic and worthwhile initiatives will need to be taken in consultation with these officers to ensure that they can see some future for themselves and their families when the time comes for them to leave the Territory. 1 note also in the constitutional recommendations of the Select Committee's report that the system of government for Papua New Guinea should be a single central government as at present. There are 2 aspects of this recommendation that I would like to comment upon. Firstly, there is a real danger, I believe, of fragmentation of the Territory should selfgovernment come before either the elected legislators or the Administration are ready for it. Here again I would like to stress my belief in the importance of experienced expatriate officers whom I see as providing an enormous stabilising force in the first difficult years of independence. I am not saying that fragmentation could not occur even if expatriates stayed, but I believe that it would be less likely to occur. 1 regard fragmentation as one of the worst prospects facing the Territory. Secondly, I believe that the adoption of this recommendation results in the need to develop and strengthen local councils. The development of a district will, to a large extent, depend upon the efficiency and capacity of the local council. This is particularly so in Papua New Guinea because of communications difficulties. Of necessity the central government will be a remote concept for a majority of the population, hence my concern for the necessity for strong and purposeful local government to which Territory residents can more easily relate. 1 am concerned at the proposal to establish a Bill of Rights in the Constitution. Whilst I can understand that particularly for an underdeveloped people a Bill of Rights provides a tangible expression of personal privileges, nevertheless the proposal has drawbacks which can overweigh its usefulness. A Bill of Rights seeks to outline in printed form concepts which in themselves are extremely difficult to define. In seeking to define abstract concepts one imposes the constraint of the written word and hence opens the way for endless argument and disputation as to the intended meanings of the words. This is fine for those engaged in the legal profession, but does nothing much for the citizen. This is not a theoretical objection. One has only to look at the number of legal cases involving disputes about aspects of clauses contained in the Bills of Rights of individual countries and the objection becomes very real. Whilst we have the principle of absolute equality of citizens before the law - with everyone, no matter what his station, subject to the law - whilst we have the independence of the judiciary and whilst we have the right of freedom of speech and assembly so long as the freedoms of other people are not infringed, the rights of individual citizens are protected. So long as we have parliamentary scrutiny of allegations with the concept of ministerial responsibility, we do not have to go to a court or a judge appointed for life. Ministers of State can be subjected daily to questions and crossexamination, and in the final analysis governments pursuing a certain line of con duct can be voted out of office. These safeguards are there for every citizen, without the necessity for a Bill of Rights. Not only the actuality but also the spirit of freedom is protected. 
The problems which face the people of Papua New Guinea are enormous - economic, administrative and political. The range of sophistication within the peoples of the Territory is probably as wide as anywhere in the world. Formal education is still confined to a relatively small proportion of the population. Communication is difficult and costly to improve. Depite these problems the people of the Territory are moving towards the point where their future destiny relies upon their own decisions. The attainment of the decisionmaking capacity and the administrative machinery necessary to put these decisions into effect are being developed. This Government, in its sympathetic approach to the move towards self-government - action taken in conjunction with the expressed wish of the people of Papua New Guinea - must be congratulated. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the cost to the Commonwealth of the $300 education concessional deduction offered under section 82 J (4.) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if this deduction was increased to $600. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if a concessional deduction up to (a) $300 and (b) $600 was granted to taxpayers who pay the education expenses for full-time students (i) under 26 years of age and (ii) under 30 years of age. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if a concessional deduction up to (a) $300 and (b) $600 wds granted to full-time students (0 under 26 years of age and (ii) under 30 years of age who pay their own personal education expenses. 
What is the cost to the Commonwealth for the allowance of deductions for education expenses under section 51 (1.) of the Income Tax Assessment Act where the student is (a) part-time and (b) full-time. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if a concessional deduction up to (a) $300 and (b) $600' was granted to taxpayers who pay education expenses in respect of parttime students (i) under 21 years of age, (ii) under 26 years of age and (iii) under 30 years of age. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if part-time students were exempt from tax on non-bonded scholarships. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if (a) full-time and (b) part-time students were exempt from tax on bonded scholarships; 
What is the cost to the Commonwealth of the maintenance allowance for student children under section 82b (2.) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
What would be the estimated  cost to tha  Commonwealth if the allowance under section 82b (2.) of the Act in respect of a student child was increased to $313. 
What would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if the definition of a student child under section 82b (5.) of the Act was redefined to include (a) part-time students, (b) students under 26 years of age and (e) students under 30 years of age. 
What would be the estimated cost for each category in the previous question if the maintenance deduction for a student child was increased to $312. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer him to the publication of the so-called Pentagon papers in America earlier this year. Was a . request from the South Vietnamese Government the sole reason for the commitment of Australian troops to Vietnam in 1965? If not, what other considerations influenced the Government's decision? Does the publication of the Pentagon papers cast any doubt on the propriety of this commitment? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer him to the decision to reduce the period of full time national service from 2 years to 18 months. I ask: What ls considered to be the minimum period necessary for the adequate training of national servicemen? Has the Government considered the re-introduction of universal national service? 
In dealing with some of the provisions of the Budget I would like to look at 2 of the main problems confronting not only the Government of this country but also the governments of most developed nations. I refer to what is commonly called the rural crisis and also the urban crisis. These are often considered as separate and discrete problems but I believe that it is only by a realisation of the closely interwoven nature of the 2 and by actions taken coincidentally that sound and effective solutions can be achieved. 
I would like briefly to examine the rural situation. When doing this we should also be endeavouring the evaluate the role of the agriculture sector in a modern developing economy such as ours. 
City people tend to have great misconceptions about country life, and the monetary returns achieved by landowners. These misconceptions are fed by the emphasis that has been placed on the social occasions occurring in the country and the activities of country people during visits to the city. The image of broad hats, boots and banknotes has been absorbed by the city dweller over a long period. With food prices continually rising it is hard for anyone not conversant with the problem to listen to, let alone be sympathetic to, the plight of the primary producer. In the past, the landowner has traditionally been well off but now something has changed. The thing that has changed, of course, is Australia, particularly the type and sophistication of our economy. 
A commonly forgotten fact in any discussion on the role and problems of the agriculture sector is that the income elasticity of demand for food is relatively low. This means that as a country increases its productivity and its income per head, the demand for food tends to grow less rapidly - and any increased prices tend to be absorbed by the processors rather than being reflected at the farm gate. In Australia, as in other countries, much of our total agricultural production is sold on the export market, and hence is forced to compete at world prices which are generally lower than home market prices. AH this, of course, is very well known, but it is of particular relevance in our case because home export industries facing steady or lowered world prices are faced with the domestic situation of a rapidly expanding economy with even larger increases in wages and costs. Increased productivity has not compensated for these cost increases. 
The economy is now such that the contribution of agriculture to the gross national product has fallen from roughly 20 per cent after World War II to less than 9 per cent today. This means that the rural producer is faced with falling real income compared with the rest of the community. Compounding this problem, the nature of agriculture results in resources tending to become relatively immobile when used in the industry. Land generally does not return much for other uses; capital can become relatively fixed when invested in specialised machinery and facilities, and labour is often untrained for other purposes - or in many cases is too old to consider changing. The effect of this immobility is to prevent ready shifts of resource* out of agriculture when economic pressure would recommend such shifts. Rural property owners are likely to accept lower levels of income rather than seek employment elsewhere, particularly if they are older or where the level of skills required in alternative employment deters them. 
These factors I have mentioned are complicated by the vagaries of the weather; and Australian agriculture has been bedevilled by the climatic extremes which affect so greatly the most carefully laid production plans. Additionally world demand and supply of primary products is notoriously variable with many traditional strong sellers being displaced by synthetics and a very real rise in the capacity of individual countries to produce an increasingly high proportion of their own primary product needs. The individual producer is then confronted with the real problem of what is the best thing for him to do. In most instances he is encouraged to become more and more efficient, adopt new technology and to produce at full capacity. As most of his fellow producers are doing exactly the same thing, the net result is often to increase the supply faster than the demand resulting in lower prices and even total lower returns in many instances. This means that if productivity in agriculture is  growing almost as rapidly as in all the other occupations - the growth in productivity per head in agriculture since the 1940s has been very marked - the percentage of the population engaged in agriculture must decline. Additionally, the structure of the agricultural industries must be continuously adapted to a declining labour force, and also the sizes of the farms need to be adjusted to take cognisance of higher real wages. 
In Australia the proportion of the national work force engaged in agriculture has declined to less than 8 per cent. This process is repeated in every industrially developing country in the world. We should accept that it is inevitable, and should make sure that we adapt our policies, bearing in mind the effect that drift from the land has on other sectors of the economy, to this inevitability. Agriculture will progressively find itself in competition with industry for manpower and resources. Protective policies can contribute to greater efficiency when they reduce price variations, but when they are maintained at a consistently higher level than normal equilibrium price they encourage the allocation of resources to the production of a commodity at a level above that which may be desirable. They can be and are designed to reduce cyclical variations in returns but their effect should always be to keep adaptive changes orderly, not to mask their necessity or excessively to slow their progress. 
The problems of the property owners are reflected in a very direct sense by those engaged in supplying goods and services to agriculturists. The people of country towns - the merchants, store owners, machinery agents and a host of others - are as severely affected as any property owner. The problems are compounded by the fact that the small country towns no longer are required to furnish labour and services to surrounding land owners. Increasing mechanisation, improved motor transport and roads, amalgamation of holdings and the subsequent drift of population, have rendered many small country towns obsolete. 
Educational facilities and job opportunities are severely restricted. There is little to offer young people, particularly those with above average intelligence and drive. So, of course we find small country towns los ing their brightest sons, businesses contracting and an acceleration of the process towards decay. It is a little different from the larger country towns, particularly those with more established secondary industries. But it must not be forgotten that the declining fortunes of the rural sector have much greater ramifications than would appear at first sight. This is another facet of the problems of the agricultural sector which is often overlooked by the city dweller. It is not just the landowner who is threatened by the economic rigours of today. All those concerned with him - of course, this extends to city suppliers - are affected by his success or his failure. 
What then of the city dweller? I said originally that the problems of the city and the country were closely interwoven. We all know the massive problems confronting major cities the world over. High land prices, overcrowding, transport and traffic difficulties, environmental disturbance and pollution, psychological problems leading to high crime rates, the rising costs of the provision of public facilities and the absence of recreational facilities are just some of the factors which combine to reduce the quality of life in many big cities of the world. The problems are very different, because there are job opportunities, and educational and cultural attractions. There are avenues for those with drive and imagination to put their talents to work. The rewards are great, but so are the costs. 
It is a sad commentary on our achievements when a man has to spend up to 20 per cent of his waking hours travelling to and from work, when weather forecasts include the level of eye irritation likely from exposure to the atmosphere, when traffic police can spend only minutes on traffic duty and children are not allowed to play outside because of atmospheric pollution, when the individual becomes depersonalised and lashes out with all sorts of anti-social behaviour, when the city becomes just too big for the good of the people living in it. We are confronted with these problems in Australia - particularly, of course in Sydney and Melbourne - and they are rapidly being compounded as more and more people, whether from natural increase, immigration or drift from the country areas, come to where job opportunities exist. 
The task then is to take some concerted action aimed at reducing the problems. Dealing firstly with agricultural industries, our policies must not be aimed at simply propping up uneconomic rural industries or inefficient or uneconomic land owners. We should aim at rationalising our agricultural industries so that those engaged in them will be able to compete on world markets without massive injections of support funds from the taxpayers' pockets. This means, in effect, a strengthening of emphasis on rural reconstruction. I believe very firmly that we should widen the eligibility provisions for this scheme to enable land owners, not yet reduced to the economic disaster level at present required before help can be given, to gain access to funds, with, at the same time, a solid emphasis on the need and provision of effective re-training programmes and a ready realisation of the need for property consolidation. The $40m provided this year is a worthwhile step, but I believe more emphasis should have been given to this method of coping with the rural problem, perhaps at the expense of some of the other rural measures announced. By broadening the scope and finances of the rural reconstruction scheme, anybody engaged in any form of agricultural production would have a claim, provided he was eligible under the terms of the scheme. 
The marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme provides an example of what can be achieved by reconstruction. It may be that there is a case for the Government to examine the possibility of encouraging the leasing of land on a much greater scale than is presently the case. This would have the attraction of not requiring people to sell up their property and would also result in a continuing income for the lessor, whilst requiring less capital outlay for the lessee. Again, the Government's actions with respect to dairy farms may serve as a model, with the Government paying the lessor the value of improvements on his property as a capital sum with the costs to the lessee reduced accordingly. 
Whilst I would be the first to agree that the wool industry deserved and needed some immediate help, and that the money injected into this sector will result in payments to many of those people servicing the industry, I think the need has never been more urgent for an independent sur vey into the future prospects of wool as an industrial fibre. The once sacred word wool' has, in a sense, now become profane. This country, as we all know, was to a large extent built upon the golden fleece, but now the price has dropped to a level where continuing support would cost hundreds of millions of dollars. I notice that in the Australian Wool Commission's interim annual report to Parliament for 1970-71, in the section headed 'World Demand', the Commission states that there was a 22 per cent fall in the average price for the season, together with an 8.9 per cent reduction in the quantity of wool purchased at auction. Exports of Australian wool to the United States of America, Italy, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands fell by over 40 per cent in comparison with exports in 1969-70. Japanese purchases fell by 2 per cent and exports to only France, Germany, Belgium and some Asian and Eastern European countries were increased. These trends make me extremely hesitant to predict a large scale revival for wool, particularly when one takes into account the level of sophistication of research effort aimed at improving artificial fibres. 
I find also that one of the largest manufacturers of knitting machines in the world is now making machines which will not take the present types of woollen yarns. This is a tremendously disturbing phenomenon because if knitted woollen garments are not capable of being produced on these new machines, wool's already greatly depressed share of the knitted garment market must inevitably decline still further. There is thus this urgent need for an independent survey into the future for wool because, without some factual appreciation of the situation we face, we will find the very real prospect or danger of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars endeavouring to maintain an industry whose product may no longer be wanted. 
I believe this Government in addition to pursuing these rural policies, in conjunction with the State governments, should now embark on a policy, of selective development. Australia is a country with scarce resources of manpower and capital. Bearing this in mind I believe the consulting Governments should choose  a  few growth centres using such criteria as readily available local natural resources like water and timber, good surface transport connections with established trade outlets and the potential within its area of influence for industrial growth and subsequent service industries. The Government should concentrate the resources that are available on the development of such centres. It is impossible, I believe, to develop such centres solely on agricultural industries. The object should be to provide attractive employment, housing, schooling, recreational and cultural opportunities, so that not only would those people originally from a rural setting be attracted to the centres but also many people at present living and working in major cities would be encouraged to move to such a centre. 
I believe these attractions and developments can be achieved in a number of ways. Firstly, it would be possible for the head office of certain State public service departments to be located in selected growth centres. At the same time industry would be encouraged to set up in these centres by a combination of States and Commonwealth provided incentives. These need to be clearly set out, so that the individual industry can carry out a cost benefit analysis without the need for submitting proposals before consideration can be given by individual decentralisation departments. These incentives should include, investment grants, taxation concessions, communication cost concessions, freight cost concessions, help with the cost of factory building and housing and the provision of aid for local government bodies to assist in the provision of public facilities. 
It is my strong belief that this is a tremendously worthwhile area for a productive display of co-operative federalism. The process will not occur naturally except perhaps with respect to the development of mining prospects of various kinds. It needs a catalyst, followed by continued Government action. This action can only adequately be carried out by the Federal Government in co-operation with the States. What in effect I am saying is that the people of Australia need to feel that they have a government with a clear idea of the direction in which it is guiding the country, and the objectives it hopes to achieve. There is then a real need for a clear statement of national objectives, a demonstration by the Government of knowledge and appreciation of the prob lems confronting urban and rural people, and the presentation and implementation of co-ordinated programmes with FederalState co-operation in tackling the problems and working towards the objectives. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kirwan)  adjourned. 
I refer the Prime Minister to a question I asked in this House on 30th October 1970 concerning the release of Commonwealth land on the Sydney Harbour foreshores. I now ask him: Can he tell me what the present position is with respect to the negotiations between the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales concerning the release, for recreational purposes, of land bordering on Sydney Harbour owned or occupied by the Commonwealth? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 8 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2063 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note . of the consensus of international, political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia humbly pray that the Government of this country will: 
Ban the shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes. (No animal can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale as exists under present legislation.) 
Ban the export of all kangaroo products from Australia. 
Prevent the extinction of the red kangaroo. (The red kangaroo has been reduced to a numerical level where its survival is in jeopardy.) 
Institute a scientific survey of the kangaroo population. 
Establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
Take control of and be completely responsible for the management of Australia's wildlife. 
Petition received. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has given vent to his usual plethora of statistics, most of which, of course, have not had the time to check. But there was one that, with the research facilities that he has at his command, I was surprised he should run on yet again. I refer to this shortfall or alleged shortfall of $l,443.7m. Surely the Leader of the Opposition should have caught up with the fact that this figure was arrived at prior to the Premiers Conference in June 1970 which resulted in a new financial deal being arranged with the States and which rendered the allegation of the shortfall no longer capable of being sustained. 
Once again this year, as the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has said, both the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have outlined to the House and to the nation the marked increase that has taken place in the allocation of funds which will be devoted by this Government to education. The Minister for Education and Science has said: 
The Government fully recognises the national importance of education and of the development of educational services. Its objective is to do what it appropriately can in co-operation with the State governments to improve the quantity and quality of education. 
I fully support this attitude as I regard education and the provision of educational facilities as being of extreme importance to the future of this country. I am sure that most other honourable members in the Parliament go along with this view. But, as we all know, the Commonwealth has progressively become more involved in education since the Second World War. Financial grants were first made to the States in 1951, largely to assist in the provision of university accommodation. Probably the next major step was the formation of the Murray Committee in 1957, which resulted in the Commonwealth Government channelling much more money to the universities. It also resulted in the formation of the Australian Universities Commission. Since that time the Commonwealth progressively not only has increased its contributioncontribution in absolute terms but also has built up the range of educational activities it supports. 
As the Minister said in his statement to the House, expenditure on education has doubled over the last 5 years. Even in the last few years, since 1967-68, the Commonwealth has become involved in many new fields. Reference to the Minister's statement in Hansard indicates that since 1967-68 the Commonwealth has provided money for school libraries. Since that time it has also made a contribution towards pre-school teachers colleges. The Leader of the Opposition made great play on the lack of emphasis placed on pre-school education. Estimates of Commonwealth expenditure on education indicate that this year $1,165,000 is being set aside for the erection of pre-school teachers colleges. The Commonwealth has also made contributions towards Aboriginal advancement and has provided per capita recurrent grants for independent schools. Commonwealth expenditure on the child migrant education programme has increased from $109,000 in 1969-70 to $2,610,000 this year. This year the Commonwealth is to provide $200,000 for teacher training scholarships, $3,300,000 for Aboriginal secondary school grants and $550,000 for Aboriginal study grants. These are just some of the additional educational activities in which the Commonwealth has become involved in the last few years. Surely this is a very clear demonstration of the Government's real interest and performance with respect to support for education. 
I really wonder whether any of us are conscious enough of the very real pitfalls which surround us when we blithely talk about increased Commonwealth assistance being necessary before we can hope to develop adequate educational systems and facilities. We all should realise that whether we like it or not, the Constitution stipulates that the responsibility for the provision of primary and secondary State education shall remain with the States. The Commonwealth progressively has contributed more and more moneys towards the maintenance and expansion of State educational systems and also towards the nongovernment system; but because of constitutional requirements it has been forced to do this mainly through grants under section 96, with the money earmarked for specific purposes. This, to my mind, has created a situation in which the general public has become unclear as to where the primary responsibility for the provision of educational services lies. This confusion has been exploited by the State governments which in many cases have concealed their own inadequacies by blaming the Federal Government for shortcomings in areas which are not and never have been Federal responsibility. 
While there can be little argument as to the worth of the increased expenditure on education, a situation may arise where schools have little real choice as to how they will spend any money for which they are eligible. Because of the nature of the programmes, schools may be spending the money in building facilities which are not at the top of their list of priorities for capital expenditure. In a sense, this has sometimes led to an avoidable misuse of scarce resources, and I am speaking here particularly about primary and secondary schooling. It seems to me that the nature of the Federal contribution towards financing education should not be on a piecemeal basis. The expenditure so far has not resulted in the most efficient use of such moneys as are available, nor - and this is particularly important, to my mind - has it adequately encouraged enough direct personal contributions towards educational expenses. It is mischievous, misleading and untrue to suggest that any education can be free, and should any government or political party seek to promote this false concept, not only should the duplicity of the claim be exposed but also the cost in terms of increased personal taxation burdens should be brought home to every taxpayer. 
It is becoming clearer and clearer that the costs involved in providing adequate primary and secondary education in developed countries will prove to be beyond the resources of governments if they seek to meet them entirely from taxation. It is tremendously important then for this Government to sit down with the States and clearly demarcate the respective areas of responsibility regarding the provision and funding of educational facilities. The Government should also be seeking means to simplify the methods by which it makes its contributions towards education, and it should also be extremely conscious of the very real educational and financial advantage to be gained from a maintenance and expansion of the non-government school system. We all should be working towards encouraging a marked increase in the provision of public and private expenditure on education. It is in the best interests of the country that we should do this, and to do so we must seek a system whereby the increased resources are utilised as efficiently as possible. 
This does not mean a centralised system; it means a decentralised system with both State and Federal governments clearly understanding and being accountable for their own areas of responsibility. It is no use suggesting that we can run educational institutions all over Australia from Canberra. It is the people at the point of contact with the pupils who undoubtedly have the best idea about the ways in which money should be spent on their particular school. This is why I believe we should be seeking a simpler method of providing funds for both the public and private sectors of education. I should like again to stress the importance of the nongovernment schools. Here we have a system where people are prepared to pay money in addition to their normal taxation payments for the right to send their children to the schools of their choice. This private investment in education is, I believe, extremely important and should be encouraged as it not only preserves the freedom of choice for the individual but also encourages educational experimentation and the provision of increased total resources for education. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that Australian manufacturers of woven man-made fibres were granted temporary and permanent protection alternatively by the Tariff Board during most of the last decade? Has the temporary protection recently been increased to an average of 1 10 per cent following a decision by the Special Advisory Authority of the Tariff Board? Is it a fact that this decision was arrived at despite the fact that evidence shows that declining markets in Australia for Australian man-made women fabrics is caused mainly by competition from knitted products rather than imported woven products? Will this decision add considerably to the cost of Australian clothing, and is there any time limit to temporary protection? 
Like other honourable members, I was fascinated to hear the list of troubles besetting the people of the Darling electorate, particularly those relating to education and the type of radio they have. But I saw very little relationship between those remarks and the matter under discussion. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  also mentioned that he considered that the scheme looked after only those wool growers who were viable. I suggest in this case that he read the Bill more closely, because he will find that there is no discrimination amongst the various wool growers. 
I must say that when I first heard of this scheme to provide a deficiency payment in respect of wool production I was very greatly perturbed. I was fearful that this could be the start of an escalating subsidy which would not only cost the taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars but also lead to a situation in which adjustment to the economic circumstances of the day in relation to wool production would be at best delayed or at worst baited. The presentation and explanation of the Bill by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have done much to allay some of my fears. But there are aspects of :he philosophy behind the introduction of the Bill and the provisions contained in the proposed legislation upon which I would like to expand. The necessity for some form of aid to rural people at the present time is widely and openly acknowledged. Both from a social and an economic viewpoint there was and is a need for some concerted action to be taken in respect of urgent rural problems. 
What is proposed then is a scheme, operative for one year, to enable, in the words of the Minister, some cushioning of the effects of substantial restructuring and readjustments in the wool industry. I have no quarrel with this totally admirable objective so far as it goes, but my initial objection, and the first point I would like (o make, is that the rural problem is not confined to the wool grower. Producers of most primary products are experiencing difficulties of varying severity. We have had presented to us the rural reconstruction scheme. It is significant to reflect that $40m is being made available this year for the rural reconstruction scheme which, by its terms, covers the whole range of agricultural production while the wool deficiency payment scheme, costing almost certainly more than Si 00m for this one year, will be limited to wool producers, with all wool producers receiving the same rate of payment. My first objection is that this huge amount of money will be divided up amongst only one group of primary producers - those who produce wool. As I said in my speech on the Budget earlier this session, I believe that the money would have been spent more wisely and more equitably had it been applied to a liberalised reconstruction scheme. There are approximately 90,000 wool producers in Australia - these are the people amongst whom the $100m will be divided - whilst the total number of registered farm owners, who will have access to the $40m, is in excess of 250,000. The wool producers who will have access to this amount of over $100m will also have access to the $40m under the rural reconstruction scheme. This seems to be a very real objection to the scheme. 
Moving on from this general objection I would like to look more closely at the Bill itself. Firstly, the Bill was conceived, as the Minister said, to help cushion the harsh effects of the dramatic fall in the price of wool. In a sense, its purpose is largely of a welfare nature. If one admits this proposition the next logical step is to assess the scheme, using as one's cri* terion the possibility of attainment of the welfare objective. In other words, will the scheme provide help for those who are most in need of financial assistance? In pure economic terms - I stress that - a case can be made out for imposing some form of means test to delineate those considered to be most in need. 
On the face of it, those people with large numbers of sheep who presumably, because of economies of scale, access to financial resources and other factors, would best be able to cope with either the absolute fall in prices or the necessity to change the enterprise, will be most highly supported whilst those least able to cope, because of the size of their enterprise, the size of their property, their restricted access to alternative sources of funds, lack of training and a host of other factors, will receive only a small total remuneration. For example, if the average price for greasy wool stays around 29c per lb, with the guaranteed price of 36c per lb, taking an average fleece weight of 10 lb the subsidy per sheep will be about 70c. By a simple mathematical sum one can find that the owner of 1,000 sheep would receive a subsheep would receive a subsidy of about sidy of about $700, the owner of 5,000 $3,500 and the owner of 10,000 sheep would receive a subsidy of about $7,000. The argument is: The bigger you are the more you get; and. presumably, the less you need it. 
The smaller man who in many cases is said to be the person who needs the help most is not assisted to the extent he should be. I can understand this thinking, and it ties in with my earlier objection to the scheme. If the money had been made available with some control over who should qualify for assistance in terms of real need and the capacity for recovery - that capacity for recovery is most important - then 1 believe that a more sensible income distribution would have resulted and a more realistic channelling of scarce resources towards those most capable of effectively utilising them would have been achieved. But the facts of the situation are that the big man and the small man are in the same sort of trouble. Size is no indication of financial situation, despite what the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  might tell us. 
The inclusion of some form of means assessment in this scheme would probably cost more than it would save. Those difficulties have already been outlined very capably and very graphically by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  This would have become totally apparent. Another aspect of the scheme which worried me initially and which, to a certain extent, has been overcome by the provisions of the Bill, relates to the granting of a subsidy at all. We are all aware of the need for reconstruction of our rural industries. Indeed, the Government has produced its rural reconstruction scheme to ensure that reconstruction is encouraged. However, it must be admitted that subsidies and the urge to reconstruct are incompatible. 
The granting of a subsidy automatically cuts down the rate at which reconstruction will occur. If the subsidised price is above the long term price of a commodity, producers will be encouraged to stay in an industry which economic reality would have them leave. It may be that the long term average price of wool is below 36c per lb. In fact, on all the evidence I have seen this proposition is more likely than unlikely. If this were the case and if the subsidy were continued beyond the one year laid down its effect would be to encourage people to stay on in an industry which economic reason would dictate their leaving. If they did stay on and the subsidy were continued this would be at enormous cost to the taxpayer. 
I know, and it encourages me, that the provisions of the Bill state quite explicitly that the scheme shall apply for only one year. In fact this is one reason why I can support the Bill. But it worries me greatly that those who have applied extreme political pressure to achieve the setting up of the scheme may feel that they have every expectation of further success in the future. I would hope that it can be made abundantly clear that this scheme is in the nature of a one year holding operation to allow individuals, industry leaders and the Government a few precious months in which to formulate and apply appropriate courses of action. The scheme will fail if it induces in the minds of individuals or industry groups a lack of resolve to tackle the urgent problems of the wool industry. This scheme is not an answer to those problems. It is, and must be seen and realised to be, a short term holding operation, lt must not be allowed to mask the need for adjustment and change. 
On this point 1 would like to refer again to a proposal I made in my speech on the Budget earlier this session. As I said then, I firmly believe that the need for an independent survey into the future prospects for wool as an industrial fibre has never been more urgent. Whilst I appreciate the very real efforts of various bodies connected with the wool industry in assessing future trends, it is apparent to everyone that these people have a vested interest in the industry and hence are more likely to unconsciously emphasise the optimistic aspects of any statistics. I believe that in fairness to these bodies, and to the Australian people, this Government should immediately commission an independent survey so that no hints of selective presentation of facts can be levelled at organisations connected with the wool industry, and also so that the Australian people can truly believe that they have been given an unbiased presentation of the prospects of wool as an industrial fibre. If this were done the Government could then make up its mind on what policy it should pursue in a more detached atmosphere than has hitherto, been possible in this case. 
I will support this deficiency payment scheme because it does allow this period in which such a survey could be carried out, but I would like to stress again, as did the honourable member for Wakefield, the need for urgency. Proposals, whatever they are, must be considered and assessed before the end of this short period, and that means urgent action on a number of fronts. There are other aspects of the scheme which disturb me, including the fact that whilst there is a ceiling subsidy price at the lower end of the scale there is no such limit. In other words, the more the realised ave rag* price drops below the subsidy level, the more the Government and the more the taxpayers are up for. Therefore, we are in a vicious cost situation. If the Commission, in order to keep average prices up, is forced to buy at existing or even higher levels, what we save on subsidy is spent on payments to the Commission. There may be, and it can be argued, some hope of getting the money back due to subsequent sales, but if the Commission prices are unrealistic then massive stockpiles with attendant storage costs and subsequent dampening effects on demand will occur. If the average price is allowed to fall below its present level then the cost of the deficiency scheme rises accordingly. Unfortunately, the sales so far contracted this season allow one little hope for a rise in demand and subsequently realised average prices. 
The open ended nature of the scheme could thus not only prove very expensive but is also another strong argument for strict adhesion to its one year operation. I would also like to say that under the present provisions I can no longer see the need to exclude the 10 per cent of wools of an inferior type. I believe this provision was introduced originally to deter the production and presentation of hurry wools. 1 can understand this objective, but now such wools are eligible for deficiency payments. One cannot deter the production of crutchings and other types listed as being excluded because they are an integral part of our wool production, no matter where the sheep is grown or what type of sheep it is. Additionally, the deficiency payment is calculated on the whole clip so no money is being saved by excluding 10 per cent of the clip as being ineligible for payment. In fact, money is being lost because the administrative difficulties and costs associated with policing and delineating the excluded types will be considerable. Unless the Minister has some reason unknown to me for the retention of this aspect of the scheme I can see only administrative turmoil, grower bitterness and cost escalation arising from its implementation. 
The Bill has within it provisions for deficiency payments for wool sold outside the well-known open auction system. I was initially very concerned that such organisations as Economic Wool Producers Ltd may be disadvantaged b&gt; these provisions as deficiency payments are to be made on an assessed price rather than on a realised price for organisations such as this. It seemed to me that the marketing method employed by EWP, which to my mind has so far provided a very clear demonstration of what individual determination, foresight and enterprise can achieve, may have resulted in that company, and similar companies should they be formed, being put at a disadvantage. I would certainly not like to see any obstruction put in the way of any people capable of such self help and enterprise, and I am glad the Minister has assured me that this will not be the case. 
I reiterate the main points of my approach to this scheme. I am sorry that this amount of money will be spent only on the wool industry. I would like to have seen it being spent on an expanded rural reconstruction scheme. It must be clear to everybody - Government, industry leaders and individuals alike - that this scheme is restricted to one year. This restriction places upon us the very real responsibility to ensure that we act quickly to try to come up with some realistic approach to the problems of the wool industry in this one year. Again, I would like to stress my advocacy for the setting up of an independent survey into the future of wool as an industrial fibre. Finally, I am very glad to hear from the Minister that the scheme will not act to the detriment of such enterprising organisations as EWP but, in fact, will safeguard those people who show some enterprise and some ability. 
I refer the Minister for Customs and Excise to the report on indigenous crude oil by  Sir Leslie  Melville which has been tabled in the Parliament. Is it a fact that the report indicates that the price proposed to be charged for the refining of indigenous crude oil by local refiners is above that which could be considered fair and reasonable? Is the Government concerned that, following this report, the price at present agreed for various grades of petrol could be open to question? Does the Government intend to take any action to ensure that Australians are supplied with petrol at a price fair to both supplier and consumer? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, this evening for the second time in 2 weeks we have seen the public humiliation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The man whom he repudiated as the Opposition's shadow Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  has come into this Committee with the support of quite a number of his colleagues, led for the Opposition in this debate and moved the Opposition's amendment. The Leader of the Opposition was not even game to show his face. 
There can be little doubt that Australia's post-war immigration policy, and its implementation, has been remarkably successful. This fact can be gauged from the figures. Although migrants comprised 18.3 per cent of Australia's total population, and 25.3 per cent of the total work force in 1966  -  and these proportions are most probably higher today - so far we have avoided any major clashes, the build up of ethnic groups in ghettoes or the development of racial disharmony and tensions in this country. This is a very proud record. At the same time, our whole way of life, our culture, and our economy have been enriched by the application of a selective immigration policy which has allowed and supported this massive inflow of people from all over the world. This is something which needs to be emphasised and repeated again and again, until people from all oyer the world will realise that Australia's immigration policy is not a racist one bat, like those of most other countries, is a selective one. 
There are 2 aspects of our immigration policy upon which I would like to comment. Firstly, do we need to continue to seek the inflow of new settlers at previous levels, and secondly, should we change our criteria in selecting new settlers? As I said in the Estimates debate last year I believe that the broad lines for selection of immigrants should be on quality, not quantity. I am pleased to see that the Government's policy in this respect has taken notice of the comments that I made. We should be seeking those people most quickly able to assimilate into our society and contribute both economically and culturally to the development of this country. I know and appreciate the work being done by the research groups set up by the Government, which will appreciably assist the assessment of desirable levels of migrant intake, and a host of other factors concerned with immigration. I also applaud the Government for taking a more conservative attitude in respect of the intake of migrants and hope that selection procedures will be appropriately stringent. 
But it is on the second aspect of our immigration policy which I mentioned that I would like to spend some time. Despite what members of the Opposition have said, there is no doubt as to where this Government stands in relation to the criteria used for the selection of migrants, or of the results of the applications of these criteria. On the other hand, recently we have seen various members of the Australian Labor Party, both State and Federal representatives, putting forward views which, to say the least, are often conflicting and in many cases are ambiguous and imprecise. Immigration, with its massive effects on the structure of our society, is a subject of the utmost concern to every person in Australia. I believe it is absolutely essential that the policies of the 2 major parties, and the effect that the implement?.'1 of each would have on this structure of our society should be crystal clear in the minds of everybody in the electorate, so that each person in Australia can have a clear idea about the type and composition of society each party is seeking to achieve. 
As we all know, the Labor Party at its recent conference at Launceston came up with a different form of words for its Party platform in relation to immigration. Whilst it has been argued that the changed words represented no significant change in policy, it is the interpretation of the new words which is of paramount importance. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who, as we all know was described by his own leader as knowing more about immigration than anyone else in the Labor Party - and hence is of insufficient capacity to be retained as shadow minister for immigration - said on 22nd July this year: 
From what I have read in the Press, the changed  vording  of the immigration policy does not  represent  any significant change from my interpretation  of  the policy before the conference. 
But is that the honourable member's own opinion and is it the opinion of the members or is it not? 
What does the Party's P.R. image say? What does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have to say? In his speech to the Perth Press Club last Sunday he said: 
There are 3 alterations which amount to a very distinct change of policy and change of emphasis. 
That is very different from what the honourable member for Grayndler said. Later in the speech the Leader of the Opposition said: 
The emphasis will change from, though sot necessarily entirely take the place of, Governnent search for migrants to Government assistance far those already here. 
Let us have a look at this statement in some depth. Firstly, family reunion has always been given the highest priority in Australia's immigration programme. It has been Government policy for 20 years. But it is also a fact that nominated migrants have produced less than a quarter of the skilled and semi-skilled workers who have come to Australia in recent years. Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition has said that he would allow residents of Australia to nominate not just close relatives but all relatives and friends, and would allow employers to nominate workers as well. Does this mean that employers could nominate workers who would undertake to accept less advantageous wage levels and conditions? I do not know, but I am sure Australian workmen would .be. very interested to know that the Party traditionally seen as representing their interests in fact had an immigration policy which could be interpreted as advocating, introduction of cheap labour. 
But apart from this aspect of what the policy is in relation to non-European migration let. us have a look at other aspects. The Leader of the Opposition says that his policies could result in less non-European migration. Does this accord with the facts and is this what he wants? And is this what the Party wants. By not specifying close relatives, as does the Government, obviously those people in Australia with relatives overseas would be in the best position to nominate people. Equally obvious is it that those people from countries with a lower standard of living than Australia are more likely to have not only more relatives but also more relatives willing and anxious to come to Australia. The Leader of the Opposition said that people, of non-European descent were not likely to come here. He instanced Indians as not being an immigrant people. Now this is absolute and gross nonsense. Obviously he has not caught up with the fact that Australian Government offices in India - as has been said earlier in this debate - have been receiving over 50,000 inquiries a year. And how would he process those? This is what the Leader of the Opposition says but does he speak for his party? We already know that the honourable member for Grayndler has a different interpretation of the policy. How clear is the Leader's own understanding of the policy as he interprets it? I will show you how clear it is. What does the Leader of the Opposition say? He says: 'Do not ask me to speculate as to how we would administer these arrangements'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! Perhaps the next Government supporter might explain policy but this fellow does not intend to. 
I thank you for your impartiality,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I believe all Australians have a right to know just how the Leader of the Opposition would administer his arrangements. Another disturbing aspect of the whole confused mess is the attitude of other members of the Labor Party. Let us have a look at these fellows. The Premier of South Australia has been most outspoken on the issue of non-European migration and has been quoted as saying that he advocated a system of Asian immigration to Australia similar to that operating in Canada, and also of putting the proposition that a homogenous Australia was nonsense and that he would like to see the country as a radical melting pot. The Premier of South Australia and the Leader of the Opposition have both been loud in their praise of the Canadian points system. When one looks at the Canadian figures one finds that of a total intake of 161,500 in 1969, 36,000 were from non-European countries. 
It is not clear whether the Labor Party is advocating and would encourage or permit this level of nonEuropean migrant intake. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Yes. That is an unparliamentary expression and I ask the honourable member for Prospect to withdraw it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - The word lyingly' is unparliamentary. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Prospect definitely referred directly and individually to the honourable member for Warringah. He reflected not on the Party as a whole but on an individual, and therefore he must withdraw it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Prospect to withdraw the remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member can take his second period provided no other honourable member wishes to speak but he cannot have his time extended. 
I thank the House for its indulgence. I was speaking about various members of the Opposition. Let me quote what the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  wrote in the Fabian Newsletter' of August 1970 in an article entitled: 'Why Pay for White Migrants?' In discussing the migration policies so far pursued the honourable member wrote: 
Religious and political tensions are not helped by subsidising migration. It increased the Roman Catholic component of our population and so strengthens the pro-State Aid, which is a kind of pro-segregation movement. It increases the anticommunist, anti-Russian, anti-labor and pro-fascist proportions among our voters, thereby committing us more uncompromisingly to the capitalist bloc and destructive defence policies. 
Is that the policy of honourable members opposite? 
That was the honourable member for Capricornia writing in the 'Fabian Newsletter' last year. Has this attitude to assisted immigration ever been repudiated by any member of the Opposition? Has the avowed leader of honourable members opposite ever spoken on this topic? Has he ever said that he disavows what the honourable member for Capricornia wrote? On immigration as on so many other policy issues, the Labor Party speaks with many tongues. This country and its people deserve better. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Thank you again,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This debate has been quite an interesting one in many respects because members of the Opposition, in citing the opinions of experts to back up their contention that there should not be a tactical trainer at South Head, have quoted at length 2 men, one from the State Planning Authority and another who is an expert on parks and wildlife. As the Minister for the Navy,  (Dr McKay),  who is at the table, and also the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  have already pointed out, the overriding consideration in questions of this sort involves the defence and security of the country. We have heard that considerations of defence were closely taken into account when this decision was made and I believe that this was the right decision to make. 
Like a number of honourable members in this House, I am tremendously concerned about the future of the environment, particularly that surrounding Sydney Harbour because, like the honourable member for Wentworth, I live in a very pleasant area of Sydney and the proposed Sydney Harbour national park is of tremendous interest not only to me and the people in my electorate but also to all the other people of Sydney. I have already had one meeting with the Mosman Municipal Council with respect to the tactical trainer and I am due to have another meeting with the Manly Municipal Council. I will not enter into the arguments because I think the necessity for this installation has already been dealt with by the Minister for the Navy and the honourable member for Wentworth. As I have said, my overriding consideration must be the defence and security of this country and I believe that this requirement is satisfied. 
But I was concerned, as were a number of other people, about the possible damaging effect that the installation of this building could have on the local environment - this tremendously worthwhile and pretty environment of Sydney Harbour. To this end the Council and I discussed this matter at quite some length and I undertook to write to the Minister for the Navy and also to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to put forward some suggestions as to how this tactical trainer building could be made less obtrusive. I must say that the response from both Ministers was very quick and gratifying. They undertook to consider ways and means in which the external facings of this building plus the treatment of the surrounding land could be undertaken in such a fashion that the obtrusion of the building would be minimised. I should like to ask the Minister for the Navy whether he would consider making the proposed plan available to the Parliament so that all honourable members, and the people of Australia, could see what has been done by the Minister in seeking to make this building as unobtrusive as possible. 
1 turn now to the issue of the Sydney Harbour national park. This has been a matter of great interest to me both before and since my election to this Parliament. As I said, I live close to some of the areas involved and 1 represent people who have an extremely close interest in the future of the foreshores of Sydney Harbour. 
If the honourable member will restrain himself he will realise that I am not sabotaging it. The honourable member for Reid said: 'We will protect our heritage when we come to power'. It may be some time before the honourable member for Reid comes to power. However, he said: 'We will protect our heritage'. Surely the initial consideration before any thought is given to the future use to which land should be put must be whether the country is secure. One cannot talk about what one will do unless the aspect of national security is covered. In any deliberations concerning the future of the foreshores of Sydney Harbour involving the changing of defence facilities, prime consideration must be given to whether or not the security of the country will be threatened by their removal or diminution. Having said this, however, I believe that we can go a long way towards a spirit of co-operation between defence requirements and other obvious requirements of the people of Sydney and of Australia. 
How often do people who come into Sydney Harbour look around and say: Look at that marvellous Sydney Harbour foreshore. Look at that land. Look at those trees growing there. Is it not a marvellous thing that these are still there?' They do not look at the crowded building-covered foreshores which are not occupied by the Commonwealth; they look at those areas of land which are occupied by the Commonwealth. I make the point strongly that if it had not been for the Commonwealth occupation of Harbour foreshores there would not be any talk now about a Sydney Harbour national park because that land would all be covered by buildings. I should like honourable members to remember this point. Because the Commonwealth has occupied the land there is now the opportunity and, I believe, the urgent necessity to establish a Sydney Harbour national park. 
I have spoken about defence requirements. This is paramount in my mind. Having said that,I think the use to which the land is then put - if it is not used for defence requirements - must be closely assessed. It cannot be released for unbridled development. The Commonwealth, quite rightly, has deliberated and made it clear that the land which will be released must be used for recreational purposes. I support that decision because I believe that people who live in places like Sydney, which has a high population density, must have the opportunity to get away from the box-like structures which various developers put up and get into areas of recreation where they can commune with nature, fish or do whatever they like to do. I am pleased that the Commonwealth Government has stipulated the use to which the land can be put and I support that decision. 
This matter of public importance refers to the lack of co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government of New South Wales. I have been pursuing this matter for 2 years - ever since I became a member of this Parliament - and I refer honourable members to a question I asked on 30th October 1970 about reports in various newspapers concerning an agreement with the New South Wales State Government for transferring Sydney Harbour foreshore land to that Government. In his reply the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  said: 
The Commonwealth has been negotiating with the Government of New South Wales for some considerable time on the matter of the foreshore land around Sydney. It has been our objective to return to the people of Sydney as much of the foreshore land held by the Commonwealth as could be done provided the defence requirements and the other responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government were not impeded. 
On 14th September this year I asked the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  what was happening with these negotiations and he said: 
Recently a decision was made by the Commonwealth that 550 acres of land on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour would be released to the State Government for recreational purposes. 
As other honourable members have mentioned during this debate, one of the reasons for the hold up in finalising these arrangements has been negotiations with respect to land at Holsworthy and Lucas Heights. Criticism cannot be levelled at the Commonwealth Government nor can it be suggested that there is a lack of cooperation because there has been continuous dialogue between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government concerning the release of these foreshore lands. I am extremely pleased with what is happening. I have been trying to stimulate interest in the release of such lands. I believe the Commonwealth Government's approach has been responsible. It has said that initially we must safeguard the defence security of Australia but within that requirement we will release land around Sydney Harbour. However, it will be released for recreation purposes only. The Commonwealth Government has negotiated with the State Government on that basis, and I think it is a fair and reasonable basis on which to negotiate. Like other honourable members, I support the establishment of a Sydney Harbour national park and I will continue to work for it just as hard as I have done in the past - and that has been pretty hard too. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry and I refer him to statements by various responsible people suggesting, in view of the present wool situation, that a limitation on wool production may be imposed. In view of the nature of the production of wool, could he inform me what methods could be used to achieve such production limitations and whether any plans for such production limitations are being considered? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen a report detailing some gratuitous advice by the Leader of the Opposition to the Japanese Government with respect to that country's diplomatic relations with Taiwan? Has the Minister received any communications from the Japanese Embassy in Australia acclaiming the Leader of the Opposition's diplomatic offensive on behalf of the People's Republic of China? 
I support the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport, but like the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  I am particularly concerned at the picture presented in the 1971 annual report of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. As the honourable member for Newcastle has said, but not in this detail, the figures revealed in the report show an increase in net loss of Australian coastal and charter operations from $210,612 in 1970 to $452,479 in the last financial year. This loss was sustained despite the rise in general cargo rates of 12.5 per cent early in the year. I realise the industrial disputes contributed largely to the operating costs and detracted from revenue. The  Chairman  in his report refers to the fact that the 'Darwin Trader' though still at this time a losing proposition, represents, or should do so, a considerable improvement'. We could not say that this was a wildly optimistic statement, but at least the position with respect to coastal operations is not nearly as worrying as that revealed in the report with respect to the overseas services. With respect to those overseas services the bald figures spelt out by the report state that the net trading loss on overseas services has risen from $1,964,753 in the financial year 1969-70 to $2,573,952 in the financial year 1970-71. 
It is this loss which causes me particular concern. We all know that the desire to carry at least some of Australia's exports overseas in Australian ships and to gain access to details of the financial arrangements and costs of the shipping conferences were behind the Government's decision to enter the international shipping field. Very few people in Australia would quarrel with the propriety, the forward thinking, of such objectives. However it is the results of the implementation of measures designed to achieve the objectives which must be looked at when assessing the viability or otherwise of the exercise. It is this assessment of the results achieved so far and the publicly stated views of future operations which give rise to my misgivings. Bearing in mind the figures I have already quoted, I point out that the  Chairman  in his report had this to say: 
The cellular container ship 'Australian Endeavour' engaged in the Australia-United KingdomEurope trade as apart of the service offered by Associated Container Transportation Australia Ltd has run at a heavy loss again this financial year. 
We have already pointed that out. Then follows a most disturbing sentence: 
This experience is reputedly common to all owners of similar vessels in the area, and most, the Commission included, are not optimistic that profits will be forthcoming in the immediate future. 
The  Chairman  then went on to detail the difficulties which have been experienced. 
Industrial disputes, congestion at wharf terminals, the burden of servicing, the capital cost of the shore facilities provided, the need to control the movement of thousands of containers spread throughout Europe and Australia are just some of the things he has mentioned. He then went on to say that they 'form the background to the widely expressed dissatisfaction with the concept'. The concept he was talking about, of course, was this cellular container ship concept. 
Although it is only fair to point out that the  Chairman  expressed some hope for improvement, the unmistakable impression is given that the gravest doubts are being expressed about the future of cellular container ships as viable propositions on the Australia-United Kingdom-Europe trade. If this gave me cause for concern the next section of the report magnifies my disquiet. The report states: 
Next year the cellular container ships now being built for the Commission in Bremen, Germany, will enter the trade between the Commonwealth and the east coast of North America in conjunction wilh similar vessels owned by Associated Container Transportation Australia Ltd. It can be anticipated that in this service too, financial results in the early period will be influenced by some of the same factors which have adversely affected the Australia-United Kingdom-Europe sector. 
The  Chairman  of the Commission obviously anticipates and shares my concern when he states in his report: 
On the face of it, the question may well be asked as to whether vessels under the Australian flag are competitive and, if not, whether the concept of an Australian overseas merchant fleet is worth pursuing, and notably as regards the 'Australian Endeavour' where the loss has been so heavy. 

 His opinion of cellular container ships can easily be perceived by his statement that the loss did not come about because running cost differentials were great, but 'because of the slow turnround and disabilities suffered by every cellular shipowner in the trade'. We therefore must now once again assess our position. Our operating cellular container ship is costing the nation $2. 5m a year to run. We have the immediate prospect of adding to this cost when the second cellular container ship comes into operation next year. Not only are we faced with the near certainty of greatly increased operating losses, but the capital costs of approximately $40m associated with the venture are enormous. What do we get in return? In terms of these ships, and in contrast to other types which I will mention in a few moments, we have an inflexible system, with limited and costly access facilities, loading, unloading and distribution difficulties, capable of carrying only a limited number of types of cargo efficiently. Most of these types of cargo are not exported in any quantity from Australia. Our principal exports, which are still primary products of various kinds, are mainly not suited to containerisation, and if they are so transported the costs are correspondingly high because of the inefficiencies which must occur, because of their unsuitability for such transport methods. 
Additionally, it seems that we have a substantial unused freight capacity by liner out of Australia. What makes the situation more poignant is that not only are those exporters least able to withstand high freight costs most likely to be affected, but also there are already operating different types of ships - the vehicle deck vessels, which the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned, which have their own ramping arrangements allowing them to work both at container wharves and at berths without special facilities. 
It would appear to me that these multipurpose types of ships have substantial advantages over the cellular container vessels, with a degree of flexibility both in type of cargo capable of being efficiently carried, and in berth usage, which makes them a seemingly much more attractive proposition. It seems to me that unfortunately we may have become embroiled in a highly costly experiment, with the active ingredients of that experiment rendered partly obsolete by technological change. If the experiences of all owners and operators of cellular container ships are similar to our own - and the report of the  Chairman  of the Commission suggests that this is so - it cannot be said that the fault lies entirely with our management. It could be that these ships themselves are not living up to their initial promise. 
In these circumstances I fervently hope that the Government is keeping this whole matter under the closest scrutiny, particularly in terms of the costs and returns and the suitability of the types of ships it is operating. It seems to me that it would be tragic if considerations of questionable national pride or stubbornness are allowed to obscure a situation in which the return for our large investment is unsatisfactory, either because we have chosen the wrong sorts of ships or because of the terms under which we entered the various shipping conferences. The benefits must be carefully weighed against the demerits, and if necessary a decision made to cut our losses before they reach truly astronomical proportions. 

 - Mr Chairman, at the outset let me say that I believe that any reply to the address of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  would give it a status that it does not deserve. There can be little doubt that the situation facing Australia in terms of our foreign relations is probably more uncertain and more challenging than at any previous stage in this country's development. Not only are the major power relationships with respect to the area of South East Asia and the Indian and Pacific oceans regions in a state of some fluidity, but the position is complicated by the problems of emerging and newly emergent nations in the area. Added to this we have the continuing unrest generated by guerrilla warfare and so called wars of national liberation and the very real possibility of a major confrontation between India and Pakistan. Obviously in the time available I cannot hope to deal with all these situations, but there are a couple of aspects on which I would like to comment. 
Firstly, with respect to Australia's role in the region, I believe that we can play a most important and stabilising one. Because of our geographic situation, our cultural background, our economic strength and our political stability, we have an unequalled opportunity to act as a bridge between East and West. Britain has of course been a major military and economic power in the region for as long as we have existed as a nation. Despite the decision to maintain a small force in the region, there can be little doubt that Britain is primarily interested in affairs closer to home, even though she retains a strong commercial link in the area.  Her  decision to join the European Economic Community was to my mind almost inevitable, but nevertheless it has far reaching effects not only for Australia but for many countries of the South Pacific community, and to the world. The EEC will command almost 40 per cent of world trade. That is a colossal trading bloc by any terms. I believe that there is a real danger that the Community could become more inward looking, erect even more formidable trade barriers and hence become even more isolationist. I believe that every effort must be made to prevent this occurring, and that Australia should use every endeavour to persuade Britain to exert its influence to ensure that the EEC does not become a closed shop but in fact fulfils a function in keeping world trade active. 
The enunciation of the Nixon doctrine, the running down of American military involvement in South East Asia, and the impending visit by  President  Nixon to China contribute greatly to the need for fresh appraisals of Australia's position in the area. Australia has, I believe, a highly favourable relationship with the United States and again is in a unique position to put a strong point of view to that country with respect to South East Asia. It has become a popular sport throughout the world to decry the efforts of the Americans at a time when America appears to be bedevilled by self doubt and racked with self criticism, when the leadership of that country is attacked by elements seeking to destroy a system which by its democratic nature, allows such elements to exist, when there is a greater persuasion to retreat to an isolationist role than for many years. In these circumstances it is absolutely essential that America be made aware of the very real successes it has achieved in allowing the small nations of our region at least some hope of continuing as independent and sovereign states. The dangers, not only to Australia, but to all the small states of South East Asia should America retreat within itself are self-evident. Australia should, and I hope will, take a role both in America and in South East Asia in bringing home to the leaders in both areas the worth and essentiality of continued American presence. 
Similarly with respect to Japan and the manner of its future involvement in the region, Australia should play a positive role. It is my belief that Japan should be encouraged to take a more active diplomatic role in the region than has been the case since the Second World War. There is no doubt that many countries of the region have a lingering doubt as to the intentions of Japan, following their unfortunate experiences in the Second World War. There is nothing to be gained by fostering old animosities, or allowing them to continue, should the opportunity occur to break them down. Here again Australia is in a unique position. This country has no ageold disputes with any nation to our north; there is no traditional enmity nurtured over many years. Japan, as the third industrial power in the world, obviously has an interest in conducting firm and continuing relations with the countries of South East Asia, and it is in our best interests, both in terms of trade and as a basis for stability within the region, that the Japanese are not regarded with suspicion as militaristic and economic dominators, but as valued trading partners and trusted neighbours. Again I believe Australia should play a positive role in encouraging the development of this situation. 
I mentioned at the beginning of this speech that one of the factors adding to the rapidly changing nature of the region is the position of the newly independent - or about to be independent - states within the region. If one looks at the changes in the status of territories which have occurred since the Second World War, one sees a history of accelerating progression towards independence throughout the region. This progression is continuing, and will do so for some time. Australia's position as arguably the most economically advanced country in the region is of enormous importance, but I believe this importance is not recognised by the average Australian citizen. I believe that we Australians have not grasped the fact that our immediate neighbours look to us to provide leadership and support in assisting in the development of other countries and contributing to the stability and progress of the region. 
Along with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  I was recently at the meeting of the South Pacific Conference in Noumea, where representatives from all the territories of the South Pacific came together formally to discuss development projects carried out in conjunction with the South Pacific Commission, and to take advantage of the opportunity for informal discussions on a wide range of topics. Viewed from the outside, through the eyes of the representatives of the Pacific peoples, Australia is a huge, resource rich, economic power, which has not taken enough interest in the future development and well being of the countries of the South Pacific. I detected a feeling that Australia was considered to be almost totally concerned with the problems of Papua and New Guinea, with little real interest in any of the other territories of the South Pacific region. Whilst I believe this impression to be over critical, I do believe that we should do much more to contribute to the development of the South Pacific region. For a relatively small expenditure we could enter into bilateral aid arrangements which would have an enormous influence on the wellbeing of the small territories and would have the added advantage of building up a goodwill which I believe is greatly lacking at the moment. 
Whether we like it or not, we are regarded as having a position of great consequence in this area of the world. We should do much more to develop trade and communication networks as well as assisting in more developmental projects. I believe we as a nation should recognise and accept the responsibilities which our position, our natural wealth, and our economic development impose upon us. We should provide leadership, assistance, and constructive diplomacy in a region which I regard as the most interesting and challenging in the world. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the widespread public concern about the fact that a young man sought by Commonwealth Police in relation to his refusal to comply with the requirements of the National Service Act appeared last week on a current affairs programme presented by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I understand that the PostmasterGeneral initiated an inquiry into this matter. I ask him: Has this inquiry been completed? If so, what are the findings of this inquiry? 
My question is directed lo the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. Did Economic Wool Producers Ltd recently complete its second sale of wool using selling methods of a very different nature from the traditional open auction method? Was there a clearance of 100 per cent of the wool offered, in contrast to the much lower clearance achieved at the recent Australian Wool Commission's sales which attempted the same selling methods? Was the average price achieved at the EWP sale above the 36c per lb average set for the wool deficiency payment, despite the absence of bids from the largest wool buyer in Australia, the Australian Wool Commission? Would the activities of enterprising companies such as the EWP be jeopardised by any plan for total acquisition of the Australian wool clip? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the very understandable anxiety of a number of people in Australia concerning the safety of their relatives or friends in India or Pakistan, has the Government accounted for all Australian nationals in those 2 countries, and what arrangements are being made to ensure the safety of these Australians? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourablethe  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in BanglaDesh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. This petition of supporters of the Committee to Stop Duffy's Forest Airport respectfully showeth that: 
There is a public controversy over the decision to establish an airport at Duffy's Forest, situated in the metropolitan area of Sydney. 
There is a strong case for the lease of 99 acres of Crown land presently being offered by the State Government of New South Wales to the Commonwealth Government for an airport site to be revoked, and that part of the Crown land which contains the Wianamatta shale cap to be preserved for all time for the people of Australia by being included in the boundaries of the Kuringgai Chase National Park. If the airport ls established there will be extensive damage to the ecology of natural bushland over a widespread area. 
Noise pollution will have a detrimental effect over a widespread area of the suburbs surroundings the Chase. 
We believe that it is essential to protect the recreational nature and peace of Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park both now and for the future. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that your honourable house will at once, in the public interest, take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government revokes the lease of the Crown land belonging to the State of New South Wales and ceases all negotiations for purchases of 37 acres of land  privately owned which comprise the 136 acres necessary for the airport site and abandon the proposal to establish a'n airport at Duffy's Forest. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Education and Science. I refer him to an allegation contained in a letter to a newspaper this morning that the Federal Government is providing state aid for a school in Sydney owned and operated by Japanese nationals. I ask the Minister: Is there any truth in this allegation? 
I was most interested to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  conclude by reading out  some  aspects of his Party's policy on decentralisation. This bears very closely on what has been said today because one member of his Party obviously cannot agree with that policy as he has moved for the appointment of a select committee to investigate these aspects of decentralisation. 
Members of the Opposition seem surprised when the Government refuses to countenance the setting up of various select committees. But I wonder whether members of the Opposition realise just how many select committees they have proposed establishing in the life of this Parliament. I wonder whether they realise the physical problems associated with setting up and servicing that number of select committees. I think that it might be useful for the Australian people and for members of the Opposition to know the number of select committees that the Opposition has proposed during this Parliament. 
Proposals by the Opposition have been made to appoint select committees to inquire into the following Bills: The Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill, the Air Navigation Bill, the Social Services Bill, the Superannuation Bill, the Repatriation Bill, the Social Services Bill (No. 2), the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill, the Post and Telegraph Bill, the Repatriation Bill (No. 2), the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill (1970) and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill .1970. 
The appointment of select committees has been proposed to deal with airport and harbour development, decentralisation and an amendment to the motion that the House take note of the paper - 'Service Employment, Committee of Inquiry' seeking the appointment of a joint select committee. Not content with that, 6 motions seeking the suspension of Standing Orders to enable motions to be moved proposing the appointment of select committees have been moved by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam),  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  the honourable member for Bendigo (Mi Kennedy) and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  In all, 21 addi tional select committees have been proposed by the Opposition during the life of this Parliament. Anybody in his right senses would realise that the members of this Parliament have more to do than merely belong to select committees of this Parliament. If . every request for the appointment of a select committee proposed by the Opposition was taken up, 21 select committees would be operating in the House of Representatives. One wonders why, in this proliferation of requests for select committees, the Opposition is not brave enough to decide policies for itself and to come out and tell the Australian people what its policies are instead of hiding behind requests for the establishment of select committees which would result in other people doing the work of the Opposition for it while its members get on with the internal strife which dogs the Australian Labor Party. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has opened up a most interesting area of debate. I agree with quite a number of things that the honourable member has said. This is an area in which we are all tremendously interested not only as members of Parliament but as dwellers in this country. The honourable member seemed surprised that the proportion of people on the land was declining. I cannot understand why this fact comes as such a surprise to members of the Opposition. The historical fact is that, as the economy of a country develops sophistication, a declining proportion of that country's population will be engaged in rural industry. This has happened everywhere in the world. Yet this development seems to come as a bit of a surprise to members of the Opposition and particularly the honourable member for Corio. It is not hard, if one thinks about it - without the need to set up a select committee - to find out the reasons for this decline. 
This decline has occurred not only in the numbers of people with country holdings but also in small country towns and their populations. If one investigates or thinks about this trend, it is not very difficult to come up with an answer as to the reasons for the development. There has been an accelerating technological change in the carrying on of the business of primary production all over the world. As a country becomes agriculturally more sophisticated, the technical change in the machinery which is used to produce primary products inevitably whittles away the number of human beings required to take part in agricultural production. The number of people required to perform rural work inevitably declines as technical change proliferates in country areas. But not only has this occurred but also has the demand for services in small country towns declined. 
Other changes occur as economic sophistication increases in a country. A most important one which has nol been mentioned during this debate is the improvement in transport facilities available to country people. I refer not only to the motor car and light aircraft in more remote areas but also to the quality and extent of the road system. I come from a small country town. T can remember very clearly the numbers of horses and sulkies that were to be seen in the country areas of north western New South Wales just after the Second World War. Now, a sulky is virtually a museum piece. It would be unusual to find' a horse and sulky being used anywhere in country areas. The resUlt is that people not only have the opportunity to travel more widely but also in many cases have the facility to travel and do travel more widely than they did. 
Where do they go? They go to the larger country areas and they go to the cities more frequently than they did in the past. I can remember when it was really a big effort to travel 330 miles from the north west of New South Wales to Sydney. One thought about this trip for some days and prepared for it most carefully. It could take up to  2  days in an old Morris car. Now one can literally hop into ones car and undertake this trip in 8 hours or less. The reason for the decline in smaller country towns, which is being called into question today, is not only that not as much farm work by country citizens is required as was in the past but also that the land owners living around the small country towns do not need the provision of the back up facilities that they had in the past. 
In addition, cultural opportunities for people in small country towns are limited when compared with those available in larger country towns and in cities. It is only to be expected that the brightest sons of people in country areas will look for opportunities in places where they can realise their potential. They will seek opportunities for varied and interesting jobs. In other words, the pressure on them to move from country areas will be very strong.  1  deplore this. I deplore the necessity for it. But we must face the facts - -something which the Labor Party is not noted for doing. We must realise that this will occur and we should not be surprised when it does. 1 have been emphasising ma. nl, the situation with respect to the smaller country towns. This pressure for movement is not so great in the larger country towns which have built up a certain amount of industrialisation. Another point is that cities of a reasonable size - I. am not referring to capital cities - offer considerable attractions for people from the country. This is particularly so with respect to. seaside cities. Those people who have lived in inland Australia, particularly in the hotter area's, will know just how pleasant it is at times lo get away from the physical conditions which obtain in those areas of Australia and go to a seaside town. Job opportunities and the variety of employment offered there are much greater and this is a big incentive for people to go to the cities. In addition the cultural opportunities are much hotter for people in cities than they are in country towns, particularly the small country towns. 
The honourable member for Corio and other honourable members have quite rightly recognised the disadvantages of city dwelling, particularly in the major cities of Melbourne and Sydney. As we have heard frequently in this chamber, land costs in those cities have risen quite markedly, forcing people to move further and further out and developing the so-called urban sprawl with ali the problems that it engenders. We have overcrowding in many areas of the cities and this again leads to a whole series of physical and psychological problems. Transport difficulties in the major cities act as a deterrent to ' many people who might otherwise come to the cities, and quite rightly so. It is ridiculous that one spends up to  20  per cent of one's waking hours travelling to and from work. The environmental disturbance occurring in major cities is something which is quite properly becoming much more important. People are realising that if they want to live in circumstances which appear delightful to them they must pay for efforts to overcome environmental disturbance. They are realising also that in blindly building up major cities they are making a rod for their backs. A serious problem in major cities at the moment is the increase in the crime rate. These are just some of the features of city life which act as deterrents to people coming to major cities. 
But let us face the situation and be honest about it. At the moment we have not only the historical pressures moving people from rural areas to city areas but also the rural crisis, the diminution of prices and. the loss of viability . of many rural enterprises. We have very strong factors moving people towards better job opportunities, a greater variety of jobs and better cultural facilities which are available to them in the cities. It will not do very much good to set up a select committee to inquire into these problems. The problems are before us and have been appreciated on both sides of the House. Why on earth would anybody set up a select committee to inquire into them? Anybody who has been a member of a select committee will know the time that it takes to conduct an investigation. The Leader of the Opposition detracts a little from this fact. He said it does not take very much time at all. The problems are more urgent than was suggested by the honourable member for Corio when moving this motion. It is just procrastination to suggest that we set up a select committee to inquire into these matters. 
Nothing has been said about the responsibilities of the States in this respect. It is a typical Australian Labor Party proposal - Let us centralise the whole thing and we will provide the money'. It is another example of the way in which the Opposition would detract from the sovereignty of the States and the very real responsibilities of the States. Not a word was said about co-operation with the States in analysing this problem and seeking a solution. The Opposition says: 'Let us set up a select committee' - the 21st select committee that has been proposed in 2 years, 
The Leader of the Opposition said that his policy was to select certain country towns. This, on the face of it, sounds tremendous. But he has not the courage to say which country towns he would select. He has not done this for the very good reason that he knows that as soon as he selects one country town or city he will have the rest of the country areas up in arms. He will gain votes in one place but lose votes in the other rural areas of Australia. Let us be perfectly frank about it. We on this side of the House, and I in the Budget debate this year, have outlined the problems of people in rural areas - and city areas - caused by the drift to the cities. I agree that there is a very real need, and I have said so, to develop growth centres in areas outside the major cities. But I cannot and will not agree that the way to do this is to set up the 21st proposed select committee of this Parliament to investigate the problems which are apparent not only to honourable members in this House but also to the State governments. The State governments have gone by the board in the measures proposed by the Opposition. Nothing has been said about the very real efforts of the New South Wales Government and its Department of Decentralisation. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and I refer to the investment allowance on new plant and capital equipment recently re-introduced by the Government. I understand that neither leasing companies nor their clients can claim the advantage of the relevant Act and that a significant proportion of clients of leasing companies are small to medium size companies with little ready access to equity. I ask the Treasurer: What is the reason for what appears to be discrimination against a sector of the finance industry? Will the Treasurer review the decision to exclude leasing companies or their clients from the benefits of the Act? 
I refer the Treasurer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programme 'Monday Conference' screened last night on which  Mr Gordon  Barton, the convenor of the Australia Party, appeared. I quote from a transcript of that programme.  Mr Barton  said: I was concerned about trends in the Australian economy last August when I was abroad- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I raise this matter of public importance because yesterday newspapers throughout Australia carried a report of a call to Australians to occupy the streets of Melbourne in a protest about the Vietnam war. The newspaper reports also stated that amongst the aims of the organisation calling the demonstration was the ending of the United States-Australia alliance. I want to make it quite clear to the House that the aim of the street demonstration is to support North Vietnam. Spelling out these aims and making the 'call for a mass return to the streets' - I use his words - was the shadow Minister for Trade and Industry, the honourable member for Lalor (Or J. F. Cairns). 
It is true to say that in the past fair and reasonable men and women have expressed doubts as to the nature and conduct of the war in Vietnam. There have been many arguments as to the causes and the conduct of it. But I submit with respect to the present situation that there is absolutely no doubt at all as to which army crossed the demilitarised zone in the last 2 weeks. There is no doubt at all that at least 3 divisions of the North Vietnamese regular troops crossed the demilitarised zone in flagrant breach of the first, fifth and sixth Articles of the  1954  Geneva Agreement on the cessation of hostilities in Vietnam. I remind honourable members of those Articles. Article  1  states that 'A provisional military demarcation line shall be fixed'. It also goes on to state that 'a demilitarised zone shall be established' in order to avoid the resumption of hostilities. Article  5  refers to the avoidance of any incidents which might result in the resumption of hostilities and it goes on to state that 'all military forces, supplies and equipment shall be withdrawn from the demilitarised zone'. Article  6  states: 
No person, military or civilian, shall be permitted to cross the provisional demarcation line unless specifically authorised to do so by the Joint Commission. 
Yet in the last  2  weeks Divisions Nos  304, 308  and  324b  of the North Vietnamese Regular Army have crossed that demilitarised zone. There can be absolutely no argument about this. Yet the honourable member for Lalor and his supporters are calling on Australians to support this invasion. 
This latest aggression is not the only example of North Vietnam's military expansion. I would remind the House that North Vietnamese forces are at present operating in, fighting in and killing in Laos and Cambodia, as well as South Vietnam. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who is not in the chamber at the present but who is a man not noted for his opposition to leftist causes, was himself forced to admit after a visit to Cambodia that that country was suffering invasion from North Vietnam. This armed invasion has not ceased, yet Australians are, being asked to support the invaders. There can be no argument that North Vietnam is a communist state. It supports, encourages and carries out subversion, murder, kidnapping, bomb and rocket attacks on innocent civilians, as well as carrying on the more conventional types of warfare. No less an authority than the great god Mao has said, when he has talked about war, that there should be no concern for stupid scruples about benevolence, righteousness and morality in war. Yet these are the people whom Australians are being called upon to support in the streets of Melbourne. 
Let us have a look at how North Vietnam conducts the war. North Vietnam has consistently refused to allow International Red Cross inspection of prisoner of war camps. It has consistently refused to release full details of the prisoners of war held. It refuses to allow regular mail supplies to prisoners of war. It refuses to allow repatriation of sick and wounded prisoners of war. All these refusals are in direct contravention of the provisions of the Geneva convention on the treatment of prisoners of war. Yet Australians are being asked to support these people. 
For  7  years Australians have fought and died and Americans and their allies have fought and died in Vietnam. For much longer South Vietnamese, Laotians and Cambodians have fought and died to protect their own country from being militarily over-run and subjugated by the communists of North Vietnam. Yet Australians are being asked to support the North Vietnamese. In the very simplest terms, the honourable member for Lalor and those supporting his aims are asking Australians to support a totalitarian regime and to reject and humiliate Australia's strongest ally. They are asking Australians to cast aside that nation which has supported Australia in  2  world wars; which, in the darkest hours of World War II, received an almost hysterical call for help from an Australian Labor Prime Minister, which responded to that call and has continued to respond and provide Australia with its greatest security against any external threat. The honourable member for Lalor would have us destroy that trust and security. 
Perhaps this report and its implications would not be so alarming if it were just another obscure Labor Party backbencher making the call, but it is not, and this is what gives the. situation added danger. The honourable member for Lalor is a senior ALP shadow Minister. There can be no question of that. There can be no question also that if the Labor Party came to power tomorrow or at the next elections he would be a senior Cabinet Minister responsible for defence operations in this country and with access to all the secret negotiations which this country must continue with its allies. It is not as though he lacks support within his Party. Indeed,' the very opposite is true.. For he is widely acclaimed as being the leader of the Left within the ALP. It is only a couple of weeks ago that 2 Labor members within this House - the honourable members for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and Hunter  (Mr James)  - rose and praised and lauded him for his knowledge, his humanity and his strivings for peace. Actually I think it was his contributions to the peace movement in Australia- yet another Communist front. 
It is worth while to examine again the newspaper report to see what are really the aims of the honourable member for Lalor and his supporters. I think it cannot be denied that the newspaper report makes it clear that they support a Communist power - an enemy of Australia - and reject our strongest ally. The newspaper report makes it quite clear that the honourable member and his supporters do not seek but demand* - I use the word advisedly because it appears in the report - the end of the United States-Australian alliance. This brings the question of the alliance and the future of such agreements to ANZUS right out into the open. It has been known for many years that the forces of the Left within the ALP have sought to downgrade and destroy an alliance with the United States. We all remember the occasion when the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  then Leader of the Opposition, and the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  were ordered by the ALP organisation to oppose the establishment of the North West Cape installation. 
The attitude of the ALP Left Wing has been clearly shown by the reactions of such notables as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  to the establishment of the defence installations at Pine Gap. It was reflected in the attitude of the honourable member for Lalor when, in response to questions in May of last year, he stated that the ALP Left Wing had a very good chance of winning Federal Conference and Executive leadership of the Party. When questioned as to what changes this would bring if it occurred, the honourable member replied that the ALP policy would be changed to bring an end to the principle that the United States alli ance is crucial and that there would be  a  beginning of support for the human rights revolution around the world, more often expressed in the national liberation movements. We all know what happened at the Launceston conference just a couple of months after the honourable member for Lalor made his predictions. According to newspaper reports of the time it was only after the Leader of the Opposition had said that it would put an intolerable ' burden on the Party's electoral prospects to Completely discard the United States alliance that a compromise was reached. As we know, the Conference deleted reference to the crucial importance of the United States alliance and substituted a form of words which were to emasculate the ANZUS Treaty and make it a vague convention on human rights. Now, despite this compromise, the eventual result is obviously a win for the forces of the Left within the ALP. It is also very clear that this Left Wing victory was not an isolated thing but that, in fact, in any Labor government the Left would have the decisive votes. Yesterday's statement in the paper brought the issues into clear focus. It is absolutely no use for the Leader of the Opposition to cloud and dissemble on this issue. We have had frequent protestations both within and outside this House by the Leader of the Opposition endeavouring to support the view that the ALP has not changed its attitude towards the United States alliance but, in fact, has ' strengthened it. 
These statements have now been given the lie once and for all by one of his senior colleagues - a man who came within a few votes of defeating the Leader of the Opposition in a contest for the leadership of his Party. They have been given the lie by the report of the call by the honourable member for Lalor for Australian action in support of a Communist state. They have been given the lie by an unequivocal demand for the end of the US-Australian alliance. It must not be imagined by anybody within or outside this House that the forces of the Left within the ALP are insignificant, because they are not. In this House all too frequently we get examples of their thinking. Only a few weeks ago we heard the honourable member for St 
George  (Mr Morrison)  not only making wild, unsubstantiated charges but also expressing the opinion that international agreements were not worth the paper on which they were written. We have seen and heard at first hand the ALP's approach to Australia's responsibilities under the Five Power arrangements. We know that the Labor Party would not hesitate to take action to destroy that agreement despite continued statements from our near northern allies about the significance and worth of such arrangements. (Quorum formed) 
It must be enormously comforting for our enemies to know that within the Labor Party in Australia, occupying positions of seniority and influence, are people who espouse the causes of our enemies. It must be disturbing, to say the least, to our allies to know that a significant power group within the ALP is antagonistic to our alliances and would seek to avoid our responsibilities. It should be of crucial importance to every Australian to know and appreciate that the very security of this country could be threatened should the Australian Labor Party, as presently composed, ever come to power. 
I ask the Minister for Social Services whether he has received any apology from the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for Bendigo for false statements concerning the origins of the policy of withholding unemployment benefits from men on strike, a claim made against him in this House- 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to pre serve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister and refer to the Treasurer's statement of 22nd February last giving details of the Government's policies with respect to overseas investments by Australian residents. In view of the fact that overseas firms and agents can buy equity interests in Australian companies, thereby acquiring not only profits but also some influence on the operations of such companies, will the Prime Minister consider the implementation of policies designed to broaden the scope and nature of overseas investments by Australian residents to allow them to acquire equity interests in overseas companies, particularly those operating in Australia but not listed on Australian stock exchanges? 
The House has been treated to another set piece from the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  The only thing I can say about his speech is that the figures he quoted bear no relation to the official figures. I can only adjure him to check his figures before he makes such a speech. He might not like to do this because accuracy might spoil his case. I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who said there has been an urgent need for rural reconstruction for some years. If there has been such a need for some years, obviously the honourable member for Dawson, as the Opposition spokesman on primary industry, would have been calling for some rural reconstruction scheme. To my knowledge the first major party to call for rural reconstruction was the Liberal Party when it published its rural guidelines early in 1970. 
I congratulate the Government, and particularly the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  upon taking on board the aims of these rural guidelines and bringing into the House last year solutions for the long term problems of the rural industries. This - and again I congratulate the Government - was a realisation of the necessity for a broad approach to the problems of the rural industries. The aim was, as we have heard expressed many times from the 
Government side, to establish viable rural industries and also viable individuals within rural industry. For this reason I think that the advent of this rural reconstruction scheme last year was an occasion for offering some congratulation to the Government. The second reading and third reading stages were concluded on 5th May last year. 
We have heard that the provisions include the supply of $100m over 4 years. Of this sum, 50 per cent was for debt reconstruction and 50 per cent was for farm buildup. The third section of the scheme embraces the field of rehabilitation. Under the original provisions of the scheme the rehabilitation segment provided for a maximum of $1,000, but it provided also that the property of a person seeking the rehabilitation payment must be purchased under the conditions of farm buildup. There were a couple of aspects of the scheme which I found at that time particularly attractive. One of them was the builtin flexibility. This has been attacked by the honourable member for Riverina, but I do not think that the attack can be given much credence for obviously it is a most responsible action on the part of the Government to review a scheme of this nature, to see how it is working and, if there are certain problems or actions that should be taken, not to wait too long to correct them, or reorganise or re-aim - if I may use that word - the objects of the scheme. It is a good thing that the review has taken place. 
Although the honourable member for Riverina would have it that the meetings between the State Ministers and the Federal Minister were acrimonious affairs, I am afraid that my information is completely at variance with his. The result of the scheme so far has been that the States approved, up to the beginning of April, the expenditure of $59.6m, $49. 8m of which has been approved for debt reconstruction, $9.8m for farm buildup and $29,500 for rehabilitation. There were 3 meetings of some of the Ministers involved in March, and again I must say that I believe it is a good thing that this example of cooperative federalism is before the House. The Federal Government is not taking a dictatorial attitude, imposing its will on the State governments. This is, as I say, co operative federalism, with the States and the Commonwealth working together to achieve a mutually satisfactory result. 
The alterations have already been canvassed in this debate. The amount of SI 00m, instead of being paid over 4 years, will now be paid over 2 years. There is an added flexibility built in with the debt reconstruction and farm buildup provisions. There are extended terms of repayment: they are from 20 years to 30 years at the discretion of the State authorities. This is a significant advance in the provisions of the rural reconstruction scheme, lt has quite a significant effect on the interest payments which the recipients of money have to face, and I think that this is one point that will be welcomed by those people who have access to the scheme and come within its provisions. The rehabilitation aspects of the scheme have been changed also, and the maximum amount payable for rehabilitation has gone from $1,000 to $3,000. I will have a little bit more to say about that later. Additionally, an extra $15m has been committed for carryover into the financial year 1973-74. This again is a realistic approach to the problems which the States would have in the administration of the scheme. 
Although I have been fairly congratulatory in my remarks so far, I do have some criticisms of the way the scheme has been drawn up and the way it is being implemented. First, it must be remembered that the original concept of the scheme put equal emphasis on farm buildup and debt reconstruction. I agree that this is an excellent thing. I would hope that the States in administering the scheme over the next year or so will not take too much advantage of the added flexibility which they have been allowed. I think it would be a bad thing if too much emphasis were placed on debt reconstruction to the detriment of farm buildup. 
The other thing about farm buildup and debt reconstruction is that a lot of very good farmers are ruled out by the provisions of the scheme because they have access to other credit facilities. They are some of the best farmers within the agricultural industry and it does seem a little bit unfair to me that the good farmers, those people who presumably would have most hope of coping with severe troubles and severe financial stresses within their industries, should be ruled out of access to the scheme. These people, because of their viability, because they are good farmers, because they have built up sound credit ratings, are forced to pay higher interest charges for overdrafts or short term loans. It seems to me to be a little bit unfair that the best farmers, those people who have developed this enviable reputation and who have access, because of the soundness of their farming methods, to other credit are not eligible to take part in this scheme. There are others in a much worse financial situation without equal hope of survival who do get these concessions. 
I have referred already to the Liberal Party's rural policy booklet, but in addition we have a policy within the Liberal Party for the provision of long term finance to fanners to enable those farmers restricted by an excessive short term debt, but whose record of operations indicated viability in the longer term, to restructure that debt and service it without suffering the crippling effects of the combination of high interest and capital repayments. We believe that the loans should be for long term duration, such as the ones under the rural reconstruction scheme, and we believe also that the amount of the loans should be substantial, preferably without limit. So while congratulating the Government upon implementing this rural reconstruction scheme, we think that the Government should look at the provision of long term finance for, if I may use this phrase, the more viable farmers, and should look quite seriously at the establishment of a rural loans insurance corporation. 
One of the aspects of the rural situation at the moment, which I believe should be looked at also by the Government, relates to the payment of death duties. I think this has relevance to the situation farmers find themselves in at this time. I do not know that people really understand that the farming sector consistently paid between 30 per cent and 40 per cent of all estate duty collected by the Commonwealth during the 1960s. Yet this farming group made up only 6 per cent of the income taxed population and paid only 6 per cent of the income tax. 
I hope the Government does take notice because it is quite a burden for those people who are involved in farming activities. To further strengthen this argument I point out that only 1.7 per cent of Commonwealth taxation revenue is raised from death duties. So this is another point to take into account when considering the abolition of estate duties. It has relevance in terms of farm reconstruction because the threat or certainty of the imposition of these death duties causes those people who are faced with this problem to fragment their property either to avoid estate duty or to sell off or diminish their properties to pay the death duties. la either case the result is the same, the properties are diminished in size and in many instances become or go perilously close to becoming non-viable units which come under the reconstruction scheme. 
I would like to say a few more words about the rehabilitation aspects of the reconstruction scheme. Whilst I welcome the increase to $3,000 of the maximum amount payable this should be reviewed with the object of increasing it still further, because in many cases there is often not very much or nothing left at all after a farmer pays his debts following the selling up of his property. Once he has reached this stage of economic decline he often finds following the selling up of his property that he does not have very much equity left at all and this applies particularly to farmers with families. It strikes particularly hard at those people who may be a little older than one would like to be when starting off to search for a new career and also at those with families. So we should look at 2 aspects of this, firstly, with a view to increasing the maximum amount and, secondly, with a view to widening the provisions for eligibility for rehabilitation by taking into account that section of the farm build up provisions which says: 
None of the foregoing would prevent the Authority from purchasing an uneconomic property in advance of arrangements having been made for the property to be added to an adjoining property or properties, where the programme of farm adjustment could not otherwise be achieved. 
I would like the Minister to look closely at this aspect of rehabilitation payments to see whether eligibility perhaps could be widened to include those people who at present are excluded from receiving these benefits. While I welcome the provisions, and I have congratulated the Minister on making this statement, I hope that nobody in this House, or within the country, will become too euphoric about the future of agricultural industries. We are all tremendously pleased with the rise which has taken place in the price of wool and the very real injection of confidence which this has put into the rural industries. But this is by no means to say that this rise will be permanent and we should not base too much euphoria on the present state of affairs. Certainly we should be pleased but we should not lose sight of the need for an ongoing reconstruction programme. 
The other aspects of primary industry which concern me arise from the problems which will be engendered by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. This will have a marked effect on several Australian agricultural industries involving a large number of people. So again let us not be too euphoric about the present state of affairs but keep in mind the need for reconstruction. The Government has started to tackle the problems and this constant review and flexibility is a very good thing which should provide an example for many other aspects of government activity. The tackling of long term problems is very encouraging but in tackling them let us not forget the necessity to keep up the fight to restructure our rural industries and to make them viable and worth while in the context of an increasingly sophisticated economy such as Australia has. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.45)- I can recall some of the words of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  when he made the statement to the House on this matter last week. I will agree with the Minister that wool prices have improved and that seasonal conditions in general are good, but there can be no doubt that the long term problems of the rural industries remain, particularly in my electorate. It could be said also that some farms are too small to be economically viable under the present conditions and circumstances. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said that what the country needs is confidence and credit. It seems to me that it is a tragedy that so many more farms would be economically viable if the burden of debts which cannot be serviced over a short period of time could be serviced over a longer period at low interest rates. The rural reconstruction scheme is not giving enough consideration to people in this position. 
The most shocking thing that came out of the Minister's statement was that only 829,500 was to be paid towards rehabilitation of displaced rural workers. If any useful effect is to be achieved in the many and far-reaching problems of our rural industries, certainly the balance of the original SI 00m must be allocated in the year 1972-73. The $10Om allocation spread over a period of 4 years was, of course, ridiculous. When compared with the national farm income of $l,051m in 1969- 70, a year when prices were depressed and seasons generally were not too favourable, as an endeavour to provide a viable base for a continuing contribution to our export earning capacity the investment of 2.5 per cent of the farm income over a 4- year period could be classed as really hopeless. It must be considered unjust when it is remembered that a large proportion of the loans will be repayable. Now we are told that we are to get over 2 years what we were to receive over 4 years. The Australian Labor Party has been saying for a long time that not enough money was put into the scheme. But it is marvellous what the States and the gallup polls can do. They can really move this Government. It must be considered unjust also when it is remembered that many of the farm adjustments and farm amalgamations that have occurred so far have taken place in the private sector without any Government intervention at all. It is quite obvious by the Minister's statements mat he expects this state of affairs to continue in the future. 
It is for this reason that the Minister has placed so much emphasis on the need for traditional lenders to continue to play their role in facilitating adjustment. What the Government members neglect to say is that only those farmers who can prove that they do not really need a loan will get finance from this channel. The greatest problem of farmers in my electorate is that they are already in trouble because they have received previous financing from the sources which are now putting pressure on them. Where the effect of declining prices and income is widespread the institutions and towns which serve rural communities are also affected. Inability to service debts leads to trouble with the banks and other lenders. Many business people in my electorate have asked for some assistance in this regard because lenders have an incentive to foreclose mortgages, although I must admit that to my knowledge not too many have done this. Nevertheless, they have applied severe pressure and restrictions on business houses. In many cases farmers are allowed only a living allowance. The lenders do not foreclose because the so-called owner is the cheapest manager that the lender can get. If the farmer were put off the farm it would cost the lender twice as much to run the property. Local government authorities suffer a reduction in income and this brings about a decline in existing services and facilities. Schools and other establishments which are financed by local communities to some degree are severely affected. Retailers and service agencies in the country towns are subjected to a sharp decline in trade. 
I am prepared to admit that some of these things are only side effects. I mention them only because the Minister said that before dealing with the outcome of his meeting with the States on this matter it was appropriate to see the rural reconstruction scheme in the context of the Government's overall policy towards assistance for rural industries. If this were so, would it not also be appropriate to see the rural reconstruction scheme in the context of the Government's overall neglect to carry out a policy that would have done much more to relieve the hardship and suffering of these people? With all due respect to the capable Minister, the people in my electorate must regard with some misgivings, to say the least, his remarks to the effect that the review has shown that much has been achieved in the relatively short period since the scheme was introduced. An examination of the correspondence that I have with me will show how they regard his remarks. I will read part of a letter which I received only a couple of days ago. It states: 
The problem of finding this money has been brought about through the years of drought this country has experienced and then the severe recession in the wool industry. Due to the drought it was necessary that our stock numbers  bs  reduced to very few. Due to  a  rain in April 1970 shortly after our stock were sold off we have had feed which would have carried more than we had on the property but have been unable to obtain sufficient finance to restock other than 600 old ewes which the seller allowed me to have on the basis of payment after shearing several months after the date of delivery of the sheep. When the sheep were sold in February 1970, a mob of about 1,000 maiden ewes were sold against my instructions and the selling of these will have cost me an estimated conservative loss of income of $23,000 from those ewes and their offspring, however, as my instructions were issued verbally prior to the sale it appears that one must grin and bear this loss even though one realises why the sale was pushed. During 1971 I applied to the Commonwealth Development Bank for assistance but the application was refused without explanation. I then applied for the Drought Relief Restocking Loan for the purchase of 1,000 ewes but again was refused. I then applied to the Rural Assistance Board for a debt reconstruction loan and also to restock - their reply was to the effect that they could not assist unless I could obtain more country. Since June of last year we have been trying to live and nin the property on a drought relief loan'. 
Another letter I received states: 
We certainly agree with what was written. It seems that despite all the noise the Government is making that this scheme will 'save rural industries' - in actual fact it is extremely difficult to find anyone who has been assisted. There is a current local saying '. . . that you almost have to be in credit to be considered eligible for the Scheme to take you on . . .' 
In our own case we put in an application, together with a detailed statement of assets and liabilities, at the end of January this year, and a detailed inspection was carried out by  Mr Valuer  Pike- who is the valuer attached to the Rural Bank at Dareton - in May. On 27th May we received our first 'knock back' to which we replied on 21st June only to receive a letter which only confirmed the Board's original decision. 
We realise that everyone can't be assisted, but after having worked damned hard for 8 years to make a reasonably improved property out of what was a very poor set up and then be virtually written off by the Board, as what they no doubt consider to be an eventual bankrupt, is a bit bard to take. 
It is quite obvious that the scheme was not designed to assist the small farmer, no matter how efficient he is. The 2 letters that I have quoted will indicate this. It will benefit mainly the large commercial farmer. At a time when the low income farmer can do little other than leave the industry with a significant capital loss and illequipped to earn other income to house and provide for his family, this is an injustice. This raises doubts about the Minister's statement that the loan for rehabilitation of those obliged to leave the industry amounted to only 529,500. If only $29,500 has been allocated to all those who have already been forced to move from the rural areas up to this time, they must have got $1 or less each. 
The Minister has stated that they may now get a loan of $3,000. On the last occasion that the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill was debated I pointed out that an issue of the maritime workers journal had indicated that 120 reduntant wharf labourers were to receive $400,000 redundancy payment - not a loan; a straight out payment. The Silverton Tramway employees received 12 months full pay when the east-west rail service took over the line. Many of them did not lose a days work, nor did they have to shift out of the houses in which they lived. The Broken Hill mine workers have a redundancy scheme which provides $100 a year up to a maximum of $2,500, plus compensation for loss of equity in the home and also an early retirement on a pension if they are 57 years of age. 
A forecast that 300 of the.], 900 lessees in the western division may have to be purchased out and move from the area was made at Hil:tor recently by the Minister for Lands,  Mr Lewis,  at a luncheon attended by himself and a group of Liberal parliamentarians who toured the west in a flying week end. 
It seems to me pretty tragic if this is the outlook of the Government's rural reconstruction scheme. All that is needed in the outback areas, as the honourable member for Riverina has already pointed out to the House, is confident  credit. I think it is about time this Government started to build a bit of confident credit back into the rural industries. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Sturt. Has the Minister received any questions or representations with respect to the attitude of the Australian Labour Party or the Australian trade union movement concerning the testing of atomic weapons by the People's Republic of China? 
My question which is addressed to the Treasurer refers to the activities of insurance companies. I ask: In what way do insurance companies use their public funds? Do they contribute to a broad range of Australian industry and, in so doing, protect the content of Australian equity in industries? Has the Government given any thought to protecting by way of legislation or by other means the insurance industry against nationalisation? Is nationalisation of the insurance industry a means by which the influence of government on private enterprise could be extended? 
Is the Treasurer aware of any suggestion that sectional vested interests, purely on the basis of their industrial power, should be given representation on the boards of government and semi-government bodies and the boards of private companies and firms? What legislative or administrative procedures would be necessary for such representation to be made compulsory? 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware of the increasing interest being taken by overseas countries in the establishment of national communications satellite systems? Have inquiries been made by officers of his Department to investigate in depth the benefits and costs associated with Australia acquiring its own communications satellite system? Does he agree that personnel undertaking any such study should include representatives of a number of government departments, such as the Departments of Defence, Education, Civil Aviation, etc., and that this wide-ranging inquiry should take place as soon as possible? 
I find myself in agreement with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on one point - probably on only one point - and that is that the Government should carry out positive diplomatic action. I am convinced that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  proves that this Government is carrying out positive diplomatic action. But for sheer cheek I think the honourable member for Adelaide's speech takes some beating. I noted down a couple of phrases that he used. He said that we should make our decisions, unencumbered by the past. That must not be very comforting for people who have some reason to depend upon Australia. I believe that Australia, as a nation, has built up a tremendous amount of credit throughout the world as a strong and reliable ally. In times of crisis we have been dependable. But what does the honourable member for Adelaide say? - That we should be unencumbered by the past in considerations of national policy. He said that the Government puts great emphasis on a threat to us. On many occasions we have heard members of the Opposition say: There is no threat to Australia. Where does the threat come from? Why do we adopt the policies that we do, because obviously there is no threat?' On the face of it, that is a fairly plausible argument, but I would like to pose to the honourable member for Adelaide and perhaps to his other loquacious friends, that if one had examined the statements of people throughout the world 10 years prior to either the First World War or the Second World War, one would have found that they had said there was no foreseeable threat. The honourable member for Adelaide went on to say that perhaps Australia's foreign policy has resulted in the communist objectives being furthered. How can the honourable member possibly lay that charge on the Government? 
Perhaps I misheard the honourable member. I understood him to say that even if he did not. A senior member of his own front bench, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  stood in the streets of Melbourne and in this House praising the efforts of the North Vietnamese. If that is not furthering the objectives of communism, I do not know what is. He said that we were aloof and detached from our Asian neighbours. We have a policy of close co-operation and close integration with our Asian neighbours. It is the Australian Labor Party that wants to withdraw from Asia. It is the Australian Labor Party that wants to break down the 5-power defence arrangements. It is the Australian Labor Party that does not want to take part in the SEATO and ANZUS treaties. It is not the Government. And yet he accuses the Government of being aloof and detached. Obviously, the honourable member for Adelaide is a little confused about his own party's policy.I am not at all surprised. I am quite convinced that a whole range of the people of Australia are confused about the Labor Party's foreign policy. I would welcome a considered statement of Labor's policy so that everybody would have a clear idea of exactly where it stands. 
I welcome the Minister's statement because I think it gives a very good basis for and a clear exposition of the policy of this Government in relation to foreign affairs. It is a very broad ranging statement. Like other honourable members speaking in this debate, in the time available I can concentrate on only some points of it. Any consideration of Australian foreign policy must obviously take cognisance of Australia's geographic position, its traditional allies, its neighbours and their opinions about the way things should be handled, its own capacities and the views that its neighbours have of Australia as a nation. We all know that, geographically, Australia is a reasonably isolated place and it is peculiarly vulnerable to interdiction of its sea and air routes. This is why the establishment of a potentially hostile environment in either the Pacific or the Indian Oceans must be viewed with very great care. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  in his exposition of the views of states neighbouring on the Indian Ocean. I agree with what he said, but I think it would be wrong for Australia and it would be a dereliction of duty if, in considering Australia's foreign policy, due weight were not given to the possibility of a hostile environment being developed, particularly in the Indian Ocean. We are concerned about it and the Minister in his statement has made clear this concern. Again, I would like to point up the difference between the Government's policy and the Opposition's policy in relation to this. The Opposition is not concerned about it. A hostile Indonesia and a hostile South East Asia would be particularly worrying. Again I join with the honourable member for Diamond Valley in his statements about the very real progress that is being made in Indonesia. I agree with him that we should not downgrade the efforts being made in countries such as Indonesia in their endeavours to attain what we would regard as a truly democratic state. I do not think they should be derided because they are not as far advanced along this path perhaps as we are. I am very concerned about the resurgence of communist insurgency in areas of South East. Asia, particularly in Thailand. Of course, we know what is going on in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. However, we should be concerned also about what is happening in Malaysia. Here again I would just like to point up the difference between the Government's approach to these problems and that of the Opposition. We consider these situations should be watched with great care. We are worried and concerned that these areas of the world which are of particular significance to us should not fall into communist hands. I cannot think of one Government supporter who has ever been seen marching down an Australian street carrying a Vietcong flag. 
The honourable member over there might carry a Vietcong flag. I would not be surprised if this were the case. But no-one from the Government side has ever done this. On the other hand, a senior shadow minister from the Opposition is totally involved in promoting the causes of the communist people of North Vietnam. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  spoke in the House today about the fact that we should downgrade the importance of the Five-Power Arrangements. We totally disagree with this. Again I think that the people of Australia should be made very much aware of the great gulf between the foreign policies of the Government and the Opposition. There is no use anyone trying to put forward the proposition that the foreign policy of the Government and the foreign policy of the Opposition are pretty similar. They are not. 
The Minister in his statement made some reference - and I was glad about this - to the European Economic Community. With the importance, and the rightful importance, that is given to South East Asia, the events in Europe tend to become a little neglected. But the EEC is a most interesting development and I think it does need further clarification. I am not at ail sure that people realise exactly what the EEC is, and more particularly what it hopes to lead to. We all know that it is primarily a customs union covering trade in all goods. There is a ban on customs duty on imports and exports between member countries and there is established a common external tariff. The Treaty of Rome also calls for a common agricultural policy, the free movement of persons, goods and capital and the balancing of social service provisions, amongst other common policies. It is important to note that this arrangement is designed to lead finally to full political union. The original aim was to promote the idea of a fully united Europe. The Minister made mention of this in his statement when he talked about a common foreign policy. Britain originally refused to sign the Treaty of Rome. One of its reasons for this was the fear of loss of national sovereignty. The same fear is still expressed today. 
We all know that there are arguments for and against Britain's entry. Because Australia and Britain have a traditional relationship, Britain's entry into the Common Market must have significant effects upon that relationship. Arguments against entry abound, but I believe, having been over there reasonably recently, that the principal discussion centres around the question of national sovereignty. To my mind there is no question that accession does involve a loss of national sovereignty. Also there is no doubt that full political integration is a long term aim of the more altruistic of the pro-marketeers. There is also the question of the Commonwealth of Nations and this concerns Australia. The view frequently is expressed that we think that Britain is terribly concerned about the Commonwealth of Nations and about places such as Australia and New Zealand. But I believe that this is subsidiary to the main issue. The British have strong emotional and, of course, economic ties with, especially, white Commonwealth countries. We have a tradition of reliability in times of major test which is greatly appreciated by the British people. I believe that the emergence of radical and disruptive elements in many of the new Commonwealth nations has resulted in a weakening in Britain of a desire to maintain what has been described as the Commonwealth ideal. 
I believe with respect to Australia that British pro-market politicians are harshly practical and realistic about Britain's entry. The generally held view is that Australia is an advancing, sound and sophisticated country with a broadly based economy and huge natural resources. It is close to what is regarded as a vast Asian market with growing trade and political ties with Japan and the United States of America. No real relationship is seen between the problems of Australia and New Zealand and Britain's entry. It is said - and I believe said quite justifiably - that, if Australia was so concerned about Britain's entry, Australia has left it very late to express its concern forcefully. I have said that Britain's entry into the Common Market will make a great deal of difference. But I think that this entry while hurting some sections of Australian trade, also will provide enormous possibilities. If the countries of the EEC continue to develop and to raise their standard of living at anywhere near the rate they have so far achieved, the demand for many Australian goods, particularly goods such as wool, metals, meat and some manufactured items, will continue to grow. The seasonality of production could ensure a continued market for other food products such as dairy products, sugar and fruit. 
I come back to the point about positive initiatives. 1, think the main opportunities could be considered as arising from any positive initiatives we take, particularly in establishing more significant diplomatic and trade groups and establishments within Europe. We cannot expect Britain to act for Australian interests within the EEC. Therefore we must work towards the creation of closer economic and trade ties with individual EEC nations in the Community itself. I was glad to see that the Minister in his statement talked about the increased Government representation in Brussels. I agree with this wholeheartedly. I would like to see this occur in other European capitals. I believe that a very strong working relationship must be built and maintained between trade officials and the various industry organisations, both overseas and here. 
The Minister in his statement also mentioned that Australia House would come under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Whilst I agree with this completely, and keeping in mind what I have just said about Australian representation in EEC countries, I would urge the Minister to have a very close look at the establishment within Australia House. I took the trouble to have a look at the Australian based and locally engaged staff which this country has in this area. In Britain we have 961 personnel and in Common Market countries we have 268. I think that there could be an imbalance here. 
 I  do not have a breakdown of the figures. But I think that even the bare figures require that the establishment should be looked into with a view perhaps to transferring some to what 1 would regard as posts of growing significance throughout the EEC countries. T see that my time has almost run out. I would like to conclude on the note that 1 believe Australia has a most significant part to play in the South East Asian area of the world. We have a tradition of stability; we have a tradition of positive commitment to the future political stability and economic security of South East Asian countries. 1 think that we as a nation and as a people should realise that people living in the countries around us look to us for leadership in these fields. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I refer to the decision to revalue the Australian dollar slightly downward late last year, and the fact that tariffs, by permitting the maintenance of a higher external value for the Australian dollar, have disadvantaged exporters. Is it a fact that an appropriate combination of tariff cuts and currency devaluation would have helped our farm export industries and the taxpayers supporting them without threatening our external balance? Is it a fact that such an action would have favoured our more efficient over our less efficient secondary industries? Does he agree with this reasoning and, if so, will he initiate appropriate tariff amendments? 
I ask the Treasurer: What would be the cost to the average taxpayer in extra income tax- if the present allowable, deduction for superannuation or life insurance payments were disallowed? What, would be the effect of : such a policy on the private insurance companies and hence private investment in Australian business? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has seen a report in the newspapers of a statement attributed to the United States Ambassador, to Australia in relation to the future of American defence base installations in Australia? Has the Minister considered the implications of the reported statement? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and I preface it by saying that a number of my constituents have expressed concern to me that the Government's position in relation to the acceptability of overseas portfolio investments in Australian companies is unclear. Provided such investment does not lead to acquisition or control of Australian companies, does the Government consider such overseas portfolio investment acceptable or not? 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the recent bomb outrages and threats of bombing in Sydney, what action is the Government taking not only to bring the perpetrators of these outrages to justice but also to clarify the origins and basis of such terrorist activities? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by referring to the disquiet in Australia shown over recent French nuclear tests. I ask the Minister: Was the subject of French nuclear testing discussed at the recent South Pacific 
Forum which he attended? If it was discussed, what was the result of this discussion and will the Minister be stating Australia's position with respect to atmospheric nuclear testing when he addresses the United Nations? 
I think that the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  is a little out of touch with the changes which have been brought into the House by the Government, because he made out a most eloquent case for the Government action which has been foreshadowed. I was glad to hear a member of the Opposition talking about the needs of Catholic schools. The honourable member for Banks spoke about the needs of Catholic schools in his electorate and said that they should receive preferential treatment. If the honourable member had read the Estimates he would know that over the next 5 years S48m will be made available for independent schools. The allocation of that money within the independent schools system is the responsibility of a single committee within each State. In other words, all the independent schools within each State have to submit their proposals to that committee, and the allocation of the money will be made on the basis of need. If the Catholic schools in the honourable member's electorate can prove that need against the requirements of similar independent schools, they will be allocated that money. So the honourable member should take a closer look at the Government's proposed legislation. Because he is a fair man I am sure he will agree that this is a realistic and logical way of allocating these funds for capital development. 
I want to make it quite clear that the Government's attitude to education is broadly to achieve greater educational opportunities for all school children and to improve the overall quality of education. This is something which is often forgotten by those people who talk only about money figures in relation to education. The Government has the view that it is just not good enough to forget about quality and go for quantity. We think that a tremendous amount of emphasis should be placed on the quality of education provided and we seek to provide this quality of education for all children in all schools. To achieve this aim, it is an absolute requirement that the dual system of education be continued. In the time available we cannot debate at length the manner in which the education proposals of the Opposition would detract from this aim. The Opposition's proposals would have the effect of a slow death for the independent schools system. The Government aims to use the federal system, not aiming to concentrate all power in some nebulous schools commission operating in Canberra. I would like to hear some of the many spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party - official and unofficial - spell out in some detail just how this proposed schools commission would work. I have heard competing statements by various members of the Opposition on what is proposed for this schools commission. I would like it to be made quite plain what it would do and exactly how it would do it. 
I spoke about educational opportunities. One of the areas in which a lot remains to be done is that relating to isolated children. The children falling into that category need more emphasis placed on their welfare by education authorities. I am speaking particularly about children in isolated homesteads in the backblocks areas of Australia, about children in schools in (he smaller communities in Australia, about the problems of schooling children in new settlements which may occur as a result of some mineral discovery or ore processing moves - in other words the problems of children in areas in which educational facilities cannot be brought quickly and readily to bear. I would also like to see an open university in Australia. I realise that some universities - particularly Macquarie University in New South Wales and the University of New England - have open university type functions, but I do not think they are extensive enough. I would like to see the inauguration of an Australia-wide open university. I believe this would provide a great educational stimulus throughout the country and particularly for those people living in isolated areas and new communities. 
I believe it is possible to cover or go a long way towards covering both these requirements - the needs of isolated children and the creation of a nation-wide open university - by Australia acquiring and utilising the facilities of its own communications satellite. I mentioned this matter earlier this year in an appropriation debate. The technology of a communications satellite is now sufficiently advanced, to the point where individual receivers are quite a feasible proposition. One of the chief arguments in the past against the utilisation of a communications satellite was that the ground receivers for television programmes beamed from such a satellite were so expensive as to make the whole thing unrealistic. On my recent trip to the United States of America I was taken to visit a factory which is responsible for the construction of communications satellites. It has built the Intelsat satellites and has just completed a domestic communications satellite for Canada which will be launched on 1st November this year. 
There is a workable design for a communications satellite which has now reached the point where, for a cost of less than $1,500, a receiving antenna can be built and placed on the ground. Of course, this opens up all sorts of possibilities particularly in relation to isolated homesteads, isolated schools and isolated communities. I believe that one of the television bands could be utilised or incorporated in the relay system of the satellite to provide school broadcasts aimed particularly at children in isolated areas but aimed also at providing an open university available to everybody throughout Australia. This would go a long way towards creating a better overall national feeling of unity. It would provide high quality programmes, again to people throughout the country. In my view, it would do a great deal towards expanding the educational opportunities of a lot of children and a lot of adults who are at present virtually disenfranchised because of their geographic position. 
I commend this suggestion to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I believe that the Department of Education and Science should look very closely at contributing to the overall cost of the procurement and setting up of the necessary facilities to enable Australia not only to own but also to utilise effectively such a miracle of modern technology in a way which, I believe, would advantage a tremendous number of Australians. 
May 1 preface my question to the Prime Minister - and 1 hope that this is in order - by congratulating him and his wife on the birth of their daughter. 
Honourable members - Hear, hear! 
1 would like to preface the substance of my question by reminding the right honourable gentleman that it is now approximately 2 years since decisions were announced with respect to the transfer of a proportion of Commonwealth occupied lands around the Sydney Harbour foreshores to the State Government. Could he inform me what the present situation is with respect to this transfer? Will the Prime Minister assure me that every effort is being made to finalise these arrangements so that the people of Sydney and Australia will have access to these magnificant recreational areas? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by referring him to a question I asked on 21st September about the French nuclear tests. Is the Minister aware of recent newspaper reports alleging that the French intend to continue nuclear testing in the future? Will the convention of 15 Pacific nations which he brought together recently at the United Nations be taking  any action in relation to this report? Will Australia be acting in concert and individually to make its position quite clear to the French authorities in relation to this report? 
Although in the past a number of people have been concerned about the relationship between man and his environment, about the utilisation and conservation of scarce resources, about the preservation of unique natural land forms and the conservation of the earth's flora and fauna, only recently has this concern become widespread amongst the people of the developed countries of the world. There is no doubt that in these countries, it is the popular thing to be 'for the environment' and this to my mind is a very good thing. 1 only wish that this concern to combat pollution was even more widespread, and that individuals did ail in their power, which is considerable, to stop polluting the environment by such mundane but effective acts as not throwing cans and bottles about indiscriminately, not Uttering the countryside wilh all sorts of garbage and, in fact, by behaving like people who care about the surroundings in which they and other people live. As  President  Nixon said in his 1972 Environmental Message to Congress: 
The starting point of environmental quality is in the hearts and minds of the people. Unless the people have a deep commitment to new values and a clear understanding of the new problems, all our laws and programmes and spending will avail little. The young, quick to commit and used to learning, are gaining the changed outlook fastest of all. Their enthusiasm about the environment spreads with a healthy contagion. Their energy in its behalf can be an impressive force for good. 
I agree completely with this statement and have a strong belief that we must more strenuously assess our laws, our developmental projects, our manufacturing systems and methods, and our use of scarce resources to minimise adverse environmental impact. We must remember at the same time that the situation we face did not come about overnight, nor will it be rectified overnight. There are many factors deeply imbedded in our way of life which will have to be reassessed because of their detrimental effects on the world in which we live. 
In the past we have emphasised quantitative growth at the expense of qualitative growth; the failure to attempt to assess environmental effects when undertaking new developments; neglecting to account for the social costs of pollution; the increasing dependence on conveniences such as the car without due regard for the environmental effects. But perhaps funda mentally we have had a lack of recognition of the concept, both nationally and internationally, of the interdependence of all the parts making up the environment. V;n himself is an increasingly important part of this total equation, not only because of the absolute growth in the world's population but also because of man's increasing capacity to alter the environment for both good and evil. Obviously entrenched attitudes will not be easily changed, and this in itself is not a totally bad thing. Measures aimed at environmental protection are not necessarily divinely inspired and it could be that in some cases the cure is or could be worse than the complaint. Nor are ail the problems going to be overcome by legislative action, despite the hopes of some people in this respect. To develop a new consciousness towards the problem of living in harmony with our environment we need new knowledge, new attitudes new insights, not only through all levels of government - and here I would like to place special emphasis on the role of local government which has particular responsibilities particularly in city areas - but in the private sector as well, in the protessions, in industry of course, right through to the individual citizens themselves. 
The development of such a consciousness will take time and money, cooperation and imagination. In this development the role of our educational system, is vital, not only to develop the consciousness- of which I have spoken but also to provide training in those areas of knowledge the implementation of which will be of such importance. Here I think of land use planning, pollution control, ecological interaction and technological development aimed at minimising evironmental effects.. 
This all sounds very fine and we oan all pay lip service to lofty ideals.. But. I would like to sound some warnings at this stage. Firstly, in any consideration of environmental effects there are some very hard questions to answer. Any development must have some effect. The question is: What are the effects, and secondly, what is an acceptable level of effect? The question of how clean is clean enough relates very directly to how much everyone is willing to pay. The cost of the environmental clean-up and maintenance will have to be borne by each person whether as a consumer or a taxpayer and most probably as both, and the cost will not be cheap. These costs are not only direct money costs - they also relate to the effects decisions on evironmental matters have on our domestic economy, on the provision of jobs, the availability and cost of resources, the effects on foreign competition both at home and abroad, and the cost and prices of goods produced in Australia. These considerations place very real difficulties in the path of those responsible for making decisions and very real responsibilities on the shoulders of those providing the information on which decisions are based. 
We need 2 things in the future  -  a healthy environment and a healthy economy. In the pursuit of the former it would be absurd to neglect the latter. The achievement of a healthy environment is dependent for its very lifeblood on a healthy economy. It would be ridiculous in my view to seek ecological perfection at the cost of bankrupting the taxpaying enterprises which will be paying in large measure for the advances sought. This means that progress may be unspectacular, but it should certainly not be an excuse for inaction. The difficulties of reconciliation are great but they must be faced even if mistakes are made. 
All this leads to my second warning, and this ls specifically directed at those who see the cause of our problems as being the growth economy and the onward march of science and technology and who advocate as a cure the restriction or abolition of our dependence on technology, the cutting bask of an economy based on growth and the introduction of extremely harsh environmental legislation. Let us look at each of these in turn. Firstly, as I have said already, the economy and environmental action are irretrievably intertwined. Whilst we can argue about the distribution of funds within our economy, it must be realised that changes will cost a lot of money, and these cannot be paid for simply out of company profits. The cost of placing transmission lines underground, for instance, while technologically possible, may add so much to the cost of the provision of power that it becomes out of the reach of companies and individuals. Within Commonwealth and State Budgets the allocation of moneys is a closely debated topic. The competing demands of social welfare, health, education, housing come readily to mind. If there is no expansion of output within the economy roughly equivalent to the cost of cleaning up the environment then, of course, that cost can be met only by cutting down on other sectors of the Budget. This state of affairs could very easily work against those least able to withstand it - the less privileged of the land, the pensioners, the fixed income earners, the socially deprived - and could result in a backlash by the community against those responsible for this state of affairs. The only way out of the dilemma, is to expand the economy, with its consequent risks to the environment. Not to do so is to invite the slowing down or stopping of environmental action as a result of the backlash I have referred to. 
Secondly, we must realise that cleaning up the environment will need the development and application of costly technology. In fact, far from technology being the bete noir, it is our hope of salvation. What is needed is a re-orientation of the direction of research, but research and the application of its results must be supported. Thirdly, it has often been suggested that harsh legislation should be introduced as the means whereby those polluting the environment can be made to pay and pay dearly for their sins. To my mind this is no solution. What is required is cooperative incentive based legislation, aimed at encouraging manufacturers to adopt new and worthwhile pollution methods aimed at encouraging individuals to keep in mind their effect on the environment. Punitive laws have to be enforced if they are to have any effect, and in an area as widespread as environmental control the sheer size of the law enforcing agency necessary is frightening. If, however, both companies and individuals secured worthwhile rewards - and this would almost automatically have to be economic - for acceptable environmental actions, the chances of widespread co-operation would be greater. Additionally, I have always believed in cooperation and incentive rather than compulsion as acceptable social values and such an approach would develop these attitudes within our society. 
I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  He talked about the situation in Papua New Guinea and brought to our attention some of the very real changes which will occur in this area of our immediate environment. I should like to extend the situation and talk about the South 'East Asian area. I believe that this area is probably the most exciting, in terms of changes and potential for the future, of any area in the world. In my view the opportunities are enormous and the difficulties are enormous, and I believe very sincerely that Australia has a very great part to play in the future organisation and the future happenings in this area. 
There is no doubt that in the last 5 to 7 years the situation in South East Asia has changed dramatically. As we know, the British military presence in this area has diminished to a very great extent. The British are becoming very concerned with their entry into the European Common Market. Whilst their economic influence in our region remains very Strong there can be no argument, in my view, that the absolute military security which they once presented for us is no longer there. The United States, whilst filling the vacuum created by the withdrawal of Britain for some time, over the last few years has shown a marked change pf attitude towards its foreign policy. The Nixon doctrine, as we all know, placed a very much greater emphasis on the need for countries to maintain to a much greater extent the responsibility for their own defence. 
I believe that the visit of President Nixon to Peking earlier this year in itself had a very great effect on the quickening pace of change in South East Asia. One of the areas in which it had a particular effect - the country in which it had perhaps the greatest effect - was Japan. Everybody is tremendously preocupied with China.  There  is no doubt that a country of more than 800 million people has a certain magnetic attraction. But let us not forget for a moment that we should not be deluded into thinking that China will become a great trading nation in the near future. This simply will not happen. Anybody who thinks that simply by recognising China Australia will avail itself of vast trading opportunities just does not know the facts. However, of course, the position of China is one of the imponderables in the area. 
In this context I mention the effect President Nixon's visit had in helping to bring about to a much greater degree the emergence of China into the concert of nations. The effect on China was not as strong as it was on Japan. I regard Japan as a country to which everybody in the South East Asian area should look for all sorts of developments in the future. We can see these changes occurring very rapidly. The previous Prime Minister of Japan, in my view, retired prematurely following the visit of President Nixon to Peking. He was replaced, not in my view, by his chosen successor, but by the present Prime Minister of Japan who in my view has adopted a very different foreign policy for Japan. 
We have seen already the very quick movements which have taken place between Japan and China. I noticed today a newspaper report which stated that the Japanese Parliament had doubled Japan's military expenditure. There is very little doubt in my mind that in the next 5 to 7 years Japan will devote an increasing proportion of its vast economic resources to military expenditure. This is not necessarily bad. J am particularly hopeful that Japan will play a much more significant part in the political life of the South East Asian area. I do not think that it is realistic to suppose that a nation should continue as an economic giant and a power pigmy. 1 think this situation must change. 
The position of Russia, of course, is open to a lot of conjecture. I believe that the Indo-Russian entente will have a very great influence on the patterns of power shifts which will take place in our region. We can see that being offset to some extent by the Chinese relationship with Pakistan. Taiwan is a country which enjoys, to my mind, a somewhat peculiar situation. It is always dangerous to speculate about the future, but I see 2 possibilities. I do not see them really taking place until the present situation of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek resolves itself. I think Taiwan under his successor will be a very different place. It could move gradually towards incorporation within China or alternatively the Taiwanese - as opposed to the Chinese on Taiwan - could assert their independence and say that they have no particular wish 10 become absorbed within China and in fact could work towards becoming an independent nation. These, very briefly of course, are some of the imponderables in our region at the moment. 
One might ask what this has to do with Australia. We are here and I think that our background and our present economic and political stability place us in a very real position of influence simply because we do not have a history of violent antipathy towards any of the groupings within this area of the world. We do not have the history of conflict that exists between various of the groups within South East Asia. That has put us in a peculiarly strong position. I believe that we can and should utilise this unique position to act as an honest broker, as a trusted ally, as a country that has a very real interest in strengthening and preserving the economic and political stability of the region. It is only through the preservation and strengthening of the economic and political stability of the region that real progress can be made. 
In the time available I want to mention briefly something that has occurred over the last 2 days which I believe has not been stressed sufficiently. I refer to the agreement reached between Australia and Indonesia with respect to the sea boundaries between the 2 countries. It is surprising that the media have not placed a greater emphasis on what I regard as a truly historic decision achieved with a minimum of rancour. Who could possibly have expected this as little as 7 years ago. It is a very real tribute to the officers of the various departments who have taken part in the negotiations and it is a very real tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and to Australia as a whole that this decision has been made. Similar decisions have been the cause of major international conflicts particularly in respect of sea boundaries. Today sea boundaries have assumed even greater importance because of the doubts and the unresolved questions about sovereignty over sea beds. I think that the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Minister deserve the highest possible credit and the highest possible praise for making what I regard as a very major breakthrough in terms of settling possible areas of dispute between Indonesia and ourselves. 
Firstly, let me say that I support the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. I would like to spend a few minutes discussing what I regard as a most exciting development which 1 would like to see take place in Australia. 1 have with me a publication entitled 'Post Office Prospects and Capital Programme 1972-73'. 1 notice that trunk telephone calls are assessed to have increased during 1971-72 by about 10 per cent over 1970-71. The publication says: 
The maintenance of a high standard of service and further extension of STD facilities should result in a continuing high growth rate. 
I am a little surprised to see that telegram lodgments for 1971-72 continued their downward trend and fell by 5 per cent. A reason given for this progressive decline in telegram lodgments was the growth in telex and private wire services and the switch to other Post Office services. 
I notice a most significant change in the number of telex subscriber services in operation at 30th June 1972. The number increased by 15.6 per cent during 1971-72. 
Call traffic increased by 11.4 per cent over the previous year. The report goes on to say that 'continued growth in this service at a somewhat similar rate is expected'. This adds a lot of substance to a matter I have brought up in the Parliament a couple of times. I refer to the continuing and increasing demand for more and better communications services throughout the country. What I regard as one of the best ways of achieving this better and more complete service would be for Australia - particularly the Postmaster-General's Department in consultation and in co-operation with the other departments - to purchase and install a domestic communications satellite system. When I raised this matter before and asked a question in the House of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  he told me that the system had been investigated, together with a number of other systems involving satellites, but he mentioned that it had not been put into operation anywhere in the world. It had not been put into operation in the United States of America where one would expect such an advanced system to be operating. 
Since that time the Canadians have made a firm commitment to purchase and launch their own domestic communications satellite system. This will come into action on 1st or 2nd November this year. I think it will be interesting, in terms of the argument that the cost of such a system would be too great for Australia, if I give the Committee some indication of the cost of the Canadian system. It is on public record that the Canadians have purchased 3 satellites for a total cost of $US30m. This total includes the expected incentives for orbital performance and ground stations. In addition to this, to set up the system they have decided to build 2 major 98 ft turnkey stations, 6 regional transmit and receive TV network stations, 24 TV receive stations, 2 thin route stations for message traffic and one telemetry and command station - a total of 35 stations in all. The total cost of this section of the programme will be $US16m. These costs do not include some site acquisition and preparation costs. The launch vehicles, which we would have to purchase, cost at the moment about $US15m for 2 Thor Delta boosters. The total system costs should be about $US70m. The Canadians have plans for further expansion of the ground network. The total cost of the system which will cover the entire nation of Canada will be less than $US70m. 
The United States system of communications is very different from ours. Over there they do not have a government operated communications system, lt is interesting to notice that at the moment, following the decision by the United States Government to call for applications to produce one of these domestic satellite systems. 8 applicants have applied to the United States Government to build a domestic communications satellite system. One organisation - Western Union - has done a complete cost analysis of its application. It plans to invest about $69m in the initial system. This will include 3 space craft, 2 launch vehicles and 7 major trunking earth stations, plus a ground network inter-connecting system. The cost benefits of satellite systems over terrestrial systems depend very greatly on the network design, the geography and the service offered. Generally, for distances in excess of 1,000 miles and for point to multi-point distribution, such as TV receiving, satellites provide significant economies. I am led to believe that satellites provide the only feasible method of inter-connecting very remote areas with high quality service and bringing wide band services such as television into sparsely populated areas. 
As we all know, Australia has a small population concentrated largely on a few points on the coastal fringe. It has a very great area which is very sparsely populated. Recently the Government introduced what I regard as a highly significant proposal to develop regional centres. Also over the last few years there has been a succession of very exciting mineral discoveries and the consequent build up of small communities at the sites. If one were to introduce a satellite communications system it would provide telephone, radio, telex and television systems, both black and white and colour, over the whole of Australia simultaneously. I believe this could be done at reasonable cost particularly in view of the statement by the Post Office that there is a continuing and accelerating demand for high class communication systems. I have already mentioned the possibilities of such a satellite being used for nation-wide education programmes at both primary and secondary stages, and also for an open university television channel. Although it has been looking at the possibilities of such a system, it is time that the Australian Post Office presented publicly a cost-benefit analysis of the comparative performances of a terrestial based system and its own domestic satellite communications system. In this time of increasing technology and increasing demand for improved communications, Australia in concert with nations such as Canada, Brazil, India and Indonesia, should be looking at the purchase and installation of its own domestic satellite communications system. I believe this would involve not merely an outgoing cost because I am strongly of the opinion that significant sections of such a nation-wide network could be built in Australia. In addition, with all the resources of technology which we have in Australia and the expertise we would gain in installing our own system, we would be able to contribute to the systems of other countries which, I feel sure, will be installing domestic communication satellites in the near future. Not only would this be a significant boost to the quality and coverage of communications in Australia but also it would have a very good effect upon increased technology in the communications fields in Australia. Our record in telecommunication is sound. We have a world-wide standing in this field and I ask the PostmasterGeneral to consider undertaking a costbenefit analysis of the continuation and expansion of a terrestial-based system and the introduction of a communications satellite. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The hnourable member's time has expired. 
I do not wish to speak on the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I want to discuss some matters which are most important not only to the merchant navy of Australia but also to our defence. I refer particularly to the need for the merchant navy to be able to defend itself in time of war, at least to some extent. We have a current programme to increase our detroyer strength, but irrespective of whether we achieve the aims of that programme in the short term we still will not have sufficient naval escorts to provide the desired degree of protection for our merchant navy. I believe very strongly that at this stage we should make some provision for the merchant navy to defend itself to some extent. 
The Commonwealth Government has made and will make a large sum of money available to the builders of merchant ships in Australia. In that circumstance we have the right to impose requirements in respect of the design and building of such ships. In any future conflict merchant ships are likely to be attacked by aircraft. A good argument can be made out to the effect that the defence equipment of shipping could be made more efficient by locating it on the merchant shipping. Not only would there be a more direct involvement between the attacker and the attacked, but also in many cases merchant ships because of their size would provide a better platform for anti-misslile launching systems. If such facilities were made available on merchant shipping greater defensive capacity could be achieved more cheaply than by concentrating solely on naval vessels. 
If that argument is accepted, the next point is that modification could most efficiently be effected at the building stage. 
I am told that such a programme would require certain structural modifications, including strengthening, and more particularly, the incorporation of additional wiring facilities. If that work were undertaken, obviously some carrying capacity of the ship would be lost. However, I believe that this could be offset to some degree if all shipbuilders were required to undertake modifications such as I have suggested. In other words, no advantage would accrue to one fleet only. 
There is no doubt that such strengthening of the structural components of a ship and the additional wiring would be much cheaper if carried out at the building stage. I believe that we should utilise the design facilities and expertise of the Royal Australian Navy so that merchant shipping could be quickly converted to a wartime capacity should the need arise. This requirement should be included in future plans to assist the merchant shipbuilding industry in Australia. It would provide our merchant navy with additional protection. It would also introduce a degree of cooperation and liaison between the Royal Australian Navy and merchant navy. If this situation came about the total defensive capacity of Australian shipping would be enhanced and any potential aggressors would be much less inclined to attack Australian shipping. They would be deterred by the fact that our shipping would be able rapidly to undergo a refit or modification in order to increase its defensive capacity. 
I commend the suggestion to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  In many other countries there is closer liaison between the navy and merchant navy. In a country like Australia we are dependent to a great extent on the continuance of open sea lanes. Our shippig would be in a much better position in the event of future conflicts. 
As the amendments have been moved by the Opposition in globo I will have to oppose them in globo although I, like the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street),  can see some real merit in some of the suggestions contained in the amendments. 1 would just like to draw attention to what the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said in amendment 13 dealing with the appointment of persons with special qualifications. One of the problems encountered when one starts detailing these qualifications is that one often misses out people or areas of qualification which should necessarily be included. 1 would imagine that any responsible Minister not only would be looking at suggestions such as those contained in the amendments but also would be looking at other fields germane to this area of education. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  took the Government to task. He said that the legislation was brought in only as a means of getting more women into the work force. I reject that suggestion categorically. I think that the Government deserves to be praised for the introduction of this legislation. Although we can argue about the merits of women in the work force, whether they should leave children at home or at some other place and at what age they should leave their children, there is no doubt at all about the existence of the problem. The fact is that about 35 per cent of all married women in Australia are employed at present and the percentage is rising. The situation is not peculiar to Australia. It is repeated in many other advanced countries and I believe that the proportion of working mothers will continue to rise as women see their role in life as embracing more than just being married and raising a family. 
The honourable member for Barton gave the impression that the Bill is concerned only with children of working mothers. Of course that is not so. It is a Government initiative to improve and extend child day care facilities for mothers who for a variety of reasons may need care for their children during the day. It is of particular concern to mothers who go out to work but it is also of importance to women who are sick or incapacitated. These people will have a particular need for such child care facilities. The scheme is not confined to the children of working mothers but the emphasis is in that direction. Not only mothers are involved in the implications of the scheme but also many fathers who for one reason or another have the responsibility of bringing up their children will welcome opportunities for the worthwhile care of their children during the day. 
The Government is providing a basic community service concerned with the proper care of children and the needs of the family and the community generally. Like my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  I reject the concept that the Commonwealth should take over the whole area of provision of child care centres. I believe it is correct and appropriate that we should provide opportunities for interested groups to build the types of child care centres which they see as their real need, containing the sorts of facilities that they want. These people have a better idea of how this should be done than has a bureaucracy located in Canberra. 
I reject the concept of the Commonwealth's taking over this role. Honourable members will be aware that the centres are to be operated by local government bodies. This is a very appropriate function for them. Benevolent trusts, welfare organisations, parent bodies and other groups will be involved. When I first heard about the child care si-heme some time ago I had some very real misgivings about whether it should be proceeded with simply because I was tremendously concerned that the facilities should go to more than just child care, that they should have a very real educative function as well. 
I am very pleased to know that the Government has consulted the College of Psychiatrists on the possible effect on children who will be looked after in these facilities. The advice received from the College has been taken very much into consideration. It is also pleasing to know that trained nurses and educators will be present, although I am somewhat concerned that the age at which children will be allowed to attend the centres should be very closely assessed. It may be just a personal idio- syncracy, but I have very much in mind that a very young child should remain for as long as possible with his mother. I do not like to think of very young children having to be set aside from their mothers. Obviously the relationship between mother and child should be encouraged to develop. Like the Government, I acknowledge that the problem does occur in which mothers of very young children in certain circumstances inevitably go out to work. In that event facilities should be provided to enable them to do so. 
A number of other aspects of the Bill and the amendments proposed by the Opposition could be referred to at length. However, I will conclude by saying that rather than honourable members opposing this Bill they should give the Government great credit for displaying initiative which not only will fill a great need in the care of children but will also do so in a manner best suited for their maximum development and progress in the future. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the House as to the present situation with respect to damage caused by the cyclone in the Fijian islands? Will he assure the House that the Government stands ready to help the nations of the South Pacific which may be deleteriously affected by this cyclone? 
Over recent years there has been an extraordinary increase in the number of small organisations having political action as their mode of expression, and the overthrow of Liberal governments as their aim. The causes championed are many and various. Let me name a few. There are the Vietnam Moratorium, anti-apartheid, abortion on demand, anti-State aid, the immediate recognition of the People's Republic of China and the selling out of Taiwan, support of the National Liberation Front, which is even incorporated in the Labor Party's policy, opposition to the New South Wales Summary Offences Act, and many others. The organisations committed to this result are just as numerous and varied. The various factions of the Communist Party, the Australia Party, the Australian Labor Party, the Defence of Government Schools, the Socialist Youth Alliance, Workers' Action, the Builders Labourers' Federation, the New South Wales Teachers' Federation - all these are committed to radical change of our present society and its institutions and standards. 
On the face of it there is nothing wrong with this. We are fortunate - despite those who would prefer the rule of the mob and the rule from the streets to prevail - tint we still live in a democracy which allows supporters of all sorts of organisations to express freely their points of view, even if the point of view in some cases is to overthrow that democracy and substitute some sort of totalitarian dictatorship. However, it should be disturbing to anyone who values the continuation of democracy, who values the right of free expression, who values the standards and institutions built up over the years in our society, if it became apparent that these dissident groups were not in tact distinct organisations pursuing their own aims, but were rather operating largely in concert. 
It is interesting to look at some of the publications, broadsheets, dodgers and advertising material produced on behalf of the organisations I have mentioned. Most of it comes from a small number of printers. For instance Quality Press, which is the commercial printing division of the Communist Party's paper 'The Tribune'; Barndana Pty Ltd, a Melbourne firm; a place described as 22 Steam Mill Street. Sydney, which operates under various names such as Southwood Press Pty Ltd, Comment Publishing Co., A. J. Kelly or L. R. Barnes; and one called Messenger Print in Maroubra, New South Wales. Looking more closely at some of the clients of 22 Steam Mill Street, we find they include the Australia Party, The Anti-State Aid DOGS, the Australian Labor Party and the New South Wales Teachers Federation. In the last federal election pamphlets and how-to-vote tickets for Australia Party candidates came from Steam Mill Street and Barndana Pty Ltd. In the last New South Wales State election pamphlets, postal vote information and how-to-vote cards came from these sources for the Australia Party, the DOGS and the Australian Labor Party. For this coming Federal election the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  who is sitting across the chamber from me tonight, has a postal voting card from Southwood Press Pty Ltd, authorised by  Mr Hunt  and printed by Southwood Press. Barndana Pty Ltd was the Melbourne printing plant which  Mr Gordon  Barton- 
Order! Before I call the honourable member for Lilley I remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech and I ask the House to accord him the usual courtesy. 
My question ' is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that officials travelling with the Prime Minister on his recent trip to Indonesia held a briefing with Australian journalists during which  Dr Malik,  the Indonesian Foreign Minister, was denigrated and described as Indonesia's Jim Cairns? Did the Prime Minister authorise or know about such a briefing? 
 I wish to raise a matter which concerns the future well being of literally thousands of children in New South Wales. 1 refer to the educational opportunities which are being denied to them because of the attitude of the present Federal Government. I am sorry to have to say that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  who has built up a reputation in this House for fairness and for speaking his mind has, however unwittingly, misled the Parliament in my view in some way. 
I wish to quote his reply to a question which was asked him on 28th February 1973 by one of the members on his own side of the chamber. ] refer first to the question which was asked as this demonstrates the point that the Minister did not answer the question as it was asked. As reported at page 38 of Hansard of that date, the Minister was asked: 
Did the New South Wales Government make a specific application to the Commonwealth for additional funds to employ qualified teachers currently available for but unable to gain employment in New South Wales. 
That is a fairly straightforward question. The Minister for Education chose not to be straightforward in his response. This is what he said: 
. I have not received any letter from the New South Wales Government asking- 
Here is the let out, I guess - in specific terms for Commonwealth finance to assist the New South Wales Government with unemployed teachers. 
The Minister went on to say: 
The form of submission which came to me from  Mr Willis  and was subsequently sent to the Prime Minister . , . 
He admits that there was a submission. But he gave the undeniable impression to anybody reading that reply that the submission from  Mr Willis,  which he admits he received, did not deal with the teachers who were available and which he chose to call unemployed. 
I would like to take the House through some of the aspects of this case, the chronological order of events. Let us look at the facts behind this statement and the answer given by the Minister for Education. Firstly, on 27th December 1972 there was a public statement by the Minister for Education in New South Wales in which he said that he had written to  Mr Beazley  seeking a meeting at the earliest possible time to talk over with the new Minister for Education at Commonwealth level some of the problems facing the Education Department of New South Wales. That was on 27th December. The conference which be sought was granted to him on 4th January and following that conference a Press statement was issued by the Minister for Education in New South Wales in which he said, amongst other things, that discussions ranged over all the aspects of education, from pre-school to tertiary school in all its forms. Following that a letter was sent by the Minister for Education in New South Wales to the Commonwealth Minister for Education at about the end of January and he released a Press statement about the contents of that letter. He did not give the specific terms of the letter but he did release a Press statement about the contents of it. Part of that Press statement reads: 
In all I have asked for an allocation of $4 .4m which would involve the employment of over 1,100 additional class teachers, remedial teachers,  teacherlibrarians,  etc. 
If the Commonwealth grants the State's total request, the current over supply of trained teachers will be quickly absorbed. 
In my request to  Mr Beazley  f have pointed out thai at this stage I am essentially concerned with the employment- 
I emphasise that phrase -  of teachers in a manner that will increase significantly the quality of education, while avoiding any further expenditure on capital cost items which would delay employment opportunities. 
Again I emphasise the phrase 'Employment opportunities'. On 1 6th February 1973 the Minister for Education in New South Wales released another statement in which he elaborated on the 1,100 teachers who were seeking employment in New South Wales and for which funds to employ them were not available. He spoke about them in some detail. He said: 
Many of the 1,100 teachers seeking employment have placed such restrictions on the districts in which they are prepared to teach as to make early appointment extremely difficult, if not impossible. 
He spoke about the various categories of these teachers who are seeking employment. He mentioned the fact that: 
. 260 married women applicants are seeking employment in specified country towns, usually those in which they now live. 
He said: 
Another 260 married women will teach only  in their  own or adjacent suburbs in the metropolitan area. 
Only 40 of the married women teachers living in Sydney are prepared to consider an appointment anywhere in the metropolitan area itself. 
I mention this because in all this there is very clear emphasis on the fact that teachers were available for employment and there should have been no doubt in the Minister's mind that this was the case. 
 He mentioned these teachers who were seeking employment. This is what he said: 
. priority will be given to special education involving remedial groups, improved use of library facilities through the appointment of additional teacher librarians and provision for continuity of instruction through ready availability of relief staff. 
Obviously here was a Minister for Education seeking to do the best not only for his teaching staff by endeavouring to employ these additional teachers but also, and much more importantly in my view, to bring about extra quality of teaching for the children of New South Wales. On 22nd February this year the New South Wales Minister for Education issued another news release which stated: 
The Minister for Education expressed his extreme disappointment at the Prime Minister's rejection of a request by the New South Wales Government for funds to employ immediately an additional 1,100 teachers in departmental schools. 
That was on 22nd February, yet on 28th February the Federal Minister for Education can say that he has had no specific request dealing with employment. What nonsense is this. It is complete semantics, in my view. The educational opportunities for literally thousands of New South Wales children are being shoved aside by this Minister - this socalled bastion of the people who alleges to bring educational opportunities to children throughout Australia. He is just ruthlessly shoving them aside and using semantics in answer to questions put to him in this House by members of his own Party. It is simply not good enough that people, particularly this Minister for Education, can fob off what is obviously a genuine request for additional funds to employ 1,100 additional teachers in New South Wales to do highly necessary jobs. If he rejects this application then he is depriving the children of New South Wales of quality teaching and depriving them of the facilities and the opportunity to make something of their lives. He could be damning them for the rest of their lives. 
-It has been a tradition that debate on an Appropriation Bill gives individual members the opportunity to canvass a wide range of subjects. Tonight I would like to deal with a question which is exercising the minds of many people in Australia at present - nuclear testing in the atmosphere. I would like to discuss a couple of the aspects of atmospherio nuclear testing. I want to begin my speech by quoting from the draft report of the Scientific Committee on the effects of atomic radiation to the General Assembly of the United Nations. The report, which was presented on 6th March 1972, said: 
Man has been continuously exposed to natural radiation since his appearance on earth and, until less than a century ago, was exposed to natural radiation only. Even now despite the widening use of radiation producing devices, the widespread radioactive contamination from nuclear weapon tests and the Increasing applications of nuclear energy and radio isotopes, natural sources are the main contributors to the average radiation exposure of human populations- 
This is important - and are likely to remain so in the foreseeable future. 
I think it is important to remember this even if only because a large segment of the population knows little or nothing about naturally occurring radiation and has the mistaken idea that radiation occurs only as the result of nuclear explosions. It is also important because any discussions about levels of radiation following a nuclear explosion should take place bearing in mind the naturally occurring radiation levels. Other people more knowledgable than myself know the precise details, extent and sources of some of the effects of exposure to radiation. But suffice it to say that natural radiation is of 2 origins - terrestial and extraterrestial. Man-made sources of radiation include mining for radioactive material, medical use of radioactive material both for diagnostic and treatment purposes, nuclear power production, miscellaneous sources such as electronic tubes emitting X-rays, but not designed for that purpose and, of course, nuclear explosions for both peaceful and non-peaceful purposes. 
Extraterrestial radiation originates in outer space. As a result the earth is exposed to secondary cosmic rays. Typical values at sea level in temperate latitudes are around 30 millirads per year. This figure increases with altitude, the dose rate approximately doubling every 1,500 metres, up to a few kilometres above earth. This is particularly important to Parliamentarians who travel frequently in aeroplanes because passengers and crews of high altitude aircraft are thus exposed to higher levels of radiation than are people at ground level. 
 Terrestial sources are radio-active nuclides present in varying amounts in all rocks and soils. They are also transmitted through food chains or are inhaled and lodge in the tissues of the body. Most of the world's population receives about 50 millirads of radiation a year from external sources and 20 millirads a year from internal sources. These all add up to about 100 millirads a person a year from natural sources of radiation, both terrestial and extraterrestial. 
The radioactivity concerning us originates from nuclear explosions - specifically atmospheric nuclear explosions associated with the testing of nuclear devices. It is well to remember that nuclear weapon testing has declined in rate over the past few years. Those tests carried out before 1963 still represent by far the largest series of events leading to global radioactive contamination. The United Nations report that I have already mentioned goes on to say that the debris injected into the atmosphere by these tests have now almost entirely been deposited onto the earth's surface, so that most of the residual radioactivity from earlier tests is now present in soil, crops and animal tissues from which it is steadily removed by a number of different factors. 
The fallout from nuclear testing of most concern is that which results from longer life particles of radio-active material. Leaving aside the technical details, the most dangerous radioactive isotopes resulting from nuclear explosions are strontium 90, cesium 137 and iodine 131. Strontium 90 is absorbed into the body and lodges in the long skeletal bones and may interfere with that most important of substances, bone marrow. Cesium lodges in the muscles and body fluids, and its effects can include genetic mutations; iodine with a short half-life of 8 days, concentrates in the thyroid and can upset the metabolic rate of the system. 
There are 2 common methods whereby such radioactive nuclides may be absorbed by man. The first has become known as the foragemilkman way and the second is called the soil route pathway. The first is important because comparatively short lived fallout such as iodine 131 finds its way to the human population in the milk they drink. The second pathway is important when one is dealing with the longer living radio-nuclides. I believe it is interesting to know that the United Nations Committee found that intake of strontium 90 is now lower than it was in the past because comparatively small amounts of it are absorbed from the soil by plants used particularly as foodstuffs or animal feed. 
The Committee concluded that the mean per capita annual doses to be received from strontium 90 and cesium 137, between 1955 and 2000 by the whole world population amount to one thirtieth of those received from natural sources. However iodine 131 in milk has been reported in populated areas of Australia, Polynesia, South Africa and South America and other places after the French tests of 1970 and 1971 at levels that may have given doses to infants equivalent to that received from natural sources. In recognition of this, Australia has instituted monitoring programs, one operating since 1957 monitoring the levels of long lived radioisotopes in fallout, particularly strontium 90 and cesium 137, the other being instituted because it is considered that fallout from a particular test or tests may reach Australia and dealing with the short lived radioisotopes, particularly iodine 131. 
I believe that we should look at the results from the 26 monitoring stations around Australia. The Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee Report No. 3, presented to the Federal Parliament on 13th April 1972, gave details of the fallout on Australia resulting from the 1971 French tests in the Pacific. It took about 16 days from the date of the first explosion for fresh fission products to reach Australia. They were monitored from late June until late November 1971, when the levels became so low as to make no further contribution to the radiation doses. The report concluded that the levels of radioactivity remained very very low and that the radiation doses were of the order of 0.1 to 2.2 millirads. These correspond to about 1.2 per cent and 2.2 per cent of the average annual background radiation from natural sources. 
With respect to idoine 131, the report tells that the Australian National Radiation Advisory Committee, in line with recommendations issued by the United Kingdom Medical Research Council, adopted a safety level of 840 millirads per year for iodine 131. This means that provided a child did not consume more than 840 millirads of iodine 131 per year in its milk its health would not be endangered. Tests were taken in 9 major population centres, covering about 75 per cent of the total Australian population, following the French tests, and the results indicated that the radiation doses to thyroids of young children consuming fresh cow's milk ranged from 4 to 62 millirads per year, and this is, of course, well below the safety limits. In fact, the total radiation doses from fresh fallout over Australia in 1971 were lower than those received from the 1966 series of French tests and comparable to those of 1968 and 1970. The 1972 tests resulted in fallout levels about one hundredth of earlier tests. 
I think it is good for us to reflect that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, when resuming tests in 1961 and during subsequent tests by that country and the United States in 1962, injected more radio-active debris into the atmosphere than all previous tests. The levels of strontium 90 and cesium 137 fallout have been falling steadily since 1965. France and China are the only 2 countries currently testing nuclear weapons in the atmosphere and thus contributing to nuclear fallout. 
The medical effects of irradiation are not for me to debate tonight, except to say that the chief fears are of increased cancers of all types and of genetic abnormalities either from gene mutation or from chromosomal aberration. At the levels of fallout registered in Australia it would seem to be unnecessarily alarmist, in my view, to suggest that they constituted a serious health hazard. Whipping up public fear will not solve the problem presented by atmospheric nuclear testing. This may lead honourable members to think that 1 do not believe we should protest about the French continuing atmospheric nuclear testing. Nothing could be further from the truth. I believe that we were quite right in protesting and in continuing to protest over the years and that we should take whatever responsible action we can to mobilise world opinion against those who continue to conduct atmospheric nuclear tests. When I say that I definitely include the People's Republic of China. 
I have said we were right in protesting and continuing to protest. We were right because any addition to background radiation should be minimised. Whilst Australia has less cause to protest than other countries in terms of actual fallout on its territory, we are in a position of some influence in the Pacific and we can assist the protests of smaller Pacific nations whose real concern when expressed individually, may not be accorded much weight. But we should not be confined to the Pacific. We are also a part of the world community and our concern should properly extend to all regions of the world. If we adopt that view, the actions of the Chinese must be of importance to us also. In fact Australia has protested about the French tests in the Pacific ever since they were commenced. These protests became progressively stronger. On 29th March last year the then Minister for Foreign Affairs released a statement saying that the Australian Government remained opposed to all nuclear tests particularly in the Pacific. The Department of Foreign Affairs had delivered a note to the French authorities expressing our opposition and our concern. He went on to say that the note recalled our past opposition to such tests in the Pacific. It re-affirmed our interest, as  a  party to the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty of 1963, in seeing the Treaty universally applied and supported. It reiterated our community of interest with the nations and the peoples of the Pacific and emphasised the deep concern of these people at the continuation of the tests. It finished with  a  re-statement of our opposition. 
We continued to make our opposition known and at the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment we sought to promote  a  form of resolution which would mobilise the greatest number of delegations in opposing atmospheric nuclear tests. This principle is already endorsed in the Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1963, banning testing in the atmosphere, outer space and under the water. We are a signatory whilst neither France nor China has signed this treaty. We felt that the Conference was not the appropriate forum to attempt to extend international obligations in the field of disarmament and therefore we tried to amend the New Zealand and Peruvian resolution. When this was not acceptable to the movers we abstained at the committee level vote, along with 13 other countries including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia, because we disagreed with the details of the wording. We reiterated our strong opposition to the tests and voted for the resolution at the plenary session, once again making our opposition clear and unequivocal. 
On 1st August last year we announced at the fourth session of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Seabed and Ocean Floor, that, with 11 other countries, we would be sponsoring a resolution declaring that no further nuclear weapons tests likely to contribute to the contamination of the marine environment should be carried out. We requested the  Chairman  of the Committee to forward the resolution to the Secretary General for referral to other bodies including the Conference of the Committee of Disarmament. Our protests continued to escalate, culminating with our cosponsoring of a resolution with 12 other sponsors inviting the General Assembly of the United Nations to declare itself in favour of 2 main objectives: Firstly, a halt to all atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons in the Pacific region or anywhere else in the world, and universal support for the Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1963; and secondly, the suspension of all nuclear weapons tests in all environments and the negotiation of a treaty banning all such tests. 
In his address to the Assembly on 27th September 1972 the Australian Foreign Minister said: 
Australia would particularly like to see the negotiation of a comprehensive treaty with effective provisions for verification and control to prohibit the conduct of nuclear weapons testing in all environments in all states. The first step towards that objective should be, in our view, the universal acceptance and Application of the existing treaty banning nuclear weapons testing in the atmosphere. But we still do not have universal acceptance of this treaty and there is still no halt to nuclear weapon testing in the atmosphere. 
Our resolution was subsequently passed with a large majority. I mention this because, contrary  to some popular opinion, it  shows a consistent, long term opposition to atmospheric nuclear testing, exhibited by the previous Government over very many years. This opposition increased in intensity and culminated in our successful resolution to the General Assembly of the United Nations. Our opposition was not only to the French tests but to all testing - atmospheric testing particularly. 
There are now only 2 countries testing nuclear devices in the atmosphere - China and France. Both test sites are about the same distance from Australia. Tests at both sites result in some fallout on Australia - much less than on other parts of the world, but nevertheless measurable. It is absolutely ridiculous for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to say, as he did in answer to a question in this House on 13th March: 
The physical features which give Australia that option of approaching the International Court of Justice against the  Frencn  tests are not applicable against the Chinese tests. 
That is sheer nonsense. We do have fallout from Chinese nuclear testing on Australia. Whilst in physical terms Australia is fortunate because the fallout here is so slight, nevertheless we have an obligation particularly to the smaller nations of our Pacific region to act in their interest and add weight to their concern. It would be completely wrong for Australia not be be seen as acting to protect these smaller nations as well as speaking on her own behalf. But we must be consistent. We must make the strongest protests to the French - and also to the Chinese. 
While diplomatic relations were not established with the Mainland Chinese we could protest only in general terms through the United Nations. This we did, following up on general protests with a specific note handed to the French authorities. Now that the new Government has established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, similar channels for specific protests are open to it. If atmospheric nuclear tests are contemplated by the Chinese then we are duty bound to protest to them in similar vein to our protests to the French. We would be hypocritical and cowardly if we did not. 
The most effective form of protest is open to debate. The Government speaks of taking the French to the World Court. This has several potential drawbacks, the first one being that the French may argue that matters of national security are involved and that the World Court had no jurisdiction in such a case. On the other hand it could be that the French would welcome such an opportunity to state their case and may even call Australian experts to substantiate their proposition that their tests are 'cleaner' than any before and well within internationally accepted safety limits. Should they win the case Australia's position would be immeasurably weakened. In any case the World Court has no power to enforce its injunctions unless the Security Council decides to support it. This is not a possibility because both France and China would veto any Security Council action. 
If we cut off diplomatic relations we will be in the same position as we were with China and will be able to make only general appeals to the United Nations without direct communication with the French Government. No good could come of that. Additionally scientific and technological exchange of great significance to Australia would be lost. If we imposed trade sanctions we would hurt ourselves much more than we would hurt France - and trade sanctions are not particularly effective anyway. The balance of trade between Frauce and Australia is substantially in our favour and we could end up putting Australians out of work with no real results being achieved. It may be that the Prime Minister knows that an appeal to the World Court is not a goer and that he is encouraging  Senator Murphy  in his ambitions to argue the case before that body in the knowledge that, on the one hand, no effective result would be achieved and, on the other hand,  Senator Murphy  may be humiliated. In any case, if and when action is taken against the French, a believable and honest Australian Government would have to make similar protests against the Chinese. It it does not do so, it is guilty not only of cowardice but of deceit and dishonesty as well. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member may deliver his speech as he sees fit. 
Order! The honourable member will refer to honourable members by their electorate. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is very keen to support me I know because he, as I do, feels hurt that of all members in this Parliament this Minister should propose such action. I can recall the great speeches he has made in the past in support of the Parliament and democracy but here tonight he is wanting to gag the people's representatives in the Parliament. It is a thorough shame. He ought to be ashamed. The Minister is red faced; probably he is thoroughly ashamed of himself. This is the third incident we have seen recently. The AttorneyGeneral announced that he wanted to set up his own political FBI and we have the Prime Minister holding Press conferences outside and making major announcements to the Press rather than to the people's representatives in this chamber. This is the last straw - the Minister for Services and Property wants to gag democracy and gag the Parliament. 
In addressing my question to the Prime Minister I refer him to the Press conference he gave on Tuesday, 13th March last, during which, in answer to a question, he said: 'Australia is not discernibly affected by nuclear tests by China'. I ask the Prime Minister: Has radioactive fall-out from Chinese nuclear tests been registered in Australia? In order to justify his statement which I have just quoted, will he inform the House of the relevant percentages of total radioactive fall-out registered in Australia attributable to Chinese and French nuclear tests? 
I would like to add briefly to the remarks made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  We believe that there are 2 aspects of special importance which are contained in the amendment. Firstly, we believe - and this has been stressed by the honourable member for Chisholm - that it would assist in future planning, not necessarily at universities or colleges of advanced education, but at other educational institutions in Australia if this information was made available to the Australian Universities Commission as well as to members of this Parliament and the people of Australia. I think that those responsible for the expenditure of public funds have a duty to give to the people who provide the funds some readily available accountability as to what has happened following the expenditure of such funds. I would like to stress very strongly that we in no way suggest that the autonomy of universities should be cut down in any sense. What we are seeking to do is to ensure that information is provided for future planning purposes and, incidentally, information about the differing administrative procedures adopted by separate institutions. 
There is no compulsion on any of these institutions to allocate any specific proportion of the funds made available either by way of grant or by way of loan. It is up to the institutions themselves to decide how the moneys will be allocated. What we are saying is that it would be of great use to know the effect of the differing procedures adopted by the separate institutions. One of the easiest ways in which this information can be made available is for the Government to adopt the amendments which have been moved by the Opposi tion. Most of the sections of the amendment mentioned by the honourable member for Chisholm relate directly to the administration of the scheme by the educational institutions. It may be thought that amendment (iv) which deals with the academic progress of students assisted by way of grant, loan or by any other means, impinges on the individual rights of students assisted. Let me make it clear that we do not intend that the individual student should be singled out for assessment and report by name. What we are seeking is a general return in response to the spending of money or the allocation of moneys to him to enable those assessing the results of the allocation of moneys to judge for themselves what result the allocation of moneys has had in lowering the failure rate which could be attributed to financial difficulties experienced by students. 
I reiterate that the amendment fits in with 2 concepts which I believe are of great importance. Firstly there is the concept of reporting the results of the spending of public moneys so that the public can have a ready accessibility to information about the spending of those moneys. Secondly, I think it is most important that material is readily available to enable not only those people responsible for drawing up additional plans in the future to be able to make more informal decisions but also for those involved with policy formulation on both sides of the House to have this information' readily available. 
As the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  said last night, the Opposition does support in broad principle the legislation at present being considered by the House. We support these 3 Bills - the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill and the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) - which are being debated in a cognate manner. We support the concept of assistance to needy students. We support the concept which sets out to achieve additional social workers. We support also the decision to allocate increased moneys for libraries to be developed at colleges of advanced education. There is no doubt, as the honourable member for Chisholm said last night, that there is a great and growing need throughout the community for increased numbers of social workers. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in his address to the House also mentioned this growing need. I think it is somewhat symptomatic of the development of our society and the way in which family units are being increasingly fragmented that this need is developing. 
I am very conscious of the problems particularly of the elderly people in the electorate of Warringah. I know just how useful trained social workers are and how much benefit would result from an increase in the number of trained social workers available not only to voluntary institutions working in the Warringah electorate but also to those institutions supported by the local council. I am very pleased that there is to be an increase in the number of males who will undertake courses in social work. I think this is a significant response to a deeply felt social awareness by a large number of people and I think that the increased number of males being trained for social work will result in increased benefits right throughout the community. 
Dealing very briefly with the proposal to increase the allocation of funds for libraries at colleges of advanced education, I am one of those who believe very deeply that library facilities, not only in educational institutions but also right throughout the community, should be built up in the most rapid manner possible. I was a student at the University of Sydney before doing a post-graduate degree Sydney before doing a degree at Oxford. I was amazed at the difference between the library facilities available to the students at the University of Sydney and those at Oxford. The experience of being within walking distance of, I think it was, approximately 7 world class libraries in the case of students at Oxford was something which was an extremely eye-opening and mind-expanding experience for me. I believe that not only should students have access to these libraries but also that we should try to increase the availability of library facilities for the general public. I commend to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)in  fact 1 have written to him about this matter - that not only should he support the concept of an increased allocation of funds for libraries at educational institutions but also he should not forget about municipal libraries. I am not quite sure whether this comes within his responsibility, but certainly it should come within his interest. He should support the concept of an increased allocation of funds for municipal libraries. 
Dealing with the problem - and it is a problem - of needy students, there is no doubt that this is a problem which has been with us for many years and will be with us in the foreseeable future. At every university and at every college of advanced education there are and there will be from time to time students who experience difficulties in completing their courses mainly because of the financial difficulties in which they find themselves. I was very interested in the amount of $3m selected by the Minister to be divided up between the universities and the college of advanced education to assist needy students. The Minister did not inform the House how this amount was arrived at. This was an omission because I believe very strongly that in any allocation of public moneys the House and the electorate should be informed as to how the decision was arrived at. What reasons were behind the choice of $3m? Why was it not more or less than this figure? I ask the Minister when he is replying to the second reading speeches to inform me and the public how he arrived at this figure of $3m. I think that the fact that this is a comparatively small amount is, in its way, a tribute to the support that the previous Government gave to tertiary institutions, and particularly to its increased support for universities and of course its development of the concept of colleges of advanced education. 
It is rather interesting to note that one of the chief growth areas in education in Australia is in the number of students attending tertiary education institutions. Approximately 200,000 students throughout Australia are attending tertiary education institutions this year. The previous Government in an accelerating fashion over the last 10 years recognised the growth of tertiary education institutions and significantly increased the number of scholarships of various types to students attending those institutions. For instance 29,800 scholarships were made available in 1972. Also 71,000 students held scholarships that year, and there were 4,000 Aboriginal student scholarship holders. This situation can be contrasted with what obtained in 1961 when only 4,800 scholarships were available. Of course, there has been a tremendous increase in the direct allocation of Commonwealth expenditure on education as such. I would just instance again that in the period 1967-68 the Commonwealth allocated $176.5m and that this amount was increased in 1971-72 to $345m. I think that we can truthfully say that the provision of these scholarships and of course the living allowances which are available to scholarship holders who come within the provisions of the means test, has to a significant extent cut down on the need for extremely large amounts of money to be made available to needy students. Although I mentioned living allowances, I would not like it to be thought that I believe that the living allowances given to scholarship holders are adequate. I do not think that this is the case at all. 
The question of needy students is not a simple one. In a number of instances it has been shown that a substantial proportion of students who fail more than half of their course subjects in any one year do so primarily because of financial difficulties which they have encountered during their period at a tertiary education institution. Those who received the maximum living allowance find it still increasingly difficult to cope with the charges and the costs which they face as students both at universities and at colleges of advanced education. The then National Union of Australian University students in 1969 conducted a very detailed analysis of the minimum costs facing students at tertiary institutions who were living in private accommodation and paying their own fees. I will deal with the question of fees at a later stage. This body found that the absolute minimum amount which students required to support themselves in any form of respectability was $1,632. I again point out that this analysis was carried out in 1969. I might add that fees represented less than one-third of this figure and that those fees were made up of not only the actual course costs but also included additional costs such as union fees, sports union fees and other additional charges made on students. 
The problem of needy students is not confined only to those who do not hold scholarships. Many applicants for additional assistance are in fact Commonwealth scholarship holders or scholarship holders of some sort. The problem is exacerbated in the case of people who previously have held Commonwealth scholarships. These are people who have lost their scholarships because they have failed some subjects. Such people are caught up in a very vicious circle because their financial difficulties are such that they find it extremely difficult to keep on with their course and if they do not satisfactorily complete their course work they find it increasingly difficult or impossible to regain their scholarships. 1 am very pleased that the legislation introduced by the Minister gives universities and colleges of advanced education the responsibility of allocating the funds they receive and the right to decide whether this allocation wi.l be in the form of a grant or a loan. I believe very strongly that the people best equipped to know the particular circumstances of each individual student are those closest to the student and not someone from some remote bureaucracy. This task should be performed by the people at the institutions who are concerned with a student's well-being and education. I think that this practice in regard to the allocation of funds is one that should be encouraged. As I have said, I am very pleased that the Minister has taken the step of giving universities the right to decide who will receive he'p, what the extent of that help will be and the way in which the help will be provided. 
I am very conscious that because of rising costs, tertiary education universities and colleges of advanced education face the prospect of losing their autonomy as more and more of their funds are provided from public moneys. I am one who believes that universities should have the maximum possible autonomy. One of the ways in which this can be achieved is to give these institutions not only the right but the responsibility to decide on the allocations of moneys ceded to them by the Government. Also I would like to point out to the Government the danger of adopting a niggardly approach to needy students. The cost of keeping students at tertiary education institutions is rising all the time. I believe we should take whatever steps we can to reduce the failure rate of students at these institutions because a year repeated is a very costly business not only for the students but also for society as a whole. If one of the prime causes of failure is financial need we should look very closely at the provision of funds to avoid or at least lessen to the maximum possible extent the contribution that financial need makes towards the failure of students. 1 would advocate a policy which errs on the side of generosity rather than one which seeks to be penny wise and pound foolish. 
The Minister in his second reading speech spoke of fee abolition. I was a bit disappointed to read this because it is one aspect of the legislation which concerns me. The Minister said that the legislation would continue for only one year because fee abolition will be introduced next year and the necessity for the allocation of this money will then be lessened. The abolition of fees is to be the subject of a separate debate and I hope that we are given the opportunity of debating this question because I know that the Minister feels strongly on it. We all know that he made a statement before the last election concerning his views on the abolition of fees and that the views put forward in that statement are at variance with the policy he is forced to espouse at the moment. I am a strong believer in the fact that entrance to universities and educational institutions such as colleges of advanced education should be on the basis of academic excellence. Once the student is accepted at a university he or she should not be unduly hampered by financial difficulties. It is not pertinent at this point to argue about pre-university educational experiences in terms of education opportunities. We are concerned about the student once he is at the university. The scholarship system does not cater for the poorer student of lower academic standard. This is why I support the legislation introduced by the Minister for Education. 
I point out that fees are only one aspect of student costs. They are by no means the main cost; they are only a fairly small proportion of them. As far as I know, we have not yet had an accurate statement of what fees will be abolished next year at tertiary institutions. I should like the Minister to make that plain in his reply to the second reading speeches. The abolition of fees will not specifically help the people who need it most - in other words those students of perhaps lower academic standard, students without scholarships. Therefore, it is wrong to presume that abolition of fees will eliminate the need for assistance to needy students. There will always be needy students and there will always be a need to assist them. We should be looking to see what we can do about fee abolition and whether the money that would be saved if fee abolition were not undertaken would be better spent in assisting needy students in other ways. Wc in the Opposition foresee a need for continuing help to students in financial difficulties. Therefore we propose to move amendments to the legislation put forward by the Minister. 
I stress that these amendments are not aimed at curtailing the rights or the autonomy of universities. They are significant in the fact that they seek to elicit information as a result of the operation of this legislation over the coming year, in order to provide guidelines for more meaningful legislation and a continuation of the assistance to needy students in the coming years. I hope that the Minister, who is a fair minded man, will look at these amendments in this light. In other words, we are seeking to obtain information which will be of enormous help in casting further legislation which we all agree is necessary to provide financial assistance for needy students to cut down on the economic and personal lo;,s occasioned when a student, in many cases through no fault of his own, fails his course. This is a loss which the individual and the community can ill afford. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. As a preface, I refer him to his Press conference of 8th May at which, in reply to the question 'Have you had any response from the Chinese Government on your protest note on the nuclear testing?', he said: 'The protest to China was oral, so there would be no written response'. 1 also refer him to an answer to a question on notice reported in the Senate Hansard of 15th May in which  Senator Murphy,  in reply to a question asked by  Senator Webster,  said that the Prime Minister had furnished the following answer: 
The protest took the form of  a  letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Chinese Foreign Minister,  Mr Chi  Peng-fei.  The letter was banded to the Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister ... by the Australian Charge d'Affaires in Peking. 
Was the Prime Minister's answer at his Press conference on 8th May incorrect or was the Prime Minister's answer provided for  Senator Murphy  incorrect? Finally, precisely what form did the Australian protest to China take? If it was a written protest, does the Prime Minister expect a response? 
I join with the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  today in somewhat regretfully drawing to the attention of this House and of the Australian people the paucity of performance that has characterised the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  since his elevation to that office. I was somewhat surprised when I heard the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  earlier today seek to defend the Prime Minister. He compared him with Don Bradman. I think  Sir Donald  Bradman should consider taking out a writ for defamation. The Minister said that we were frightened to ask the Prime Minister questions because we always knew that we would get the correct answers. That is just not so. 
I want to draw to the attention of the Minister for Services and Property and of the House some of the occasions on which the Prime Minister has let himself and this Parliament down very badly by providing what can perhaps kindly be described as inaccurate answers. Only yesterday we heard the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  having to make a personal explanation because the Prime Minister had said in this House in answer to a question from another honourable member that he had no knowledge that  Mr K.  T. Li was Minister for Finance for Taiwan when the honourable member for New England originally asked a question about  Mr Li's  admission to Australia. This subsequently was pointed out by the honourable member for New England to be totally false. When the honourable member for New England framed the question on page 1647 in Hansard, he specifically mentioned  Mr Li's  official position in the Government of Taiwan. Yet some days later the Prime Minister in answering another question in this House said that he did not know  Mr Li's  position. Today I asked the Prime Minister about the Chinese protest note. The Prime Minister's answer has been shown to be grievously wrong. He was wrong not only in answering the question in this House but also in the substitute Parliament, the Prime Ministerial Press conference. 
Today I asked about the fact that the Prime Minister had stated that the protest note was oral. He had said that on 8th May at his Press conference. Yet in supplying an answer to a question on notice to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for inclusion in the Senate Hansard he stated that the protest took the form of a letter. That hardly supports the assertion of the Minister for Services and Property that the Prime Minister always gives correct answers. 
I also asked the Prime Minister about the effect of nuclear fallout from Chinese atomic tests in the atmosphere. In answering me in this House he said that it was oneten tb of total fallout recorded. Yet in response to a question on notice in the Senate he provided another answer. He said that it was one-sixth. Even then he sought to obfuscate the truth by giving the impression that the effect of the Chinese nuclear fallout in Australia was one-sixth of that provided by fallout from French tests. In fact it is onesixth of the total nuclear fallout on Australia. The French nuclear tests make up some other proportion of it. The honourable member for Boothby referred earlier today to incidents of violence and I want to add to that list. In the Prime Minister's speech in Canberra on 21st March last, at a dinner in honour of  Mr Bijedic  at the Lodge, he made a statement which has already been quoted but I think it is important enough to repeat. The Prime Minister said: 
Yet I have to state as a cold fact that every known act of grave violence on political grounds perpetrated in Australia in recent years has come from the extreme right. 
Let us test the validity of that statement. The honourable member for Boothby has said that he has a list of 58 acts of political violence which can hardly be said to have come from the extreme Right. 1 would like to add some more. For instance, on 14th August 1969, 2 plate glass windows were broken at Australia House, which houses the Department of External Territories. An anonymous caller to the mass media claimed responsibility on behalf of the Brisbane branch of the People's Liberation Army. Everybody would agree that that is an extreme right wing organisation! Damage was assessed at $2,000. On 19th December 1969, 6 large windows were broken at the Commonwealth Centre in Melbourne. Again responsibility was claimed by the People's Liberation Army. Damage was estimated at $3,000. On 2nd March 1970 a Molotov cocktail was thrown at the United States Consulate-General in Melbourne. Fire broke out in the premises of the AustralianAmerican Association causing damage estimated at $7,000. Does the Prime Minister suggest that these acts of political violence were perpetrated by right wing extremists? 
On 3rd May 1970 windows were broken at Honeywell Pty Ltd and the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation by a breakaway group of May Day marchers. Three people were arrested. Are May Day marchers extreme right wingers? On 7th May 1970 a home made bomb was used in an attempt to damage the United States Consulate-General in Melbourne. In May 1970 violent and destructive raids were carried out by vigilantes from the Builders Labourers Federation in Sydney. In the 'Australia Left Review' of August 1970  Mr J.  Mundey, the Federation's Secretary and member of the National Committee of the Australian Communist Party, is reported to have said: 
The Communist Party of Australia pre-Congress and Congress discussions and decisions certainly stimulated me and encouraged the style of offensive strike weapons developed in our struggle. 
Would anybody suggest - even a person so misinformed as the Prime Minister - that the Australia Left Review' is a publication which espouses extreme right wing views? On 2nd July 1970 - the honourable member for 
Boothby has already mentioned this incident - 2 Molotov cocktails were thrown into the Melbourne premises of Australian General Electric. Again responsibility was claimed by the People's Liberation Army. Damage was estimated at $10,000. On 5th July 1970 bricks and Molotov cocktails were thrown into the electoral office of the Prime Minister in Melbourne. Again responsibility was claimed by the People's Liberation Army. Was that an act by extreme right wing groups? 
On 6th July 1970 a Molotov cocktail was thrown into the premises of Keep Bros and Wood in Melbourne. Again responsibility was claimed by the People's Liberation Army. Damage was estimated at $300,000. On 15th July 1970 an envelope bomb containing phosphorus exploded when opened at the Adelaide office of the Department of Labour and National Service. Luckily for the people involved, when the envelope was opened no injuries were caused but they very easily could have been caused. A second bomb was found and the letter was safely opened. Were these acts of right wing extremists? 
On 12th May 1972 an anti-war demonstration took place in Sydney. Student groups attacked the Pan Am building. Smoke bombs were thrown and bottles and steel cubes were aimed at police. As a result 57 people were arrested. The United States Consulate-General and the Pan Am building in Melbourne were attacked. Windows were broken and police were attacked with bolts, nuts, rocks, poles, flares and crackers. Were these right wing extremists? On 21st August 1972 the Assistant Secretary of the New South Wales State Labor Council was threatened and kicked by left wing members of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia in what he called one of the worst displays of union violence he had seen. That was hardly right wing extremism.  Mr R.  J. Hawke was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 23rd August 1972 as saying that these tactics were part of the strategy of the Communist Party of Australia. These are hardly acts of right wing extremists and yet the Prime Minister of this country was reported as saying: 
Yet I have to state as a cold fact that every known act of grave violence on political grounds perpetrated in Australia in recent years has come from the extremist Right. 
What absolute nonsense. We have heard a lot about the Prime Minister's staff. They are serving him very badly. All they have served up so far has been puerile or pornographic. He deserves more and the Australian public deserves more. 
Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I want to raise a matter which should be of interest and concern to all those who have extolled the virtues of Australian beaches and have benefited from the feeling of security of being watched over while using these beaches by those selfless individuals, the members of Australia's surf life saving clubs. There can be few more admirable organisations than the Australian surf life saving movement. Not only does the organisation, formed on the principle of vigilance and service, exemplify the highest ideals of man's concern for the well-being of his fellow-man; it also has saved the lives of literally hundreds of thousands of people and has brought great notice and credit to this country, in a way no other organisation can emulate. 
It has been the inspiration for similar movements throughout the world. It has provided an example of community service, allied with enrichment of personal skills and development of individual character of enormous significance. It has played more than a small part in the development of an Australian image reflecting great credit on this country. It is not a moribund organisation. In fact the reverse is true, as the surf life saving movement has experimented with and adopted new equipment, new techniques and new methods in response to changing knowledge and technology. For all these reasons, and many more, the surf life saving movement is deserving of our utmost respect and assistance. 
I mention assistance because the surf life saving movement is experiencing severe difficulties in attaining its objectives of providing the most up to date service and protection to the maximum number of people using Australia's beaches. The organisation is suffer ing from absence of financial support in three main areas. These are the provision of basic accommodation, the provision of basic equipment and the provision of sophisticated equipment. Let us be under no misapprehension. It is through no lack of effort by club members that the clubs lack finance. In my own area of Warringah, as a patron of one of Australia's oldest and most famous clubs, the Manly Club, and a supporter of the other clubs in the electorate, I know at first hand how hard the members work to raise money. Just a few weeks ago the honourable member for Mackellar and I, together with hundreds of others, walked 10 miles in a walkathon to raise money for the power boats operated in the Warringah peninsula. Raffles, barbeques, appeals, parties - a host of methods are used by the clubs to raise money. I am glad to say that in the Manly-Warringah area, the local councils as well as local businessmen contribute significantly to club funds. But the cost of buildings, the cost of maintenance, and the cost of equipment is rising more quickly than the income of the clubs can stand. This is not confined to Manly-Warringah; this is reflected, I believe, in most areas in which clubs operate or would like to operate. Just recently the New South Wales State Centre of the surf life saving movement adopted a report from a special committee formed to investigate the financing of surf club premises and equipment. 
I believe that the Federal Government should take great interest in and support some of the proposals of that committee. In essence the proposals involve three stages of development. The first stage involves consideration by local councils to provide redevelopment loans to build facilities to be known as beach pavilions. Ideally, these pavilions would include room for equipment and gear of a beach inspector with access to telephone and public address, a bunk room to accommodate 12 to 20 bunks and cooking facilities, a captain's room, a secretary's room, a committee room, female and male public dressing rooms with toilet facilities, a room for a ladies auxiliary, a locker room and internal showers for club use, an ambulance or casualty room, caretaker's and members' resident quarters, assembly room or hall with kitchen facilities, and a boat and gear room. These pavilions, to be adapted from present buildings, should be a required and accepted part of beach development. It is obvious that with increased leisure time becoming available, more and more people will use beaches and tax to the utmost the present facilities. 
The second stage involves the provision of funds to build new facilities similar to the type I have outlined. Both these stages involve the co-operation of councils and State and Federal governments. What are needed are long-term loans, at little or preferably no interest, being made available to the councils and, most significantly, this not being counted as part of their normal loan allocation. In other words, special provision and special loans should be made to seaside councils specifically for the development of these beach facilities and not having the effect of reducing the councils' loan allocations for other local government work. The Commonwealth could and should readily co-operate with the State in the provision of such special loans. 
The third stage deals particularly with equipment. I am not talking about basic equipment such as surf reels which are financed mostly by club members or donors, but I am speaking about sophisticated equipment of high cost such as power boats, beach buggies, towers and so on. To finance this equipment I fully concur and endorse the suggestion that a fund should be created, financed by the State and Federal governments plus contributions from the life assurance offices. There can be no argument that the life assurance offices benefit greatly from the activities of the surf life saving movement  -  191,339 lives had been saved by the clubs at the time of completion of the Association's last annual report - and I can see no reason why this Government should not immediately initiate discussions with the life assurance offices aimed at reaching an understanding whereby these offices contribute to the fund I have suggested. It may mean the setting of a special levy on the life assurance companies, or other means may be preferred, but I would suggest and urge in the strongest terms that prompt action be taken. 
I have not mentioned costs. I hope that my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar, will have the time, will support me and will deal with this aspect of the suggestions I have raised tonight. I have not taken a political stance. I have sought only to present to this Government a suggestion which, if implemented, would reflect great credit on all par ties, and be of untold value to an organisation at once unique and irreplaceable. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to a broadcast on 9 May of an interview recorded with Prince Sihanouk in which Prince Sihanouk said: 
We hope that Australia may withdraw her Embassy from Phnom Penh and become neutral visibly. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether official or unofficial discussions have taken place with Phnom Penh and consequently our recognito the withdrawal of our Embassy from Phnom Penh and consequently the recognition of the present Cambodian Government. Is it intended that our Embassy be withdrawn as explicitly suggested by Prince Sihanouk? 
 I rise this afternoon to raise a matter" which I have spoken on previously in the House. It is a matter which concerns every Australian and one which has provided the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in particular with a great deal of publicity over the last few weeks. I refer to the question of atmospheric nuclear testing. I raised this matter before for 2 main reasons. Firstly 1 wanted to try to reduce the public hysteria and lack of knowledge about nuclear radiation. I did this by outlining the causes of radiation, both natural and man made. I would like to stress this point again because I think that there is a degree of public hysteria which is being whipped up most irresponsibly. Unfortunately the Attorney-General is by no means guiltless in this respect. 
I would like to point out again that natural background radiation which every Australian is exposed to is of the order of 100 millirads a year whereas the total man made radiation which he is exposed to is in the order of between 2 and 4 millirads per year. I say this because there are a number of people, particularly pregnant women in Australia, who are extremely concerned about the effects of radiation upon their unborn children. Of course, they are not the only ones concerned. 
However a number of constituents have written to me about this very point. I think it is of the utmost importance then that, when we are discussing what can become a most emotional issues, we keep a degree of objectivity in that discussion. The second reason I raised this matter was to stress my position against nuclear atmospheric testing by whatever country carries out this testing. As we know there are only 2 countries at present which test nuclear weapons in the atmosphere, and they are France and China. In my previous speech on this subject I said that we were right to protest against the French. I still think that we are right to do so. But I argue for the need for consistency. Unfortunately I have not been supported to any great extent by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  whose position with respect to Chinese atmospheric nuclear testing has been ambivalent in the extreme. Firstly, he put to us the extraordinary position that because China was in the northern hemisphere and the winds went one way in the northern hemisphere and the other way in the southern hemisphere the Chinese testing did not have any influence on Australia. This, of course, was swiftly shown to be wrong by anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of the geography of this planet. Then on 8 May he put forward the extraordinary position that there had been an oral protest to the Chinese Government about their tests. But when he was asked whether he would expect a reply, he said no, he would not expect a reply to his protest because it had been an oral protest and therefore there would not be any reply. On the 15th of this month he was forced to repudiate this statement. In a written answer to a question on the Senate notice paper he said that in fact the protest note had been a written protest note which had been handed to the Chinese Foreign Minister. But he did not in a further question in the House, when he admitted that it was a written note, then follow up the obvious response to that question and say when he expected a reply. 
More information has been tabled by the Prime Minister on the effects of atmospheric nuclear testing and the resultant fall-out on Australia. A report dated April 1973 by the National Radiation Advisory Committee on Biological Aspects of Fall-out in Australia from French Nuclear Weapons Explosions in the Pacific, June-July, 1972, was tabled in this Parliament after I made my previous speech. I would like to quote from this report because I think it is very germane to my previous remarks about the need for objectivity and lack of panic when assessing the atmospheric fall-out from nuclear weapons on Australia. Paragraph  3  on page  2  of the report states:   the Committee assessments of these data were embodied in the  NRAC  Reports in March 1967, December 1967, March 1969, March 1971 and July 1972 on Biological Aspects of Fall-out in Australia from French Nuclear Weapons Explosions in the Pacific. It was concluded that fall-out over Australia from these series of French nuclear weapons tests in the Pacific did not constitute a hazard to the health of the Australian population. 
The report goes on to stress on a number of occasions that the fall-out did not constitute a serious hazard to the Australian population. In paragraph  8  on page  4  the report states:   . . monitoring of the nine major milk supplies gave no evidence of any sustained presence of iodine 131 following the tests. Further, the highest dose  rcorded  represented less than one four-hundredth of the dose to the thyroid which was the acceptable dose limit recommended in the NRAC Report of November 1965 to the Prime Minister. The NRAC concludes that these radioactive iodine doses do not constitute a hazard to the population. 
Paragraph  9  of the report - and this is a very interesting section - states: 
In relation to long-lived fall-out the situation is complicated by the fact that some parts of the very large injections of these isotopes by U.S., Soviet, and to a lesser extent British tests, are still appearing in Australia. 
Here is an interesting point for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam): 
There is also a growing contribution of these materials from Chinese weapon testing. 
That is from the report presented to the Prime Minister by the National Radiation Advisory Committe in April  1973.  As we know, the Prime Minister commissioned the Australian Academy of Science to prepare a special report on nuclear fall-out, and I have a copy of that here. It is entitled: 'The Biological Effects of Nuclear Explosion Fail-Out. Report to the Prime Minister, April  1973'.  This again was after I had made my previous speech. I wish to quote a couple of passages from that report. I quote firstly, from the Summary, wherein the first conclusion states: 
We find no reason to question the estimates of radioactive fall-out used in the reports from other authorities . . . 
So the Academy is going along with reports previously presented to the Government by official bodies. Conclusion  3  states: 
It is assumed (as all official reports have hitherto done) that the responses to the dose are proportional over the whole range. Australia, as the result of the French tests which have already taken place, could have - 
And I stress the word 'could' - 
One case of thyroid cancer per year due to the isotope iodine-131 and 1 to 4 other cancer cases per year due to strontium-90, caesium-137 and carbon-14. 
The report goes on at page  5  - this is rather interesting, too - to talk about the deposit of long-lived isotopes from various atmospheric tests. It states:   . . the longer lived isotopes will also be deposited on Australia from tests conducted in the northern hemisphere. Tests conducted in the northern hemisphere may be expected to deposit in the southern hemisphere roughly one-sixth of the long lived fission products which they inject into the stratosphere. 
These  2  reports lead me to a position which I find necessary to state in this House. I am afraid there are complaints involved. Firstly, I complain very strenuously about the scare tactics which have been used by this Government and to a certain extent, I am afraid, by the Australian Academy of Science in presenting the case against French nuclear testing not only to this country but to the world at large. Conclusion  4  in the report of the Australian Academy of Science states: 
We draw attention to the improbable event in which the explosion of a high-powered bomb was combined with quite exceptional meteorological conditions giving a high fall-out over Australia. 
I stress the words: 'improbable event . . . with quite exceptional meteorological conditions giving a high fall-out over Australia. The report goes on: 
Though this would be a singular episode, some increase in the above figures would be expected. 
The report goes on to deduce that higher figures for effects in relation to cancers in Australia could result from what the Academy says is an improbable event. The report does not say they would, it says they could. It also says: Other cancer cases due to the other isotopes could increase to much higher figures than at present levels of radiation. Mutations could lead to  2  deaths and disabilities per year in the first generation and to more than a thousand deaths and disabilities in all subsequent generations. A couple of aspects of this really worry me. Why would the Academy of Science put in as one of its conclusions a hypothetical case when it is supposed to be presenting to the Prime Minister and to this Parliament a factual case? Why would it present a hypothetical situation? Let us see what the French said about this. In another paper presented in the Parliament entitled 'Biological Effects of Nuclear Explosion Fail-Out - Report of Meeting between Australian and French Scientists, the French were very restrained. They stated under the heading 'Biological Interpretation': 
The risk calculated from observations made following high doses of radiation and without taking into account the various considerations described above therefore represents the upper limit of risk and not the actual risk. The actual risk may be considerably lower it may be nil. 
This was not mentioned in the report of the Australian Academy of Science. It stressed the upper limits and probabilities. It did not put the other side of the case, which is that the risk may be considerably lower or nil. With reference to the hypothetical case presented as a conclusion by the Academy of Science, the French scientists had this to say: 
The 2 groups examined the problems posed by the existence of temporary unusual occurrences in the behaviour of the atmosphere which, as the Australian Academy of Science report indicates, could cause, for a given Jest, over a limited region, fall-out higher than that observed simultaneously in the surrounding areas. 
For this effect to happen, the occurrence of these atmospheric peculiarities, which are moreover rare, must coincide with the simultaneous presence, in very exact locations, of radioactive cloud. 
The French group presented the results of studies of experiments on this complex problem carried out in France; certain of these results have been published by the French Academy of Science. 
The French experts judge that because of the relative geographic position of Australia and the test zone as well as the meteorological constraints imposed on those conducting the experiments- 
And this is important - it is highly improbable, if not impossible, that this effect could lead to a noticeable increase in fall-out over the Australian continent. 
Moreover, this phenomenon has not been observed in Australia during previous tests. As for the rare cases observed in the northern hemisphere, only a low increase (of the order of a few per cent) in dose commitments has resulted, because of the temporary and local character of the increase in radioactivity. 
The French very nicely point to the rather low standard of academic objectivity in the presentation of the report by the Australian Academy of Science. But what does the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  do with these figures? This is what really concerns me. The Attorney-General of this country says: Australians are going to pay with their lives'. This was said in a case before the International Court of Justice. Not even the seemingly biased report of the Academy of 
Science goes that far. It says that it could or it may happen; it does not say that it will happen. However, the good Attorney-General is not deterred by this fact at all. He says that Australians are going to pay with their lives. 
We should get into perspective the possible effects of nuclear fall-out. Let me give some actuarial figures on the risk of death in any one year in Australia. These figures put the case in perspective for people who are frightened about radio active fall-out from atmosperhic nuclear tests. The risk of death from lung cancer in any year in Australia is 1 in 4,000; from car accidents it is 1 in 5,000; from leukaemia due to natural causes it is 1 in 15,000; from drowning it is 1 in 23,000 from murder it is 1 in 100,000; from leukaemia due to the fall-out from all tests carried out so far it is 1 in 45 million; from .leukaemia due to the fall-out from the French tests it is 1 in 500 million. People who are worried about these things should keep these facts in mind. I have said earlier that I believe the report of the Australian Academy of Science is open to a great deal of question. Knowing some of the people on this body, I am surprised that they have put their names to it. I just hope that they were not subject to too much political pressure in their compilation of this report. 
It is also interesting to note that the Government, despite its open government policy, has not released 2 other reports on the effects of French testing on Australia. One is the independent report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which, I am told, has been given to the Prime Minister. It has not been released to the Australian public. The other is the report of 3 people who were sent to the French test site  -  2 public servants and a person from an academic establishment. They actually journeyed to the French test site to report on the measures taken to ensure the cleanest - if one can use that word - possible testing. This report has not been released either. Let us look at one other aspect of the Government's position; that is, its position in relation to the Chinese. 
Remembering that Academy of Science report, let us consider these figures: The total injection of nuclear fission products so far into the atmosphere in the northern hemisphere comes to approximately 511 megatons. From the Academy's own report, we can assume that one-sixth of this will find its way into the southern hemisphere. That gives us approximately 85 megatons in the southern hemisphere. The total amount of nuclear products injected into the atmosphere by the Chinese tests was 12.6 megatons. Taking again the Academy's figures of one-sixth, we would get an injection into the southern hemisphere from the Chinese tests of 2.1 megatons. 
The French so far have injected into the atmosphere 7.6 megatons. So rather than the very low figures that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has sought to portray the Chinese as having contributed, in fact the Chinese tests contributed more like one-quarter of the nuclear fallout on Australia of the French total. Compare this with the one-sixth which the Prime Minister indicated was the figure. He first said it was one-tenth and upgraded it to one-sixth but in fact the real figure is closer to one-quarter. I think it is rather interesting that the New Zealanders say it is closer to one-third, but let us give the Prime Minister the benefit of the doubt. There is very little doubt that the Chinese contributed closer to one-quarter as much of the nuclear fallout as did the French. 
So under any measurement, there is a very real case for Australia being consistent in its opposition to atmospheric nuclear testing and, if we are going to the extreme of taking the French to the World Court, we should certainly place a much stronger protest with the Chinese than the one which was firstly described as an oral protest to which, therefore, we would receive no reply and which secondly was seen to be a written protest and to which still we do not know whether we are to receive any reply. We certainly do not know whether there is to be any follow-up action. 
Let us take just one other aspect of this issue. The Australian Labor Party prides itself on its concern for all mankind. It is not a narrow, insular Party, confined to the shores of Australia. No, by jove, it is going to make its mark on the world. The Prime Minister is going to bestride the diplomatic world like a Colossus. Australia is really going to make its position felt. If that is so - if we are talking as we should about the real damage to mankind as a whole - let us analyse 2 interesting aspects of the countries which are testing nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. I refer firstly to test sites. The position of the Chinese test site means that fallout from the Chinese tests goes across the most highly populated portion of the earth's surface. The fallout goes right across China - its own country - and then goes immediately across Japan and finally on to the North American continent and around on to Europe. Therefore, the fallout from the Chinese tests affects literally thousands of times more people than do the French tests carried out on their site in the southern hemisphere. So there is no comparison on world figures or world effects between the 2 countries. If we are to be consistent - if this Prime Minister is to have any credibility in the eyes not only of Australians but also of the world - then he must protest to the Chinese as well as to the French. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be  moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Dr Cass)  read a third time. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 6) 1972-73 Second Reading 
Consideration resumed from 11 April (vide page 1320) on motion by  Mr Crean: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said, the Opposition supports the Bill. I wish to make just a few comments on it. I support the concepts outlined by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in his second reading speech. I think that it is a very wise step to ensure that superannuation payments can be transferred and that people are not disadvantaged by transferring from either the New South Wales Department of Education or the South Australian Department of Education to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I was very pleased to see the advances outlined in this Bill , in terms of books and equipment allowances and also the provisions for assistance in accomodation and other factors towards the development of teachers in their practice teaching assignments. I would hope that this legislation could be used as a model by the States and could be extended to the States so that teachers from the various State education departments might have the same opportunities as those teachers covered by the provisions of this Bill. 
I should like to see a situation in which, perhaps, an interchange of teachers could occurthat is, that teachers from the various State education departments could be transferred or seconded to the States or to the Commonwealth Teaching Service so that any tendency towards in-breeding within any one educational system could be lessened or eliminated. 
I think it would be a very good thing if maximum interchange between the teaching systems within the total educational environment of Australia were to be encouraged. I was also pleased to see the reference in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education to the role that the Commonwealth Teaching Service may play in Papua New Guinea in the future. That is an acknowledgement of the previous government's attitude towards support of the developing nation of Papua New Guinea. It will be a very important supporting role. I am one of those who believe that education in particular will offer a tremendous opportunity to the people of Papua New Guinea to be able not only to develop their own culture but also to develop their own nation. Any assistance we can provide towards this development is something that should be encouraged. I am glad to see that the Minister has acknowledged the fact that the Commonwealth Teaching Service may be involved in this development. 
I was a little disturbed by the Minister's statement that the teaching force for the Australian Capital Territory ought to be a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. I support the concept that there ought to be a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas, but I hope that this will not be restrictive in any way and that the Minister does not see the Commonwealth Teaching Service as being either pre-eminent or the only laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. 
-I am sure that the State and other educational services will agree with that interjection, but 1 hope that the Minister in his wisdom will do all he can to support the State and other education authorities in the development of their own systems as a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. I am not quite sure of what is the distinction between new and valid. I think they have to be tested before they can become valid. I have mentioned this point because on reading the recent report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission- the Karmel Committee- I noted that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory systems were not included in its recommendations. That has given rise to a great deal of disquiet among various educational authorities and those who are interested in the provision of education in both the State and the non-State educational systems. If they had been included this would have altered the measure of the index for government schools quite appreciably. I think this is something that can be developed further at a later stage. I point out that in my view it would be wrong if the Commonwealth Teaching Service were to be considered to be the only teaching service which could supply a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. Many schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are the object of envy of many other educational systems. I hope, as the Minister has signified, that he will not confine his interests just to the Territories but that he will be doing all he can to support the influx and the testing of new and valid educational ideas in other systems. I join with the honourable member for Wannon in supporting the Bill. 
The Australian National University Bill 1973 seeks to bring about a situation in which, when the Bill becomes an Act, the Australian National University will have the authority to regulate traffic, to erect parking notices and to enforce parking and traffic controls anywhere on the University site. Of course, any controls adopted by the university must not be inconsistent with the Motor Traffic Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory, although this Bill allows them to be different. Parking and traffic controls can then be implemented under the authority of a university statute made by the Council of the Australian National University and approved by the Governor- General in Council. The University will have under this Bill and a statutes made by the University Council power to control moving traffic on university roads. 
A special committee, with which I shall deal later and which was set up to review this problem of traffic control on the University campus, believes that the control over moving traffic should not in the immediate future in any case be removed from the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. The police, of course, have the right to act when public roads and public places are concerned and no University statute can take away any powers conferred on the police under the Motor Traffic Ordinance. However, the University through its own traffic officers will control parking and may control the movement of vehicles, speed limits and access to the site. Under the amended Act and by virtue of the statute the university will have power also to erect signs and notices relating to parking and traffic, particularly in those areas to which the public has access. These are, of course, public places from a legal point of view. As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said in his second reading speech, the genesis of this Bill was a Bill introduced in 1970 by the then Minister for Education and Science, the  Hon.  Nigel Bowen. I will have to correct the present Minister who said that it was introduced on 27 October 1970. For the information of anybody looking it up, it was introduced on 28 October 1970. 
The Council of the Australian National University has been concerned for a great period of time about this problem of parking and traffic movement throughout the university campus and, following the speech in 1970 of the then Minister for Education and Science, in 1972 at the meeting of the Council of the Australian National University it was resolved on the recommendation of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the University to authorise the Vice Chancellor of the University to establish a continuing committee on parking problems. This committee has been working since that date and has now brought down a report and recommendations which still have to be considered by the Australian National University Council. I believe that the committee has done an extremely good job in its consideration of the problems of traffic movement and control within the university campus. I would like just to mention some of the restraints which the committee placed upon itself because they could serve as an example to other authorities acting in this field of traffic control. The report of the committee states: 
The Committee has had in mind the convenience of the motorist, the need to damp down irritations, natural resentments against fees and controls, the practical aspects of situations, the necessity for adequate communication of policies, and the need at all times for good public relations and public image. A continuing aim should be to seek co-operation and not to arouse resentment in the minds of persons who consider they have a need to drive a car and park on the University site. 
I think that the aims of the Committee and the way in which it dealt with a somewhat sensitive subject - a subject which can lead to a degree of resentment from those using the site - are truly excellent. 
The Committee also recommended that the free internal bus service which circles the University site and which has commenced should be continued and should be given a long term trial. This is another enterprise which is taking place within the University grounds and which I think has a wider application than merely a test run at the Australian National University. Another aspect of the report which I found particularly praiseworthy was the suggestion that the University itself should meet from its own funds the cost of administering parking controls. It seems to me that this is a ready acceptance of responsibility. The Committee has done a good job not only in assessing its responsibilities but also in taking a positive outlook towards the problem of meeting the cost of any of its recommendations which are implemented. 
There is no doubt about the need for parking space and for these other aspects of traffic control within the University. It may be of interest to honourable members to know that the demand for parking space within the University was estimated in the traffic survey conducted by the Committee - the working party on car parking accepted the figures given - to move from a total of 3,750 places in 1974 to 4,819 places in 1980. These figures exclude the requirements of residents of University House, halls of residence, affiliated colleges and Graduate House. The Committee found no reason to question the estimate of demand, and accepted it. It also has been suggested that the Committee's report and recommendations, if accepted, should be implemented in January 1974. This will give the ANU Council time to consider the various recommendations of the Committee. I hope and confidently expect that at its next meeting the ANU Council, which certainly will have the report before it, will make a decision on the report, particularly on the suggestion that the recommendations be implemented from 1 January 1974. 
Perhaps the recommendations of this special committee could be detailed with some greater emphasis because the report has a degree of applicability not only to the Australian National University but also to other universities, and perhaps it has a wider application as well. The committee recommended: 
Subject to a Statute being in force, controls should be introduced from 1 January 1974. 
That the University internal free bus service be maintained and augmented, particularly to provide transport from Graduate House, City and to and from parking areas on the site. 
I will be very interested to see what utilisation there is of this free bus service and whether it is worth while to continue it in the future. The Committee recommended that the penalty payable for a breach of the provisions of the statute should be the fairly low figure of $4. When we take into account the pecuniary circumstances of many students, I guess this is a reasonable figure. The Committee recommended: 
That residents and staff of University House, halls of residence, affiliated colleges and Graduate House should not have authority to park or be permitted to park anywhere on the site, between 9.30 a.m. and 5 p.m., excepting the areas specially set aside for parking by residents having the appropriate authority, and that the University should issue those authorities to park, on the recommendations of the Master Warden or an authorised officer approved to act on their behalf. 
One of the special recommendations which I find most worthy and commendable and which I support is that of special parking spaces for disabled and medically handicapped persons. I think this is something which certainly should have a wider application outside of the Australian National University. The Committee recommended that apart from reserved spaces for mail vans and official University service vehicles spaces should be provided for other special people such as the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy ViceChancellor, the Secretary, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the School and Directors and Deans. The Committee has suggested that a permit system be instituted and that these parking controls should operate between the hours of 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Mondays to Fridays inclusive but not at all on public holidays. In addition to special spaces the Committee has recommended that a limited number of parking meters should be available for those without permits and others who care to use them on payment of a fee in all cases. 
There is one rather interesting and perhaps controversial recommendation. It is that permits to park vehicles- may be cancelled by the Registrar without giving reasons, but I am sure that the Committee has in mind the controversy this may stir up as it suggests there should be a right of appeal to the Parking and Traffic Committee. The annual fees suggested for a permit to park a motor car are again not excessive in my view. The Committee suggests $10 for a car and $5 for a motor cycle. But it suggests there should be no free parking anywhere on the site except for official service vehicles in 5 minute areas and for holders of day permits. There is one other aspect of the control and regulation of traffic on the campus of the Australian National University and this concerns the control of entrances to the campus. The Committee has considered this aspect but recommends that no immediate provision be made for control at entrances. The Committee recommends that controls should be considered after the permits have been in operation for a trial period. The final recommendation by the Committee is that the cost of operating parking controls should be met from university funds and that fees and fines should be accumulated and used to improve parking facilities, particularly capital works. 
The Committee suggests that the costs of operating the controls would be $27,500 in 1974. It also suggests that the fee income based on the recommendations that it has made would be $41,000 in 1974. This figure, of course, would be added to by the collection of fines which I have already mentioned. I have detailed the recommendations of the Committee in some sequence because I believe that the report presented by the Committee shows the degree of detail, application and interest that has been taken by it and the Council of the University as a whole. What has occurred has been as a direct result of recommendations made by the Council to the previous Government. These recommendations were recognised by the previous Government. Now the present Government intends to pass the Australian National University Bill which will give the University the opportunity to carry out the recommendations. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
The Minister to whom I intended to direct a question is not present. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  chose, in this Grievance Day debate, to canvass the whole range of the Karmel Committee report. I do not propose to do that. I wish to take up a couple of the points which he made. Firstly, he and a number of his colleagues have sought to make great capital out of the fact that education is the fastest growing sector in the Budget. I welcome this. But I point out to the honourable member that for the past few years education has been the fastest growing sector in the Commonwealth Budget. 
The honourable member, along with other members of his Party, mentioned the increase in expenditure in the field of education of $404m. I think it is only fair to point out that there is an element of deceit in the presentation of these figures, because $144. 6m is a direct transfer payment from the States and $90m is the result of decisions made by the previous Government. The latter is expenditure under the Australian Universities Commission, on colleges of advanced education and on the implementation of the recommendations of the Cohen Committee. That Committee was commissioned by the previous Government, and naturally we could have been expected to adopt its recommendations. So, let us look more closely at the increase in educational expenditure. Do not let us assume for a moment that it is all marvellous new work on the part of the present Government. 
I do not wish to discuss the whole of the Karmel Committee report and its recommendations. I wish to discuss only particular decisions of the Australian Government in relation to that report. I wish to make it quite clear to members of the Government Party that I am not just concerned about those children who attend independent schools. 
I will. 
I am concerned about the education of all children and the educational rights of all children. I do not propose to discuss in detail the educational philosophy contained in the Karmel report. I hope that we in this House will be given the opportunity to debate more fully the recommendations in the Karmel Committee report and to go into the details of the report in some depth. I am concerned, as are other members of the Opposition and many other people outside this Parliament, about the credibility of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  We have heard from the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  quotations detailing the Prime Minister's statements before the election and, of course, the results after the election. I do not wish to canvass that because we all know the Prime Minister's reputation for slipperiest when faced with obvious discrepancies in his utterances, but the Minister for Education 
I am not quite sure which remark you are taking exception to,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to an alleged ban on travel to Taiwan. Has an instruction banning travel to Taiwan been issued to Commonwealth departments and other authorities? If so, who issued the instruction? Does it involve both official and private visits for all categories of Commonwealth public servants? Has the ban been imposed at the request of any outside government or organisation? If not, why has the ban been imposed? 
I raise a matter of privilege,  Mr Speaker.  In his reply to my question this morning I understood the Prime Minister to say that the holders of official passports would not be permitted to travel to Taiwan. Members of Parliament hold official passports. Am I to understand that members of Parliament will not be allowed to travel to Taiwan on their official passports? If that is so, I ask that this matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges. 
Order! I suggest that the House come to order. 
It is rich societies such as ours that must discover the keys to survival of our increasingly over-populated arid depleted globe and point the way to a just and viable future for all mankind. These are the responsibilities which our predecessors - the Liberal-Country Party coalition government shirked and of which it probably was not even aware. They are grave responsibilities indeed. It is a tremendous task to justify the advantages we have and to develop our society so that Australians can reap the full benefit from their inheritance and so that we, as a nation, can play our part in advancing the interests of humanity. 
Order! I am afraid that your ministerial colleagues and others are not giving you the degree of attention which they should. I ask for order in the chamber. 
We are once more assuming our proper role as a leader in the development of social welfare programs and as a responsible and forward looking member of the world economy. Of course, many of the things the Government would like to do are not feasible at present. We all remember the deficit and the mess that this Government inherited from its predecessor. We are handicapped by the antiquated structure of the Australian Constitution. But because of the particular responsibilities that I hold as Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory, I will confine my remarks in the short time allowed to us in this debate to a discussion of the relevance of this Budget to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
In the Australian Capital Territory and to a lesser extent in the Northern Territory, the Australian Government has the power to act directly for the welfare of its citizens. It is my intention that these Territories should act as beacons, pointing the ways in which our society can develop not, of course, because the Territories should be singled out for special attention in any way but merely because they can be examples where the Australian Government has the power that it lacks in the rest of Australia. Provision is made in the Budget for a community health centre in the Australian Capital Territory, in the new suburb of Melba. This is the first of its kind in Australia. Residents of the appropriate suburbs can receive free treatment on the spot by government employed doctors. Also available is a chemist to fill prescriptions, a physiotherapist if that sort of treatment is needed, a dentist and social workers. In Scullin, an adjoining suburb, a similar community health centre is operating on a different basis, using doctors on a fee for service type system to give an alternative and a freedom of choice to the people of Canberra. This is a system that needs to be extended into other parts of Australia. One would hope that sooner or later this will be done. Other centres are planned for Canberra. We would like to see these facilities in all Australian communities, along with the more traditional health centres. The model is being created in Canberra. 
I refer now to public transport. The overwhelming majority of Australians live in big cities and have to battles with appalling transport facilities to get to and from work. Again in Canberra, where it is possible to do this sort of thing, we are trying to show the way to a better system. Radical new rapid transport systems are being evaluated and we are almost doubling our bus fleet at a cost of $2.4m over 2 years. We are introducing experimental free bus services in order to persuade people to leave their cars at home. We accept the responsibility of assisting people to get to and from work and we are doing something about it. We accept also the responsibility for getting them into their homes at a price they can afford. 
In the near future a whole new system of land distribution and a new integrated housing policy will be unveiled in the Australian Capital Territory. We are convinced that we can get owner-occupied homes and rental accommodation on to the market cheaper than it is at present and certainly cheaper than it would have been had our predecessors, the Liberal-Country Party government, remained in office. The Budget for 1973-74 will give us a 56 per cent increase in government accommodation units in Canberra. There, will be 1,505 units compared with 965 in the year 1972-73. It is a notorious fact that under the previous administration the percentage of homes built by the government of the day declined from something like 70 per cent of all built in 1957 to less than 30 per cent of all built in 1972. We are restoring the balance. 
The Budget provides also for the servicing in 1973-74 of enough land for the Government and private enterprise for the building of about 1,800 more homes than the 5,500 which were built last year. This is a significant percentage increase. I am reminded that my colleague the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  put it to me earlier this evening that the percentage increase of funds for housing throughout Australia coming from this Government is something in the order of 26 per cent - another significant percentage increase. This, again, is an attempt to redress the balance of the degree of rundown that had occurred under the previous Government. These initiatives will be welcomed by people on the government housing lists whose turn for a dwelling should come more quickly than was thought possible before the introduction of this Budget. The provision of more land should help those people in our community who prefer to help themselves with housing. Overall, the amount available for expenditure by the Department of the Capital Territory in 1973-74 will be $48m, an increase of 37.5 per cent over the amount spent on comparable functions by the former Department of the Interior in 1972-73. This is consistent with the large percentage increases that have taken place throughout the whole of Australia, whether it be on education, housing, social services, Aborigines, money spent on the cities through the Department of Urban and Regional Development or public transport. 
The Government will begin work in the Australian Capital Territory this financial year on a program of civil works amounting to some $120m. These new projects include S9.2m worth of education facilities, among which will be Canberra's first transitional colleges for fifth and sixth form pupils. This is yet another example of what can be done by a government which has the will and the determination to do it in the places where it can do it. There will be increased expenditure on social, cultural and welfare undertakings. Expenditure on social welfare will rise by 30 per cent from $518,000 last financial year to $649,000 this financial year. This will cover payments for distressed housing, for the new right of pensioners and others in need to a 50 per cent cut in rates, bus fare subsidies for pensioners, cash sustenance, food orders and clothing for people in need, and to bridge the time gap between applying for social benefits provided by the Australian Government and their approval. 
The Government will go ahead with construction of an Australian Capital Territory remand centre to provide a modern alternative to the present unhappy arrangement bequeathed to us by the previous Government of holding ACT male prisoners in the Goulburn Gaol and of sending women prisoners to the Silverwater complex in Sydney. An amount of $20,000 has been allocated to extend the activities of the Family Planning Association beyond the present 2 centres for advice in Beauchamp House and the Woden Plaza to Canberra's 2 public hospitals, to the health centres and to Jervis Bay. The Canberra Theatre Trust grant will be increased from $37,900 last financial yeal to '$67,000 this year. To assist old people the Department of the Capital Territory will make sites available free in various parts of Canberra to non-profit organisations interested in building homes for the aged. This offer will be open to acceptable organisations such as the usual charitable institutions, lodges and professional bodies. 
Let me sum up some of the benefits the Government has brought to the Australian Capital Territory. I deal first with land. Dwelling units on serviced sites are up $1,800 on last year to $7,300, a rise of 33 per cent. Government houses and flats are up $540 to $1,505, a rise of 56 per cent. Estimated expenditure on Commissioner for Housing loans is up $14,950,000 over last year to $18,750,000. Expenditure on public transport is doubled to an estimated $2,311,000. In the area of social welfare and culture expenditure is up $166,9 15 or 15 per cent. So the story could go on. More important than money, of course, are the ideas that are being implemented in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I instance selective price control, shopkeepers' charters, law reform and new methods of land distribution. 
Canberra is a young city, just as Australia is a young country. There is no reason for the mistakes of the past to be repeated here, and we are determined that they will not be. It is already a better place to live in than most Australian cities and it can be made better still, hut we must remind ourselves continually that in doing these things in the Territories they are being done as examples for the States, for the rest of Australia to follow. The Whitlam Government recognised the importance of the Territories when it set up the Capital Territory portfolio. It also recognised the importance of the Northern Territory when it decided to base the Department of the Northern Territory in Darwin instead of allowing it to be neglected as it had been for so many years under previous governments. 
I turn to the Northern Territory. We have budgeted for a record expenditure of more than $l92m this year - clear evidence of our concern for the welfare and development of the Territory. We have further underlined our commitment to the future of the north by creating a separate Ministry to administer it, and, as I have said, basing the new Department of the Northern Territory in Darwin. This must be regarded as a major step forward. It marks the end of 'the bad old days when the Northern Territory was just a tucked away appendage to the grab-bag Ministry of the the Interior, to be visited infrequently by its Minister and thought about even less. I am committed to creating conditions in the Northern Territory in no way inferior to those enjoyed by other Australians. Darwin and Alice Springs are growing at approximately 12 per cent per annum compound. Record expenditures are contained in this .Budget in the fields of education and health services and substantial increases have been provided for community facilities in the north. This is part of our overall plan to increase the attractiveness of the Northern Territory as a place for families to live and put down their roots. Development in its broadest sense can not be achieved unless full recognition is given to the social needs of the community. 
One of the most satisfying features of the Budget from the point of view of the Northern Territory is the record amount of $53m to be spent on capital works. Here again the Government has sought to achieve a balance between the economic and the social needs of the Territory in apportioning this record figure. For example, a first step has been taken towards improving the quality of life in the smaller centres through the provision of better public utilities and town roads. We are endeavouring through a land acquisition scheme to introduce the benefits that we see in Canberra of proper town planning for the people of the Darwin area. By converting the land tenure system to leasehold - true leasehold - we will try to protect the interests of both the present residents and generations to come against speculation and misuse. 
We recognise Aborigines are a major proportion of the Northern Territory's population. They are a people who have been sadly neglected by past Australian governments. In this, the first Budget of the Whitlam Labor Government, we have outlayed more than $117m for Aboriginal advancement. This is almost double the provision made in the last Budget by the Liberal and Country Parties. It is an earnest determination to do everything we can to make up to these deprived citizens of Australia for the neglect of the past. I commend the Budget to the House. 
1 think this matter arose due to a lack of clarification in the answer given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and you, in your statement yesterday,  Mr Speaker,  said that if the Prime Minister were to read Hansard, in view of the matter- 
Australia the responsibility in regard to foreign affairs. It is very important that honourable members should have the full facility to give to this House their advice or their views after having ascertained the facts as best they can. It may well be that in an important matter like this, it is part of the privilege of members, which is germane to their discharge of what is probably their most important duty in this House, to be able to visit freely countries overseas, relations with which are important. 
I raise a point of order. My decision whether to put the matter on the notice paper bears very largely on the answer that the Prime Minister gives to the question whether members of Parliament on official passports will be allowed to visit Taiwan. He has not said that they will not be allowed. Before I can make a decision on placing the matter on the notice paper I need to know from the Prime Minister whether members of Parliament are to be prevented from travelling to Taiwan on official passports. 
Mainland China, North Korea, or North Vietnam'. On the opposite page appears in red type: 'The bearer is a member of the House of Representatives of Australia.' I suggest that that practice should clear up any matter of privilege. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  in a wide-ranging speech - one could call it a provocative speech - mentioned both direct and indirect taxation and said how well his Government had budgeted for this coming year. He mentioned direct taxation and said that the Government had not broken any promises made prior to the last election not to increase direct taxation. I would like to remind the honourable member for Wide Bay and others on that side of the House that direct taxation has been increased, contrary to the promises of the Government, particularly for private companies and also for pensioners. Direct taxation has been imposed upon pensioners in direct contravention of the promises of the Labor Party before the last election. He also mentioned indirect taxation. I think it should be apparent even to the honourable member for Wide Bay as well as to other members of his Party that indirect taxation, as everybody should know, hits harder at the lower income earners because they are less able to afford rises in indirect taxation. Rises in the cost of whisky, rises in the cost of beer that will come later and rises in the cost of petrol and cigarettes will affect most greatly those least able to afford them - in fact, those members of the community which the Australian Labor Party professes to represent. 
Like others in this debate, I wish to speak about inflation as it occurs in Australia today and I would like to start with this quotation: 
There cannot be one person in Australia who would not feel that inflation is our biggest problem and that the Government must do everything it possibly can to deal with it. Inflation - 
Here is the definition of it - rapid increases in the cost of living - adversely affects every worker and person in Australia. The lower his income the worse he is affected. No government can remain inactive about inflation. 
No responsible person would argue with that statement. In fact this is what members of the Opposition, a number of other people and a whole host of economists have been saying for some months now. It is a statement that could have been made by any person horrified about the present state of the Australian economy and the people responsible for bringing this state about. It is a statement that demands that the Government undertake responsible and effective measures to combat this inflation, even at the risk of alienating its traditional support, and it should do this if it is to have any credibility in the eyes of the electorate as a whole, 
I will tell you in a second. It is certainly not a statement, as I am sure honourable members would, agree, of a supporter of a government claiming to have kept effective control of the Australian economy. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  wants to know who made the statement. It was the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He made it less than a month ago. He is the No. 3 ranking Minister in the second Whitlam Ministry, a man supposedly intimately concerned with and involved in the development and implementation of Government policy. He went on to make some other points, most of which were erroneous, but then said that the Government found itself confined almost alone to further currency appreciation or to tariff reductions to deal with inflation. I believe it is worthwhile to look more closely at the causes of inflation in Australia today, the possible solution and what actually has been done by this Government. Firstly, it should have come as no surprise at all to the Government that inflation could get out of control. The 'ANZ Quarterly Survey' of January 1973 laid it on the line. This is what it said: 
The intransigent problems of the Australian economy are inflation of costs including wages and salaries and of prices. 
The survey went on to point out that inflation can destroy the fruits of greater activity by eroding the real value of the rewards to workers and other income receivers, impairing business confidence and creating uncertainty in budgeting and forecasting for large scale or long term enterprises. It then warned that policies of seeking full employment by boosting government spending and encouraging private spending might so augment monetary liquidity that inflation trends already too strong to tolerate - this was said in January this year - may be further aggravated. It further pointed out that the revaluation carried out by the new Government in December 'however attractive as a piece of political oneupmanship' had still to demonstrate its economic efficacy. As a means of countering inflation import costs are a very small and slowly rising component of Australian costs. 
This warning and many others were disregarded. The Government continued to support and indeed encourage union demands for increased wages at high levels and for additional substantial working benefits such as the introduction of the 35-hour week and extra leave. Public sector spending increased as though money was going out of style. Eventually however, I am pleased to say, the message began to seep through. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 22 June was moved to predict: 
Inflation seems certain to occupy the centre of the stage as the key economic problem. 
The Australian Industries Development Association bulletin No. 242 of June 1973 put it more strongly. It said: 
There is no question that inflation is the major crisis facing Australia. Finding a means of bringing it back to acceptable levels is or should be the major pre-occupation of governments, Federal and State, and of employees and employers. 
The bulletin believed that the main antiinflationary effort must come from the 
Federal Government and said that the Federal Government acknowledged that position in its submission in the last national wage case. A review of the growth in the inflation rate must take into account movements in wages and salaries, in prices and productivity, in money supply and in fiscal policy. The great debate, the great point of difference between the Government and the Opposition rests on the place that costs, particularly wage levels, have had in boosting the rate of inflation. The influence of costs on prices is a crucial area of difference. The Government would try to persuade us that price increases are the chief cause of inflation and that wage claims and increases are merely attempts by the unions to catch up. On the other hand, we of the Opposition have argued consistently that large wage increases have had a very great influence on inflation by forcing the prices up. 
I believe that this requires some examination and that we should examine the basis of this difference to see where the truth lies. It is reasonable to argue that wages should keep pace with inflation and should also gain some reward from increased productivity. If one takes this basis for assessing realistic and fair wage increases - a basis which in fact was agreed to by the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - an index can be constructed showing increases in wages and salaries plus the rate of productivity gained, and it may be compared with the rate of increase in the consumer price index. If we then compare the result with the actual wage and salary increases we can quickly see whether wage rises have forced up prices or vice versa. Using this formula we find that for all but the last 4 years - in fact through most of the decade of the 1960s - wage rises and productivity rises stuck very closely to rises in the consumer price index. Of course, during this long period the average rate of inflation was  2i  per cent a year. In fact this rate of inflation was the envy of comparable industrialised nations throughout the world. This rate of inflation, I hesitate to remind honourable members, was achieved under a Liberal-Country Party Government. In 1968-69 the rate of productivity growth diminished and consumer prices changed only slightly as did the increase in the rate of average weekly earnings. But in 1971 the position changed with productivity low, wages and the consumer price index both growing, but significantly with wages increasing at a much higher rate than the consumer price index. 
If we use the base of 1966-67, in December 1972 price increases and productivity gains would have justified an increase of 38.7 per cent in average weekly earnings on the March 1967 figures. The actual increase was 61.5 per cent, showing that wages and salaries had far outstripped prices. The position, of course, has worsened a great deal since December 1972. During the last year the quarterly consumer price index over the year showed a steady decline - that was up till December last year - and inflation was reduced to a manageable 4.8 per cent a year. Since this Government came to power the rate of inflation has risen to a yearly rate of more than 13 per cent and the Budget implies an acceptance of an annual rate of inflation of 10 per cent. 
And what has happened to wages and salaries? They have continued, with the active assistance of this Government, to expand at a rate far in excess of rises in prices. This has shown without a shadow of a doubt that, using the Treasurer's own formula, the Government's refusal to acknowledge the impact of wages and salaries has been fuelling the raging inflationary fires. What then has been the Government's attitudes and actions to this problem admitted by the Treasurer and by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to be the chief problem facing the Australian economy? It has undertaken two revaluations amounting to an upward valuation of the Australian dollar of approximately 12 per cent. It has undertaken an across-the-board tariff cut of 25 per cent and it has set up a Prices Justification Tribunal and yet another commission. 
Let us examine each of these measures. Firstly, revaluation. We have heard previously and during this debate about the antiinflationary nature of revaluation and the effects it will have in containing prices. Yet the Treasurer just recently, on 22 June last, said that the primary purpose of revaluation was not to moderate the rate of inflation but to correct a fundamental disequilibrium in Australia's balance of payments. Australia under this present Government seems to be the only country worrying about its overseas reserves. Germany does not worry about it; Japan does not worry about it; the Americans when they had this problem did not worry about it. But the Australians under this present Labor Government seem to be terribly concerned about it. 
When examining revaluation as an antiinflationary measure it is worth keeping in mind that the tertiary sector is leading in generating money incomes. This growth in the tertiary sector does help with any unemployment problems but it has a relatively low productivity growth potential compared with the primary and secondary industries. Of course, this means that real growth is slow. We should also remember that the tertiary sector employs about 53 per cent of the total labour force and enjoys a large degree of natural protection from any competition from other countries. Therefore, in terms of service costs and charges, which contribute a large proportion of the increase in the consumer price index, revaluation should have little effect in restraining inflationary pressures which arise from rising monetary incomes in the tertiary sector. Of course, it will have a real effect on our export industries in both the primary and secondary sectors. These are the areas of greatest potential productivity increase, an essential development if we are to cope in any way with inflationary pressures. 
It is very problematical whether or not revaluation will make imports cheaper. It certainly will make exports more expensive. Even if some imports are cheaper, are they the ones which are necessary to slow down the rise in the consumer price index? Even the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the man who is never consulted about revaluation - it is a pretty good bet that as soon as he leaves Australia we can expect another revaluation; it has happened twice now - admitted that the increased imports may not be the ones we need. 
That is obvious. Cars, radios and stereo sets may be fractionally cheaper but ask the housewife how much these goods have contributed to her rising weekly costs and she will quite rightly laugh in our faces. The other major initiative has been the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut which was, of course, directly contrary to the frequently stated policies of the Minister for Secondary Industry and the Treasurer. But breaking undertakings seems to be the rule rather than the exception with this Government. However, one could perhaps excuse the action if it led to the result that was intended. Let us see whether it will. Professor Hogan, 
Professor of Economics at Sydney University, had this to say: 
The decision to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent is the most remarkable one taken so 'far by the* Labor Government in the economic sphere. 
Professor Hogan states that the reason advanced for the cuts - that is, to increase competition and efficiency and to stimulate more imports in order to dampen inflation - has little relation to the main stimulus of rising prices and expanding money incomes in Australia. He believes that the main causes of the current inflationary burst in Australia are to be found in the rapid growth of prices for foodstuffs and many industrial raw materials, largely reflecting demand conditions in world markets, the adverse fiscal position of recent months and mounting wage demands. He, quite logically, puts the proposition that reducing tariffs will have little direct impact on any of the features I have mentioned. He goes on to detail 2 interesting points. He believes that the expectation that tariff cuts will contribute to greater efficiency and competitiveness is surprising because there is much evidence of the competitiveness of many protected industries. In those cases where this situation is not the case surely selective tariff reductions would have been the fairest and most effective action. 
Professor Hogan also points to the irony of  the situation where the Government, increasingly critical of foreign-owned companies operating in Australia, is pursuing policies which will encourage local firms to seek offshore assembly and manufacturing facilities in other countries in our region. Even if they are ineffectual at least these measures were attempts to reduce the rate of inflation. Let us look at the reverse side of the coin. We all know by now the Treasurer cannot drive a car. He has said so repeatedly. He would therefore not know that it is very bad driving, it is expensive and it does not get you very far if you put one foot hard on the brake and the other foot hard on the accelerator. 
This is the trouble because this is exactly the way the Treasurer is driving the economy. On the one hand , we have revaluation, tariff cuts, prices justification tribunals and credit squeezes which are designed to curb the inflationary spiral. Honourable members will notice that there is not one action designed to cut down on large wage demands or opposition to job conditions which are certain to add to costs and reduce productivity. On the other hand we have a deficit Budget - an inflationary Budget - pouring money into the non-productive sectors of the economy. It will give a tremendous boost to public sector spending. It provides for measures the direct effect of which will be to the disadvantage of the private sector - the wealth and productivity sector - of the community. We have the Government supporting wage demands, demands for extra leave and a 35-hour working week. 
Those are all measures which can only add to costs and hence eventually to prices. In fact, we have the Government crowing about the public sector being the pace setters for the rest of the country. We can only come to 2 conclusions: either the Treasurer and the Government have no conception of the necessity to take all embracing action to curb inflation even if it means becoming unpopular with their political masters; or, on the other hand, the Prime Minister and the Government are cynically cold bloodedly and deliberately generating a state of economy designed to lead people to the conclusion that the Federal Government has not sufficient power to deal with inflation and therefore that the Australian people in desperation will acquiesce to the demands for total centralised power in Canberra. This appears to be what they are seeking .Such a course of action would be, in my view, despicable in the utmost sense of the word. The people of Australia must not allow themselves to be hoodwinked by such a cynical, dangerous, heart-breaking poverty producing exercise in achieving the centralised socialist dream. 
I have not previously spoken in this debate. I have found it a most difficult debate in which to vote because whilst emotionally I agree with many of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  intellectually I am not persuaded to vote with him. I agree with the people who put forward the proposition that the death penalty has not been proved to be a deterrent. Therefore I cannot go along with the argument that by maintaining the death penalty these dreadful acts will be in some way diminished. The honourable member forBradfield  (Mr Turner)  has said that he supportsthe amendment because it is roughly comparable to the proposition of treason when treason is defined more closely. But in viewing the amendment moved" by the honourable member for New England I think that if necessary particular laws could be introduced to cope with what would be a most unusual situation in this country. In view of the time I conclude by saying that whilst I have voted for the abolition of the death penalty I would pur very strongly that the people who administer the judicial processes of this country should look extremely closely at the method of imprisonment and also at the proposition that certain people for whom the death penalty would apply obviously should have their paper marked very clearly 'Never to be released'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to draw your attention to something which occurred during question time and which probably because of the position in which you are located in this House you were not able to hear. When the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was taking a point of order there was audible hissing from the Press Gallery. This is not the first occasion that some comment and audible noise has come from the Press Gallery during question time. I would ask that you,  Mr Speaker,  take this up with the  President  of the Press Gallery to ensure that such behaviour does not happen again. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I second this motion because I believe that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has detailed extremely cogently exactly why this motion should be treated as a matter of urgency. As the honourable member for Moreton said, and as all honourable members know, the integrity and probity of 2 members of this House are under question. One is a Minister of State of the Australian Government whose integrity is in doubt as a result of the actions of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in this House last night. The Opposition is forced to this course of action simply because the Government refused leave for the honourable member for Moreton to move a motion to set up a select committee. This Government professes to espouse the cause of open government and it alleges to have come into power in Australia on the basis that it would reveal the workings of the Government and would present the people with a degree of administrative skill and a degree of probity such as they have not had before. It certainly appears to be doing that but, unfortunately, not in the manner it professed it would. This is a matter of major importance. It transcends the question of the integrity of 2 members of Parliament, it transcends individual parties and transcends individual people. It strikes at the very basis of parliamentary government and Cabinet government. It therefore gives me great pleasure to second the motion moved by the honourable member for Moreton. I hope that every member of this House who professes to defend the cause of parliamentary democracy and of cabinet government will wholeheartedly support it. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to the Minister's speech in the House yesterday. Could the Minister inform me whether the engineer who contacted him was the Chief Operational Engineer of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority? If it was not, why did this engineer contact the Minister instead of the Chief Operational Engineer? Why did the Minister tell this engineer to inform the unions rather than inform the Chief Operational Engineer and the Secretary of the Snowy Mountains Council? 
The Bill before the House seeks to amend the Immigration (Education) Act which was first put before the House in 1970, debated to the second reading stage in 1971, and became law in 1971. It arose out of the then Government's concern that both adult and child migrants should have every assistance and every opportunity and in fact should get specialised assistance to acquire facility in the English language rapidly. At that time there was plenty of. evidence which showed that the problem was serious. In the debate on 16 February 1971 it was mentioned that a joint CommonwealthNew South Wales Department of Education survey showed that, of 7,700 migrant children surveyed, English was spoken at home all or most of the time in only 15 per cent of the households. In fact English was never spoken in 42 per cent of the households. If this situation had prevailed the difficulties in the progress and assimilation of those who were restricted in this way are easy to imagine. 
The previous Government, as I said, took action. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is at the table has detailed some of the action that the previous Government took. A series of promulgations was brought in and an amount of money was made available so that the salaries of special teachers could be paid to provide special instruction to migrant children and to purchase approved capital equipment of the language laboratory type for use in special classes to be established. Also, money was made available for the provision of suitable teaching and learning materials and for the cost of training courses for special teachers. 
The then Opposition, in response to the initiatives by the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government of that day, did not reject or seek to oppose the Bill. An amendment was moved to the Bill by the then shadow Minister for Immigration and present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  but the only real sub stance to the Opposition's case was that there was no provision in the Bill for capital expenditure in terms of the building of extra classrooms. That was in fact the only real argument put forward by the Opposition. I should point out that at that time the shadow Minister for Immigration had this to say about the scheme: 
The full cost of the migration scheme is extremely high. Only a small percentage will be spent on the education of migrants, yet this is generally accepted as the most important factor in their assimilation. 
He was talking, of course, about education. He went on to say: 
Is it too much to ask that a substantial amount be made available for capital expenditure on buildings to alleviate this problem? Members of the Opposition believe that this should be the most important part of this legislation, quite apart from the provision of teachers, and- 
He went on to make this prediction - unless the amendment is adopted we believe the scheme will fail. 
I think we can assess whether the scheme has failed by having a closer look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration, which was presented in this House just recently. He spoke about the difficulties that had been experienced and said: 
. there has been a substantial development in the child program. Expenditure has increased from $1.8m in the financial year 1970-71 to an expected $8.4m. in the present financial year. The number of special teachers employed to give instruction in special classes has risen from 546 in 1970-71 to approximately 1,500 in the current financial year. 
The Minister went on to say: 
We expect that close on 60,000 children will be receiving instruction in special classes this financial year. 
I think the Minister for Immigration, who is sitting at the table, will agree with me when I say that that is a substantial endorsement of the policy of the previous Government. The prediction by the present Minister for Services and Property that the scheme would be a failure if the then Government did not adopt the amendment put forward at the time by the then Opposition has been shown to be nonsense. However, as the Minister for Immigration has pointed out, it is obvious that more needs to be done. 
I was interested in the reference by the Minister for Immigration to a survey of child migrant education in schools of high migrant density in Melbourne. That survey was initiated late last year. I commend the Government for the part it played in the conducting of this survey. The survey was undertaken by the Victorian Education Department, the Catholic 
Education Office in Victoria, the Commonwealth Department of Immigration and the Commonwealth Department of Education. I think that this co-operation between and coordination of effort by the Commonwealth Government and the Victorian Government has much to commend it. In fact, it is the way in which we of the Opposition believe that agreements and activities which it is hoped will bring about worthwhile results should be undertaken. As a result of this investigation, as the Minister has said, Cabinet has approved a joint submission by the Minister for Immigration and the Minister for Education to extend the child migration education program to include provision for supplementary accommodation. This is to be done by means - as he described it - of demountable or portable classrooms. I suppose 'demountable' is a jargon term. 
I think it adequately describes the fact that these classrooms can be moved easily to a position in a school which is in need of them and, when the need for them has passed, be shifted elsewhere for use rather than become redundant: Again I commend the Government for the fact that following its decision the State and independent school authorities were asked to establish priorities. I am glad that the Government has acknowledged the fact that the State and independent school authorities have more idea about the need for the provision of these facilities than a centralised bureaucracy located in Canberra', lt is unfortunate that the same approach is not adopted right across the broad range of Federal Government activities. However, the Government has sought and obtained the co-operation of these authorities. 
I notice that 420 schools have been listed by the various education authorities as being schools where additional classrooms are required for this purpose. The cost of the provision of an additional 550 classrooms will be quite substantial. It has been estimated that at an average cost of $9,500 for their provision, erection and furnishing an amount of $5.225m will be required over a 2-year period. I notice that the Minister has set aside $2m for 1973-74 for the emergency classroom accommodation program. The Minister went on to say that further expenditure can be expected in the course of the 2 years for which the program is designed. I hope he will be more precise about that and not just say that it can be expected. I think a lot of people would be happier if he were to detail this program with more precision than just the somewhat amorphous statement that further expenditure can be expected. 
Despite the Minister's activities in this respect there are many questions still to be answered. I have interested myself in reading the reports of the task forces established by the Minister in the various States. I was particularly interested to read the report of the Queensland Migrant Task Force, which detailed some of the problems occurring in Queensland in relation to, in particular, pre-school education of migrant children. Perhaps I should refresh the Minister's memory on it. The report reads: 
Children are raised in a non-English speaking environment and on reaching primary school arc unable to participate in school activities ... On 11 January 1973 the Director-General of the Queensland Department of Education approached the Department of Immigration for funds to establish pre-school facilities for migrant children in existing centres in West End and Paddington in Brisbane. The cost was estimated to be approximately $30,000 per annum. It was envisaged that similar areas would be established nee the West End and Paddington centres became operative. 
I am sorry to read the next sentence in the report: It reads: 
This application was not successful but it was suggested to the Director-General of Education that he approach the Australian Government Department of Education for assistance in the form of a research grant or, alternatively, contact the Australian Government Pre-Schools Committee. The latter course of action has been taken. If this application is unsuccessful- 
Perhaps the Minister could tell us from his knowledge of Cabinet activities whether the application has been successful-  the State Department of Education has indicated they would like their original submission to the Department cf Immigration reconsidered. 
I am very sorry that the Minister did not grant this application earlier this year because, as I am sure he would appreciate and endorse, pre-school education is of immense importance in the total education of any child. If, as is suggested by this report, we could reduce in particular the difficulties faced by migrant children at this early stage of their development more costly educational programs later in their educational experience might be avoided. 
I was also interested to read that part of the report of the Queensland Migrant Task Force which stated that consideration should be given to a review of the requirement that only Australian Government funded teachers should take classes for migrant children, that a regular staff teacher could take special classes for migrant children and that salary reimbursement should be made for the appropriate time. 1 would commend that suggestion to the Minister. Perhaps he will agree in the future to amend the legislation so that an appropriate salary reimbursement can be made. 
I have already said something about his somewhat amorphous statement that further expenditure could be expected. I draw his attention to the concern expressed by the Queensland Migrant Task Force about this aspect. It reported: 
The present child migrant education program has been operating for approximately  2  years and the State education authorities are anxious to learn whether the agreement will be renewed at the end of the 4-year term. 
Once again this is an endorsement of the previous Government's attitude and action in relation to this very important matter which has been carried on, I readily admit, by the present Minister. I am sure that the Queensland education authority and education authorities in the other States will be anxious to learn whether the migrant education program as detailed in this legislation will be carried on and renewed for another 4-year term following its expiry. 
The New South Wales Migrant Task Force Committee also investigated in some depth the problems of migrant education, particularly in relation to children. The Minister for Immigration in his second reading speech referred to one aspect of the problem; that is the urgent need to extend to the fullest possible extent the present system of teaching migrant children English as quickly as possible. Another problem found by the Migrant Task Force was that there is a general lack of knowledge amongst the normal teaching staff at schools of cultural backgrounds of migrants, their customs and attitudes. It was found that this had unfortunate results for many of the children. I certainly endorse that sentiment. I wonder whether the Minister has any plans in assessing this program whereby this very serious problem may be overcome. The problems of assimilating migrants from many countries throughout the world are too obvious to be detailed in the House at the moment. There is no doubt that on a general level Australia has benefited, and I hope will continue to benefit, from the influx of . migrants who have come here in substantial numbers since the end of the Second World War. 
Any of us who have had much to do with assisting migrants in regard to the problems of settling in and making their way in Australia and coping with the myriad problems which beset any persons when they come to a new country would support, I am sure, any move by this Government or any other government to make this assimilation easier. The benefits both to the individual and to the country are so great that the Opposition will fully support this Bill. Two aspects of the .situation concern me more than others. One aspect concerns young children, as I have already mentioned. I believe the Government should be looking more closely at young children of preschool education age. The other aspect concerns female migrants. I believe there are many female migrants in every major city in Australia, particularly wives of migrants who may be in the older age bracket, who have a great deal of difficulty, and it appears not a great deal of incentive, in learning English. If we could break down this isolation which lack of knowledge of the language of the country imposes I am quite certain that we would avoid many of the problems which now face us, particularly in the major cities. 
Unfortunately, in my view there has been a tendency in the cities to build up ethnic conclaves to what I regard as a disturbing extent. I believe the program should be continually assessed in relation to the education of migrants in the English language before and after they arrive in Australia. I think we could avoid many of the problems which face migrants to this country, particularly those who lack fluency in the English language if before they arrived in this country they had more adequate English language education courses. 
As I have said, the Opposition supports the Bill. Obviously we support it because we initiated it in the first place. We are pleased that the Minister has seen the advantages to be gained by the implementation of this scheme. In supporting it I personally hope that a continuing review is maintained so that the scheme can be further improved with the objective of assisting not only the migrants in Australia in a personal sense but also improving the whole welfare of this country. 
Before commencing my remarks on the Schools Commission Bill I want to make some comments about the speech made to the House this afternoon by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr- Mathews).  Unfortunately the honourable member is not in the chamber at the moment but he may be listening to the broadcast of this debate; otherwise he can read my remarks in Hansard. The honourable member sought to accuse the Opposition of undermining and emasculating the legislation by the amendment put forward. This charge was supported in a sense by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Let me assure both honourable members that the intention of the Opposition in bringing these amendments forward is not to undermine or emasculate the legislation. We seek to clarify what is in reality a fairly unclean Bill. We seek to ensure that some of the items mentioned by implication will not be mentioned by implication but be actually included in the wording of the Bill. 
The honourable member for Casey also accused the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other members of the Opposition of having no concern for underprivileged children. He mentioned, in particular, children belonging to the lower socio-economic groups, migrant children who have been disadvantaged because of the lack of knowledge of the English language, and handicapped children of various natures. Obviously that was less than fair because, as mentioned by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  the previous LiberalCountry Party Government did show a very real concern for these groups. I need only instance the migrant education program operated through the Department of Immigration and the provision of $16m for this purpose. This program has been recently updated by the present Government but the basis of the scheme has not been overthrown by it. I think that represents a realistic appraisal by the present Government of the worth of the legislation brought down by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I want to say to the honourable member for Casey that I believe most sincerely - and I believe his concern for underprivileged groups is very real - that concern for such groups is not his sole preserve or that of members of the Australian Labor Party in general. Despite the somewhat righteous enunciation of concern by the honourable member for Casey and his denigration of other honourable members, particularly those on this side of the House, he should bear that in mind. 
It is unfortunate that this Bill came forward so quickly because it deals with a subject of enormous concern, and not only immediately; it will have an effect on the future lives of hundreds of millions of Australians. The Liberal Party often has been accused - it has been so accused in this debate today - of acting on behalf of minority groups alone and of forgetting about the majority; in other words, the accusation is that it only seems to speak and exercise any support for independent schools. I would like to make it quite clear to the House and to the people of Australia that this is not the case at all. 
I want to quote briefly some aspects of basic Liberal Party philosophy in terms of education. It is our intention to provide all our children - I repeat, all our children - with the best quality of education and the greatest quantity of educational aids which the resources of the nation will allow. This is something we should bear in mind, particularly when all those accusations of lack of action over the previous 23 years are brought forward. The total resources of the Australian nation have grown tremendously over the last 23 years. Naturally enough, the resources of the nation which can be channelled towards education now are much greater than they were in, say, 1949. We do not think that people who wish to supplement the resources provided by the governments of Australia should be discouraged from doing so. We believe it is positively good that various avenues to education should be open to Australian children and therefore, of course, we support the independent school system as well as the government school system. 
We believe that the very existence of such variety must lead to diversity in teaching methods, to more opportunity for experiments and to differing emphasis on subjects and the content of subjects. We believe that one system of primary and secondary education, centralised as to administration, bound by departmental regulations, however sensible, and closely directed as to methods, however good, is monolithic and, were it the only system, could easily become moribund. That, in particular, is why we are so concerned to ensure the maintenance and the health of the independent school system. This is not to say for a moment that all new techniques, all fresh approaches, come from independent schools. Obviously they do not. It is to say that various systems, one State controlled and operated and the others operated and controlled by other bodies, tend to interact upon each other to the advantage of all, and that means to the advantage of all students, be they in government or independent schools. 
I think I have put forward very clearly the basis of the philosophy on education adhered to by the Liberal Party. It is not, as I have clearly shown, solely directed to independent schools. It is directed to all children, no matter what sort of school they go to. We believe, firmly in instilling in all families a concern for the needs of education and a desire to encourage their children to maximise their potential. This, of course, is one of the problems which beset the state school system. Unfortunately many of the parents of children in the state school system do not have sufficient concern for the needs of education for their children. We seek to encourage local educational research programs, to identify the major educational needs and problems and to ensure that Australian solutions are developed on soundly based analytical work. We wish to do this work in co-operation with the States and other authorities and, in particular, to encourage greater local contribution and interest in the day to day running of educational institutions and an avoidance of centralised control. 
I now wish to refer to the Bill. I do not agree with the basic concept of a Schools Commission, as enunciated in this Bill. As has been said earlier in this debate, the educational policy of the Australian Labor Party in its campaign before the last election was aimed squarely at the establishment of a Schools Commission. I do not oppose the establishment of a schools commission as such. But I support very strongly those amendments which I consider add to the possibilities of the Schools Commission being able to fulfil the function that I would like to see fulfilled. 
I have mentioned already in this debate the basic adherence by the Liberal Party to the concepts of freedom of choice in education. There is no mention of freedom of choice in this Bill. As I have already said I believe that we should do what we can to maintain an independent school system so that this very necessary aspect of the individual rights of people in Australia - that is freedom of choice in the education of their children - should be preserved. In relation to the functions of the Schools Commission we have mentioned specifically in our amendment Article  26  of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states very specifically that parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. It may be argued that this is implied in the Bill. We want it to be much more specific than that. We want this freedom of choice to be set out in the Bill. 
I am very concerned about the membership of the Commission and the Boards. I believe that it could quite easily become nonrepresentative simply because there is such an enormous amount of ministerial discretion. I do not say for a moment that the present Minister would allow a situation to arise which could be designated as unrepresentative. But the present Minister for Education may not be the Minister for very long. We have found already in this Labor Administration that some Ministers do not last all that long in their portfolios. It could be that another Minister could take over the portfolio and his administration of it may be very different indeed. So we are concerned to see that the representative nature of the membership of the commission is specified in the Bill. At paragraph 13.5 of the Karmel Committee's report it is stated: 
The Committee believes that the . . . membership . . . should be drawn from as wide a cross-section of the community as possible and should have regard to both age and sex. 
I agree with this, but we want to make it absolutely specific. I point out the stated objectives of the Australian Council of State School Organisations when it said: 
This organisation believes that the appointment of both an experienced teacher and an experienced parent as well as other persons broadly representative of the community is clearly appropriate. 
That body stated very clearly that it wishes to see a representative balance maintained in the membership of this Commission. That is why in our second proposed amendment to clause 4 we state: 
The Commission shall consist of a chairman, who shall be the only full time member, and two other members to be appointed directly by the Minister, seven members to be selected from a panel of ten to be nominated by the Australian Education Council, four members to be selected from a panel of seven to be nominated by the Independent School Authorities and one member from a panel of three members to be nominated by the Australian Committee on Research and Development in Education. 
In assessing this amendment- 
The independent school authorities are quite capable of assessing- 
No. It would involve the Australian Independent Schools Council plus the Catholic schools. I believe that the independent schools organisations which are closely related would be quite competent to nominate 4 members from a panel of seven from which the Minister for Education would have the right to choose. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister is not entitled to debate across the table no matter how informed his information. 
We will have the opportunity to debate this point during the Committee stage of the Bill. But I seek to point out once again that the Opposition is concerned to make sure that membership of the Commission is truly representative and truly guaranteed. 
We disagree with the establishment of regional boards. I contend that regional boards can do nothing that cannot be done by organisations already established and working very well. Our amendment guarantees decentralisation and representation. We admit that it takes away the ministerial control which this Bill directly gives to the Minister for Education. I think it is right that it should take away this ministerial control at the board level. Members of the Opposition and honourable members who have spoken on the Government side have been concerned to make sure that this Commission, as I have said, is truly representative and not capable of becoming a moribund centralised organisation. There is a danger of this occurring should the Bill go through in its present form. 
I am also very concerned about the vagueness of some sections of the Bill. Clause 13 (c) has been mentioned already. Perhaps the Minister will be good enough at a later stage to tell me exactly what it means. Perhaps he could also explain matters in connection with the grant by 'Australia' of financial assistance to the States. It sounds as though Australia is some benevolent overseas country which is going to give grants to the States. We feel that that clause should be amended. We state this in our proposed amendment to clause 13 where we state: 
Any terms and conditions that the Commission believes should be attached to grants to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b). 
We believe that this states much more specifically and simply what is intended to be covered by that clause in the Bill. 
As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has said, the House was in a somewhat unclear situation at the time we were discussing this matter last week. The Opposition is most anxious to have a division on the amendments moved to clause 13 by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Therefore the Opposition seeks the permission Of the Committee for the recommittal of the amendments. 
I seek clarification on a point. Sub-clause 2 of clause 16 reads: 
A Board shall consist of such persons, whether members of the Commission or not,  as  the Minister appoints. 
Can the Minister provide honourable members with some insight into his thinking in relation to exactly how many members of the Advisory Board he considers shall be appointed and also details of how many of these members shall constitute a quorum? 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 16. In pursuit of its functions the Commission shall consult with the State Education Authorities, Independent School Authorities, Parents and Teachers Organisations for both Government and independent schools.' 
The Opposition has moved this amendment for a number of reasons. Firstly, we believe that under our amendment to the composition of the Schools Commission the function of the Advisory Board or Boards is largely taken over by the membership of the Schools Commission. We feel that because of the representative nature of the Schools Commission, as envisaged in our amendment, it is unnecessary for the functions of the Commission to be duplicated by a State board. 
Secondly, we believe that the clause, as it is outlined in the Bill, does not guarantee any really representative nature. Honourable members will note that the amendment we have moved states that the Commission shall consult with the State Education Authorities, Independent School Authorities, Parents and Teachers Organisations for both Government and independent schools'. We believe that it is most important that parents and teachers organisations for both Government and independent schools should be consulted, and we believe that this is not guaranteed in the clause that has been put forward by the Government. We believe that the clause would give the necessary guarantee if our amendment to it were accepted. Additionally, we believe that the establishment of these Advisory Boards represents an unnecessary expense because already there are operating in  the 
States various advisory boards which can perform quite adequately the functions and objectives which are set out in this Bill. We believe that the establishment of these Boards would be an unnecessary duplication of functions. We could also save a great deal of money by not duplicating these functions. 
Sub-clause (4) of clause 16 reads: 
A Board shall have such functions as are from time to time determined by the Minister. 
My reading of that sub-clause would lead me to believe that a Minister at some time in the future could alter the functions of the Advisory Boards or could add substantially to the functions of the Boards in the States in a manner which would be unacceptable to a number of organisations in the States. We believe that this alteration could be made without reference to the Parliament, and for that reason we think that the provision in subclause (4) of clause 16 is unhelpful. It is for those reasons that we have moved this amendment to clause 16. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  said that 2 was basing my question on insinuations or making insinuations. I based my question on a statutory declaration made by a man named Dell, a former member of the Labor Party. It is a public statutory declaration which involves the  Deputy  Prime Minister. If he would like me to quote the section of the statutory declaration which involves him I will do so. 
It did involve the Deputy Prime Minister. I am very pleased to hear from the Deputy Prime Minister that he has co-operated with the investigation which, I take it, is a closed one. I have not seen any public statement by the Deputy Prime Minister about that- 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, by referring to a statement by the Minister for Services and Property yesterday that his Government would  make sure that another Watergate did not happen in Australia. I ask: Has any approach been made to the Attorney-General to grant a waiver of parliamentary privilege to allow the  Deputy  Prime Minister to give evidence to the investigation proceeding in Tasmania, alleging conspiracy to bring down a lawfully elected State Government by the offering of bribes - alleged to have come from major gambling interests - to the then  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Lyons?  Is it a fact that the signed statutory declarations allege that the present  Deputy  Premier and Attorney-General in Tasmania was the chief conspirator? Is it also a fact that the present Australian  Deputy  Prime Minister refused to divulge the source of funds paid to the Labor Party in Tasmania? 
 I think that the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has brought to the debate some very real points in that he points out very clearly that the differences between the 2 propositions before the House are not very substantial. I support the amendment as put forward by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  simply because I believe it presents a more practical approach to the problems facing this House. Firstly let me say that my main aim is to see action taken on this matter at the earliest opportunity. I am a comparatively new member of the House, and it absolutely surprised and staggered me to come to Canberra in 1969 and to find the conditions under which members of the Parliament and the staff supporting members of the Parliament had to work. I agree completely with the opinion of the Minister for Secondary Industry that the conditions under which people work in this place mitigate against effective decision making. I have spoken to a great number of members of Parliament and members of staffs who agree with me that the actual process of getting any work done while in the building is extremely difficult. The physical conditions under which one has to operate just make the performance of continued and sustained work very difficult. 
I was very surprised at the approach adopted by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It was an almost paranoiac approach to the question before the House. I do not think that we should allow his personal fears to obtrude themselves into a debate of this sort. I do not fear the bureaucrats quite as much as he obviously does. I am not convinced by the argument that we could not guarantee that Capital Hill would remain not built upon. I think there is every reason to suppose that legislation passed by this House could effectively ensure that Capital Hill would remain a grassy hill. I would support the Camp Hill site only if I had that guarantee. 
We can talk about aesthetics, but aesthetic appeal differs from person to person. I believe that the vista presented from Mount Ainslie, over the War Memorial, across the lake and up to Capital Hill would be destroyed if a building were erected on Capital Hill. I think the aesthetic appeal and the whole concept would be seriously damaged were any buildings - a parliament house or homes for bureaucrats - erected on Capital Hill. I am a supporter of the Camp Hill site. I am not convinced by those who  argue for  the preservation of the present Parliament House building. After all it is, and was conceded as being, a temporary parliament house. I have not heard any real reasons so far advanced why this building should not be demolished. A great deal of history has taken place within its walls but this applies to other buildings in Australia. I guess the most historic building in terms of the Australian national Parliament is that which housed the original national Parliament in Melbourne. 
The argument for the retention of this Parliament House is not as strong as some would suggest. If it were to be preserved in my view it could be preserved only if it were made an integral part of the new complex. If it were preserved as a separate entity I think it would destroy the balance of the concept of the development of Canberra as envisaged by the architect Burley Griffin. If it is to be separated from the new and permanent parliament house by an appreciable distance, it should be demolished but if - I have no doubt that this could be accomplished - it can be incorporated into the design for the new and permanent parliament house, and this could take place only if the site chosen were Camp Hill, I would be inclined to agree with that incorporation. 
I know that many honourable members wish to speak on this subject but, as the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and various other people have pointed out, the object of this debate is to initiate action. We must all ensure that this happens. It is all very well for the new Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  to say that he has occupied that portfolio for only a little while. He was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for only a little while, so his permanency record has not been proven. I do not think that we can rely on him for action. I think we must all gather our resolves together to ensure that this very real and vital question is not dropped. Admittedly no votes are involved in this issue, but I believe that this nation would be better served if the conditions under which the national Parliament operated were improved. The conditions under which the national Parliament operates - I am not speaking just for members of Parliament but also for the staff and all those associated with the working of the Parliament - are archaic. Any delay will only exacerbate the problem. It will not only do that but, on a more practical note, it will also increase costs enormously. Work must get under way immediately. I commend those members who have moved this motion. I personally support the Camp Hill site and support the practical approach of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I do not think he should be castigated simply because of the paranoia exhibited by his fellow members of Cabinet. 
I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who travelled as I did, to China during the recess as a member of the first parliamentary delegation from Australia to visit that country. I commend him, and I commended him at at the time, for his courage in bringing up at a high level meeting his abhorrence of atmospheric nuclear testing, something which had not been done quite as forcibly by the Australian Government of which he is a supporter. He mentioned though - I think I quote him almost exactly - that the only way in which we shall ensure world peace is to bring about nuclear disarmament. I think that is a somewhat misty-eyed view of the problem of bringing about world peace. Whilst no nuclear weapons have been used in warfare since approximately 1945 a series of wars has been continuing throughout the world.. Of course we have the very unfortunate spectacle of one continuing at the moment. Whilst we would all support a general nuclear disarmament, let us not kid ourselves for one moment that just by bringing about nuclear disarmament we will bring about world peace. 
I was very interested in all that was shown to the parliamentary delegation when we travelled to China and in the attitude exhibited by the Australian Government towards the Chinese Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during his journey to India recently said that really there has been no change in Australia's foreign policy since the change of government. He said that everything has continued on in much the same way as before; that things have just happened a little faster. I would like to refute that suggestion entirely. There has been a marked change in Australia's foreign policy since 2 December last. We only have to look at the situation that confronts us and the attitude of the rulers of countries, particularly the countries of South East Asia, towards the Australian Government at the present time to test the validity of my statement. I have been almost nauseated at times by the lap dog subservience shown by some of the present Government Ministers towards everything that happens in China. I do not believe that the Chinese want this lap dog subservience. In fact on a number of occasions during our visit to China we were pulled up quickly when some of the compliments became a little flowery. I distinctly remember  Mr Li  Hsien-nien putting it very succinctly when he said: 'Cut it off. Let us get serious about this. We know that we have not accomplished all the things that you appear to believe we have.' I do not believe any country wants fulsome flattery. What countries want is a realistic understanding of the relationships operating between countries. This applies also to China. 
I was most interested to see the real accomplishments and achievements which the British have managed to bring about, particularly in trade, in their relationships with the People's Republic of China. The British go about matters unobstrusively, yet perhaps they can claim to be the most successful nation in selling their products to the Chinese! They do it without much fanfare. They do it through realistic negotiations. It is ridiculous for people like  Dr Cairns  to say that China will become the third leg of our world trading stool, America and Japan being the other 2 legs. Let us be honest in our appreciation of the trading capacities of 
China. Despite its enormous population the world trading pattern of China is simply not in the same class as those of a great many other trading nations, so let us not go overboard in our efforts to ingratiate ourselves with this nation. The Chinese do not want it nor, I am sure, do the majority of Australians. 
Again I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Kingston when he pointed out the dangers aroused by what is a very real confrontation, namely, the SinoSoviet confrontation. As he said, this is of wide interest to and has wide ramifications for many countries other than simply China and Russia. Obviously the situations obtaining in all South-East Asian states, in the Indian Ocean area and on the Indian sub-continent are affected greatly by the relationships existing between 'Russia and China and between all the other great powers operating in the area. However, let us consider particularly the situation brought about by the Sino-Soviet dispute. The cultural revolution had an enormous effect within China in a number of areas. In my view it disrupted the economic advances which were being made prior to its onset. Since the finish of the cultural revolution Chinese leadership has attempted to get things back on an even keel. 
The Chinese want to see a reasonably stable situation around them. They do not want to see any further increase in the influence of Russia in these areas of South-East Asia immediately surrounding or abutting the Chinese nation. For this reason the Chinese are in somewhat of a cleft stick simply because the Government of North Vietnam has shown such marked and open expansionary tendencies. I believe that at present North Vietnam is the most expansionary power in South-East Asia. There is no doubt that its troops are operating in Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam and the situation is ripe for a country like North Vietnam to play 2 suppliers off one against the other. It can say to China: 'If you do not supply us with the materials we want we can always get them from the Russians'. It can say exactly the same to the Russians. I believe this is what North Vietnam did for a number of years. As a result of this a continuing restive situation obtains in South-East Asia. 
We should look closely at what could happen in that area, particularly if one or the other of the suppliers expands its influence markedly in the short term. I believe that if either Russia or China markedly expands its influence, the other will react. It is in China's long term interests for the situation to be stabilised until it can sort out its problems of economic development. The other problem China has, and which it is attempting to solve, is that of succession. These 2 problems bring about a situation in which, for the time being, China would like to see a little more stability in the South-East Asian area. On the other hand, the Russians see the present time as a good period in which to expand their influence. I believe they are doing it at the moment. 
In this situation, what is the Australian1 Government doing? In returning from China I passed through Laos, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. In all those countries without exception their leaders, in talking to me, expressed uncertainty and disquiet about the relations of Australia and about possible future Australian actions in relation to their countries. A very senior Laotian said to me, I cannot understand the Prime Minister of Australia. He seems intent upon demolishing the defences of the free world.' This may not sound important to a person living in the security of Australia but it is very real to the person living in a country which faces takeover by a communist-dominated Pathet Lao movement. 
The same situation applies in Vietnam. The question asked there is: Why cannot Australia, after supporting the Vietnamese for so long, continue to support them in their struggle for independence? The Indonesians are confused and despite the Prime Minister's protestations have made this abundantly clear. They wish to see a continuation of the obvious friendship and assistance granted by previous Australian governments. They are unsure where the present Australian Government is leading Australia in terms of foreign policy. These matters are all of great interest to the Australian nation. I firmly believe that the Government, rather than continuing the foreign policy initiatives of the previous Government, has in many cases completely reversed them and, as a result, has upset and disturbed in great detail those of our allies with whom we must maintain the strongest and most cordial relationships. 
I want briefly to allude tonight to a matter which is of great interest and concern to an enormous number of Australians. I refer to the frantic search by this Government for what it chooses to call a national anthem. I have before me a Press release from the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  dated 24 October 1973 in which he outlines national anthem poll plans. The report goes on to say: 
The Bureau of Census and Statistics, at the request of the Government, is planning a nation-wide opinion poll to establish preference for a new National Anthem. 
The poll will be conducted in February next year and people will be asked to make their choice from the three songs already selected by the National Anthem Committee. These are: Advance Australia Fair, Song of Australia, and Waltzing Matilda. 
I believe that the Australian Government is perpetrating a gigantic hoax and confidence trick on the Australian people by not including in that poll the present national anthem 'God Save the Queen'. If the poll is conducted as outlined in this Press release the Government will then say that one of those 3 songs is obviously the preference of the Australian people when this could easily not be the case. I believe that an enormous number of people would still prefer 'God Save the Queen' to be Australia's national anthem. It is absolutely vital that they be given the chance to express this view when the poll is conducted. Not to do so is a shabby trick. We are used to this Government pulling shabby tricks but this is something which will have a great number of ramifications for Australian people. 
The poll will not reflect the true attitude of the people of Australia and I appeal to the Government to give them a real chance to express their views on what should be their national anthem. This is something which transcends party lines. It is something which people feel personally about and not to give them a full choice in relation to the song which they believe should represent them as the national anthem is selling short the people of this country. 
I repeat that it is a shabby trick not to include in the poll the present national anthem because if it is not included the results of the poll cannot truly be said accurately to reflect the will of the Australian people. I do not wish to speak for long on this matter but I do believe that I speak for an enormous number of Australians when I say that if this Government wants truly to find out the will of the Australian people in relation to this important matter - it is an emotional matter and which impinges upon the feelings of all Australians - it should in all conscience give to them the opportunity of a full choice of a national anthem. In February next year when this matter comes before the Australian population the choice should include the present national anthem 'God Save the Queen'. The people of Australia can then express a full and clear choice. 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. Ill shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House Australia's national anthem should not be changed without a total vote of the Australian people on suggested alternative anthems, including 'God Save the Queen'. 
At the outset I would like to thank the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for giving me the opportunity of saying a few things before the closure of this debate. I am rather reluctant to say this, but he must feel very sad in presiding over the demise  of  what was once a very proud area of ministerial responsibility. There is probably only one area or group which has a lower popularity than the Australian Labor Party in the eyes of the general public and that is the Post Office. Unfortunately the Post Office is seen very realistically as being unreliable, expensive and subject to crippling industrial disputes. This is reflected very clearly bv the growth of alternative services, particularly courier services, simply because the Post Office can no longer be relied upon to do the job it was set up to do, and that is  to  get the mail through. 
I want to speak very briefly about an aspect of the work of the Post Office which has concerned me greatly for a number of years; that is the provision by the Australian Post Office of a domestic communication satellite system. I have noticed that the Minister has spoken about this communication satellite system. I want to draw his attention to the fact that I mentioned this matter first on 17 May of last year. Since that time domestic communication satellite systems have been put into operation in such countries as Canada. The previous Postmaster-General pointed out to me that one of the most technologically advanced nations in the world, the United States of America, did not have a communication satellite system. Since I raised this matter in the House early last  year  the United States has moved very rapidly towards acquiring a domestic communication satellite system. 
Professor Downing recently spoke of having a communication satellite system in operation which will be able to beam directly into the houses of outback properties. I think that Professor Downing is probably excessive in his interpretation of the possibilities of the technology available to Australia at this stage. I seek once again - for the third time in 2 years - to obtain the assurance of a PostmasterGeneral that he will place before the Parliament and the people of Australia just as soon as he possibly can a complete analysis of the alternatives available to the Australian Government and the Post Office and a cost analysis of a. communication satellite system. I believe, for reasons that I have mentioned on previous occasions, that Australia would be greatly advantaged - not only those remote areas of Australia but also the communications system as a whole - if the existing communications sys tems were enhanced, upgraded and added to by Australia seeking actively and as quickly as possible to acquire its own communications satellite system. I again thank the Minister for giving me the opportunity to bring this matter once more to his attention. I seek from him an assurance that we will see as soon as possible a. cost benefit analysis and a statement on the state of the art in relation to this proposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth, or any person on behalf of the Commonwealth, paid any sum of money to  Mr K.  Milte since 2 December 1972. 
If so, on what date or dates did the Commonwealth, or such person, pay money to  Mr Milte  and what sum was paid to him on each of the dates. 
Has the Commonwealth, or any person on behalf of the Commonwealth, agreed to pay any sum of money to  Mr Milte  at any time in the future; if so, at what time. 
If money is to be paid in the future, what sum or sums has the Commonwealth, or such person, agreed to pay  Mr Milte,  and on what terms. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Was a  Mr K.  Milte present at the regional office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra on the night of 15-16 March 1973. 
If so, in what capacity was  Mr Milte  present at the office. 
What actions did  Mr Milte  perform while at the office. 
Was  Mr Milte  present at the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Melbourne on 16 March 1973. 
If so, in what capacity was  Mr Milte  present. 
What actions did  Mr Milte  perform while at the headquarters. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has a  Mr K-  Milte been retained by the Commonwealth or by any Commonwealth Department or Agency. 
If so, in what capacity has  Mr Milte  been retained. 
What are the terms of  Mr Milte's  retainer. 
What functions are to be performed by  Mr Milte  pursuant to the terms of his retainer. 
I rise to speak on this Bill because it is symptomatic of the type of legislation which this Government is bringing forward and, as has been mentioned by several other speakers on this side of the House, it seeks to mislead the Australian people. It seeks to mislead them by the title which reads: 
A Bill for an Act To facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow Electors in Territories, as well as Electors in the States, to vote at Referendums on Proposed Laws to alter the Constitution. 
Honourable members on both sides of this House would, I am sure, agree that the Constitution is probably one of the most fundamental documents governing our lives. To seek to alter that Constitution in a manner which is not clearcut is, in my view, a clear attempt to deceive the people because when this matter comes before the Australian people for a vote there is nothing in the title of the Bill which refers to the 2 ways in which the Constitution is proposed to be altered. I think that is a simple attempt to deceive. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has cogently put forward arguments in relation to both concepts which are embodied in this legislation. The first relates to providing the residents of the Territories with an opportunity to vote in referenda. I believe that nobody would argue that the people in the Territories should not have that right. They are citizens of Australia and they should have the right to vote in referenda. But in relation to this very contentious question of changing the Constitution in respect of a majority of the States, clause 2 (c) seeks to omit the words 'in a majority of the States' and to substitute the words 'in not less than one-half of the States'. To me this is a retrograde step because I believe, as I have said previously, that proposed alterations to the Constitution should be made very clear so that the people of Australia have clear in their minds the questions which are before them. They will not have clear in their minds these questions before them because of the way in which this referendum will be presented to them. 
There is another aspect which I believe should be investigated. It has always been a tenet of good chairmanship and good framing of motions that any motion should have only one central idea in it. If a motion has 2 central ideas and it cannot be amended, then the motion is likely to fail. This is a motion which contains two separate definite parts. We cannot, as this proposal is presently before us, vote for one and not the other. We have to vote either f of both or for neither. I am quite certain that a majority of the Australian people would be fully in agreement with the idea that all Australian electors should have the opportunity of voting in referenda. But I am less convinced that all Australians would seek to alter the constitutional requirement in relation to a majority of the States. The people of Australia are presented with a very difficult question. They have to choose between their desire to give all electors the opportunity to vote in referenda, and their opposition perhaps to the alteration of the requirement in relation to a majority of the States. I suggest that when they are called upon to make this decision, which they should not be called upon to make, then the possibility of the well-fancied proposal contained in the Bill being passed is seriously jeopardised. 
Let us look at some of the arguments contained in the second reading speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He admits in the first paragraph of that speech that 2 changes are proposed to section 128. Having admitted that, in my view there is no justification for concealing it in the title of the Bill. The Prime Minister continues: 
The real difficulty is that the Australian Constitution has proved in practice to be extremely difficult to amend. 
The Prime Minister says that as though it is a bad thing. Would anybody seriously suggest that a constitution should be easy to amend? I remind honourable members that the purpose of a constitution is defined as: 
A system or body of fundamental principles according to which a nation, State or body politic is constituted and governed. 
Would anybody seriously suggest, if that definition is accepted, teat a constitution should be easy to amend? Of course one would not. The Prime Minister, in his second reading speech, stated further: 
The emphasis, in this day and age, should be on flexibility and on what a majority of the electors want, wherever they live, while retaining a proper position for the States. 
In his speech today, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said that it did not matter where electors lived. I contest that point. I would argue that the geographic location of electors has a large effect on the way in which they look at propositions put to them. One would not imagine for a moment that the people of Western Australia at this time would regard centralised control from Canberra in the same light as would many people from New South Wales. The honourable member for Moreton has already given to the House a very real story of what occurred earlier this year. 
I do not think that we should blind ourselves to the practicalities of the situation. The simple fact is that the geographic location of people determines in many instances their approach to and their opinions on fundamental points. I think that where people live has a real influence on the way in which they consider various matters. For example, the people of Tasmania, who are affectionately referred to as Taswegians, have a very real appreciation of their geographic location. I think that we should understand this fact. The present Australian Constitution acknowledges this appreciation. It did so at the time when it was framed. The Prime Minister states further: 
We are one nation, we are one people- 
That is quite right. We are. He continues: 
. and on national issues it is desirable that the will of the nation should be determined more by the total vote of all the people entitled to vote than by State borders. 
Why not go all the way? If that is what the Prime Minister really believes, why does he not move to abolish entirely this provision in relation to the States? If he believes that, why not cut it out altogether? What he is seeking to do is to achieve by stealth what his ultimate ambition is, that is, to do away with the States as entities. 
We have heard a good deal of talk from Government supporters about the fact that the Constitution presently imposes a requirement that two-thirds of the States must pass a referendum before it can become law. The Prime Minister states: 
But the two-thirds majority is unreasonably high and, given that we have not gone beyond the original 6 States- 
I agree with the proposition that the framers of the Constitution envisaged more States and therefore they instituted this requirement in relation to a majority of States agreeing at a referendum in the confident expectation that there would be more States created in the future. The honourable member for Moreton has postulated - I believe he is prepared to wager money on it - that more States will not be created. 
Perhaps not in our time. I would not go that far. I do not say that more States will be created. If we have an increasing trend towards regionalisation as envisaged by members of the Government, there is no real guarantee that these proposed regions, should they come into effect, will not assume a more definite shape and in fact become States or Statelike in the ultimate. So, I do not think that we can say as the Government does that because the requirement is twothirds this is a bad thing. It is two-thirds of present number of States because there are 6 States. If there were seven or more States, the fraction would correspondingly be reduced. The Prime Minister states further: 
As a matter of historical interest social service proposals of a wide-ranging nature which were submitted at the same time obtained a majority in all States and an overall majority. 
The Prime Minister was referring to the occasion of the referendum when certain questions were passed and others were rejected. This goes to prove, I believe, that when the Australian people really wish to see an alteration to the Constitution they have no trouble in voting to achieve that end. We saw an example of this in 1967 when 2 questions, one dealing with Aborigines and the other with the breaking of the nexus between the numbers in the House of Representatives and in the Senate, were posed at a referendum. The vote was clear cut. The Australian people were in favour of the question relating to Aborigines but were against breaking the nexus between the 2 Houses of this Parliament. That seems to me to be a very good example of how, if the Government was really sincere in its wish to have these alterations made to the Constitution, it could bring its aim about, that is, by separating the questions contained in this Bill. Not only would this in my mind be a more reasonable way, a more honest way, a more direct way and a more clear cut way of presenting the alternative propositions to the Australian people but also it would probably have the very real effect of giving the Australian people the opportunity of voting in favour of the measure proposing a constitutional change to give electors in the Territories the opportunity to vote at a referendum and also to express their opinion on the second proposal contained in this Bill. To present both questions together in my view is misleading. It is slightly dishonest - perhaps it is more than slightly dishonest - and also it runs the very real risk of preventing a wished-for amendment to the Constitution being agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the statement as originally prepared for the Minister and presented to this House on 20 November 1973 contained 16 pages? Is it also a fact that the report as presented to the Parliament contained only 15 pages and the information on the deleted page was not included in the report to the Parliament? Did this information list the large number of resignations of military personnel of senior commissioned rank? Will he now make this information available? 
 I should like to join with those who are paying tribute to the late John Dedman. I do it as a fellow councillor of the Australian National University. As the Honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  has said John Dedman had memorials both in materials and in people, and the Australian National University, I think, can be described as one of Australia's great institutions these days. John Dedman's influence not only on its formation but also on the subsequent policy pursued by it has been manifest. As a councillor, John Dedman's interest, enthusiasm and above all his dedication have been of example to us all. I should like to take this opportunity of paying my tribute to him and passing on my sympathy to his family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I was very interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  particularly his statement that yet another promise is being kept. If my memory serves me correctly the promise was made in the policy speech of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in particular, and in the policy document of the Australian Labor Party that the Australian Labor Party would, if it came to power, take over financial responsibility for tertiary education and that that was followed by a very significant phrase, namely, that the money thus released will be available for primary and secondary education undertaken by the States. That was included, as I remember, in the policy speech. I was rather interested in the passages in the second reading speeches of the respective Ministers on the various Bills which we are debating in a cognate manner tonight in which it is stated that the 'Premiers of the States have agreed with the program as set out in the Bills. 
I come back to the point that the money thus released will be available for primary and secondary education undertaken by the States and also to the point that the Premiers have agreed with the program. If we look at what actually happened we will find that the Premiers agreed with it at the Premiers Conference in June of this year for the simple reason that the Commonwealth said it was going to take over the financial responsibility for tertiary education whether the States liked it or not. What in fact happened after that Premiers Conference? Let us have a look at one of these much vaunted promises of the Prime Minister. What did happen to the moneys thus released after the Federal Government took over the financing of tertiary education? The general reimbursement grants in fact have been reduced by the amounts that the Federal Government has put into financing tertiary education throughout Australia. In fact my own State of New South Wales will lose $36m in the 6-month period ending December of this year. So let us have no pious statements about keeping promises. In fact yet another promise has been debased. 
I agree with the views set forth by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in his speech and I go along with his statement that the Opposition will neither oppose nor seek to amend the Bills. I have read with interest some of the movements in policy enunciated in these Bills. In relation to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 2), I notice that there is reference in the second paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  to 3 new projects being included in the Second Schedule to the Act. Two of those proposals were approved by the previous Minister for Education and Science. Let us at least be fair minded and even-handed in our appreciation of what is being done in these Bills and admit that a great proportion of the advances as set out in these Bills was initiated and in some cases approved by the previous Government. I notice that the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) had its origin in the recommendations of the report on teacher education prepared by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. When did the inquiry of that Commission commence? It commenced in October 1972, in the time of the previous Government. So again, let us acknowledge that part that the previous Government played in funding education at a much higher level than previously had been the case. I pay tribute to the present Government for carrying on the work initiated by the previous Government. 
I was interested also to see in the second reading speech on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) the statement that the Government is tremendously concerned about the high quality and professional skill of teachers. The Government says that this is 'crucial to the process of education'. I would agree absolutely and wholeheartedly with this view because I think that education is not merely a matter of money; it is much more than that. The professional qualifications and the interest shown by the various teachers have an enormous part to play in the total education of the child. I am sure we can all remember during our own educational period those teachers who impressed us more than others. It is not only the sheer technical skill of but also the degree of interest expressed by such teachers which makes the total educative process so much more realistic and meaningful for a great number of students. &lt;I notice that the Government accepted in their entirety the recommendations of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education which was set up by the previous Government, including the recommendations for special grants for the particularly worthy purposes of accelerating the development of teachers college libraries, of fostering research into aspects of teacher education'. I should like to emphasise the need for more research in education. This has been a .consistent theme of mine during my time in this House. I believe that nobody has the complete answer to what is the best method of educating both children and adults. Incidentally, this is why I am such a great advocate of freedom of choice being offered to people, not only parents in the education of their children but also to adults when they have the opportunity of carrying on their education later in life. Certainly I think that we should be emphasising research much more than we have done in the past. I am glad to see that the present Government is adopting the recommendations of the Commission and has agreed to foster research into aspects of teacher education. 
I am particularly pleased also to see emphasis being put on the preparation of teachers for handicapped children. I would agree with those people who point out that handicapped children, whatever the nature of the handicap, should have special treatment, special resources and a special place in the thinking of governments, whether they be at the federal or State level. Again, I commend the Government for its emphasis on the education of handicapped children - an emphasis which I point out once again was contained in the recommendations of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education set up by the previous Government. I notice also that the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) provides for an integration of teachers colleges completely within the framework of the advanced education legislation. Again, I have been a consistent advocate of the idea that ^teachers colleges should be removed from the control of State education departments. I see this as a form of decentralisation, as a breakdown in the excessive bureaucratisation of education and as placing upon the adminstrators of teachers colleges a greater responsibility because they will be independent organisations more so than at any stage in the past and therefore have not only the right but also the responsibility to live up to the independence with which they are to be provided. 
I notice in the second reading speech on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) that the Government has allocated $100,000 to increase the number of preschool teachers in training and that this grant will meet the cost of the additional trainees from January to July 1973. I wonder if the July 1973 date is correct because, of course, the Government has a continuing responsibility to meet the cost of these additional teachers and here we are in late November 1973. If the grant applied until only July 1973, what has happened about meeting the cost of training pre-school teachers after that time? 
The States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 4) in many ways is perhaps a more significant Bill than the others because in the initial stages of his second reading speech the Acting Minister for Education, the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  set out the proposition that the Australian Government will assume full financial responsibility for advanced education from 1 January 1974. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has already pointed to the fact that some difficulties could arise because of the assumption of this responsibility by the Federal Government. We all know that the various States have the responsibility for overseeing the various aspects of tertiary education including, of course, the technical colleges and the universities. I believe that these institutions will in future years find difficulties arising from the fact that, in fact, they will be serving 2 masters. They will have their financial requirements met by the Federal Government and yet they will be set up and legislated for by State governments. How these difficulties will be overcome remains to be seen but I predict that difficulties will arise because of this dichotomy. 
Again, in his second reading speech, the Acting Minister for Education made a point of saying: 
The Premiers of all the States have agreed to the major policy change which is incorporated in this Bill. 
Once again, I point out that this was brought about literally with a financial gun at their heads. The fifth Bill which the House is now considering is the Commission on Advanced Education Bill. It is proposed to add to the number of commissioners by appointing a  deputy chairman  as an additional full-time member. In this case I merely point to the figures supplied in the second reading speech. The number of colleges has increased from 48 in 1971 to 83 in 1973. Again, I think that Government supporters should pay at least some tribute to the former governments not only because of their promulgation of the idea of colleges of advanced education but also because the program was put into effect with such success. The fact that the number of colleges has risen from 48 in 1971 to 83 in 1973 is a measure of that success. As the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the student enrolments in the colleges have increased enormously from 45,000 in 1971 to 95,000 in 1973. The fact that as a greater proportion of Australians has the opportunity of receiving at least some tertiary education at a high level is splendid and something that i am sure we would all applaud. Naturally enough, the demands placed upon the body overseeing this development have become excessive as I am sure we will find that the demands placed upon a number of the commissions set up by this Government will become excessive and we will have a succession of Bills, such as this Commission on Advanced Education Bill 1973, coming before the House as the Government appoints more and more people to these commissions. This situation will arise unless the Government devises some method of reducing the centralisation of the administration of these organisations. 
I support the Bills before the House. I think that they embody some very worthwhile progressive changes. I would seek from Government supporters opposite some acknowledgement that at least many of these changes were not only envisaged but also were put into train by previous governments and I hope, as other honourable members have said, that with the passing of these Bills more and more Australians of a range of years will have the opportunity of taking advantage of superior avenues of tertiary education because in this way, when they do have this opportunity, not only will they benefit but also the whole nation will be enhanced 
1 was very interested to hear the concluding remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb).  He stated quite unequivocally that this Bill was the be all and end all of the way to ensure equal education opportunities for all. I do not think that it is given to any honourable member in this place to put forward such a proposition and honestly expect everybody to agree with it. Certainly there is much disagreement with many of the aspects of the Karmel Committee report, excellent though many facets of that report were. I am surprised that the honourable member for La Trobe should have taken that unequivocal stand, although I can understand that he was a little carried away in his eloquence on this occasion. 
I was interested also in remarks made by previous speakers on the Government side. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  revealed in a Freudian slip the thinking behind the present Government's attitude towards funding education when he said that the State governments did not look after disadvantaged schools because they were not capable of doing this as their educational expenditure was largely directed to the furthering of political ends. I cannot speak for other States, but I can speak for my own State of New South Wales when I say that I refute absolutely and completely the suggestion made by the honourable member for Casey. I know of no evidence - if the honourable member for Casey knows of any I should like him to bring it forward - to indicate that the New South Wales Government has spent money on education for political purposes. I once again completely refute that suggestion. 
The honourable member for La Trobe, who has now left the chamber, revealed some aspects of the Government's attitude towards any opposition, by us or others, to suggestions that it makes when he said: 'If you do not pass this Bill and if you persist with what I regard as trivial amendments, you will have to face the consequences'. Honourable members will agree that this is an example of the old blackmail statement: 'If you do not agree with us, you are wrong'. I again refute that statement. I would hope that members on both sides of the House would honestly and diligently consider any amendments put forward by any honourable member or any political Party in this Parliament to ascertain whether any amendment of this legislation, which covers the expenditure of a tremendous amount of public money, should be accepted because it would upgrade the standard of the Bill. I would hope that all honourable members, no matter on which side of the House they sit, would take that attitude. 
I, in common with other honourable members, welcome the increase in expenditure on education which is provided for in this Bill. Some honourable members on the Government side believe, and would like the Australian population to believe, that the improvements in education are all this Government's doing in terms of concern for education and of investigation of the needs of education. The Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in his second reading speech, pointed to the fact that this greater concern for education commenced really when a survey was undertaken in 1969. Once again I point out, for the record, that this was in the time of the previous Government. So, whilst I think that the present Government is to be commended for many of the aspects of this Bill, honourable members should not lose sight of the fact that the previous Government was also concerned with the needs of education. If one examines the increasing expenditure on education undertaken by succeeding Liberal-Country Party coalition governments at the Federal level from 1962 onwards, one can see that not only the present Government but also previous governments reflected an increasing concern by the Australian people in the upgrading of education, no matter where in Australia it was taking place. 
I should like to speak on many aspects of the current Bill. I am particularly pleased to see the emphasis which has been placed upon educational provisions for disadvantaged children. I point out that we should not look at the contents of this Bill as providing all the answers for disadvantaged children, regardless of what type of disadvantage is encompassed. There have always been disadvantaged children. There are disadvantaged children at the moment and there always will be disadvantaged children. Whilst this Bill does go a long way in helping in many areas of disadvantage, let us not for a moment imagine that all the cases of disadvantage will be covered by the provisions in this Bill. A continuing effort must be made by the Government to see that the needs of these children who for whatever reason are disadvantaged, are assessed and that provision is made to help overcome the disadvantages they face. 
I have noticed that tremendous emphasis has been placed on the amount of expenditure contained in this Bill, as though expenditure alone was the panacea and that if one allocates hundreds of millions of dollars all the problems will be overcome. I suggest that the sheer amount of expenditure could bring problems itself. I find it very easy to imagine in the present economic circumstances in Australia, when we have difficulties in obtaining builders and building materials, just to name 2 areas, the enormous difficulties which Education Departments and school systems will have in expending the money allocated to them. In fact, this factor could have a serious effect in driving up costs, particularly building costs, in the next couple of years as schools and school systems compete with each other for scarce resources, be those resources men or materials. 
I add the warning that we cannot expect sheer money alone to overcome the problems which at present exist in the Australian educational systems and which will continue to exist as far as one can foresee the future. I was pleased to note in the general building grants that provision is made for government and nongovernment schools to upgrade existing school buildings. The Acting Minister for Education, in his second reading speech, stated: 
The grants for non-government schools may also be used for replacing and upgrading of buildings, but it is also intended that up to SO per cent of the total for these schools may be applied to new pupil places. 
The legislation introduced by the previous Government, as I remember it, provided that up to 70 per cent of the total grants could be applied for new pupil places. I wonder what is the reasoning behind the Government's reduction of that figure from 70 per cent to 50 per cent. 
In relation to the provision of school libraries I agree almost completely with the stress and emphasis placed on the need for libraries as contained in the Karmel Committee report and also in the second reading speech of the Acting Minister. I believe that both primary and secondary school libraries should be upgraded as quickly and as effectively as possible. I am pleased to see that an allocation was made in this area. I turn again to the second reading speech of the Minister in which he stated:  the individual non-government school to receive a grant will be expected, in the light of its financial circumstances, to make a realistic contribution to the total cost of the new facilities. 
I should like the Acting Minister for Education to elucidate who will assess the financial circumstances of the individual non-government schools and determine what is a realistic contribution. 
Other honourable members who have spoken before me in this debate referred to teacher development and the need for the maximum effort possible to be expended to upgrade the standard of teaching. Certainly it is the teacher, probably more than any other factor who determines the outcome of the pupil's work in any educational institution. It is the teacher who can inspire the pupil. It is the teacher who can depress the pupil. We should be aiming at the appointment of most highly trained teachers. We also should be aiming at attracting the proper kind of people to the teaching profession. It is fairly difficult to define who are the proper kind of people, but I am sure that anyone who has been associated with the field of education knows the born teacher type. We must aim at providing conditions within the schools and within the school systems which will attract those people who have a distinct flair for teaching. There are individuals in the community who do have a flair for teaching. It is not simply a question of remuneration. It is not simply a question of conditions. It is a question of the whole approach to the teaching profession. I would like to see developed within all school systems an attitude to and appreciation of the teaching profession as one of the most highly commendable professions to which anybody can aspire. 
I join with those honourable members who have praised the allocation of moneys for special projects of an innovatory nature. That is extremely good. Again it accentuates the Opposition's desire to maintain an effective and viable independent school system. Whilst we must and do have special projects of an innovatory nature being carried out within the government school system. I think most people will agree with me when I say that the independent school system provides an atmosphere and an opportunity for experimental educational innovations and the involvement in them to a much greater extent of individual parents. I think that is yet another reason why we should resist as strongly as we can any move which seeks to destroy the independent school system. If the independent school system is destroyed not only will schools of great history and tradition go out of business but also very necessary innovation and experimentation will be severely curtailed. I join with the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in his query about disadvantaged schools and special schools. Why are there no independent disadvantaged schools? I am quite certain that if one sought diligently to do so one could find examples of independent disadvantaged schools. I should like an assurance from the Acting Minister for Education, who is at the table, that if examples of independent disadvantaged schools are brought up their situations will be treated with the utmost sympathy. 
The next section of the Bill deals with special education. The honourable member for Chisholm has dealt with this matter at some length. Again I point to the fact that there is no provision for capital grants to non-government special schools. I think that is a deficiency within the Bill. I hope that the Acting Minister and his advisers will look closely at what I regard to be a deficiency in this respect. I am sure that we have all been impressed with the activities of the SPELD organisation. I certainly have been. I have assisted as much as I can the development and promulgation of SPELD activities. We all know of children who come within the definition of disadvantaged children, if one can use that phrase, because they have learning difficulties although those learning difficulties are not perhaps serious enough to warrant their being classed as disadvantaged children. I cannot see within the Bill - at least it has not been made plain within the Bill - how SPELD type children, if I can use that phrase, are to be assisted by the provisions of the Bill. Of particular worry to me in this area are the teachers. I regard them as being of the utmost importance. I am very concerned about ensuring that teachers at schools not classified as special schools or disadvantaged schools have an opportunity for in-service training so that they are equipped to detect and assist children who need remedial treatment just as soon as those children appear within the school system. 
I move on to that section of the Acting Minister's second reading speech which deals with recurrent grants. There has been a great deal of controversy surrounding the recurrent grants. In this respect I cannot agree at all with the thesis of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  that per capita grants can never lead to equality of opportunity. I draw the attention of the House to the table on projected expenditure that was included in the second reading speech of the Acting Minister. In his second reading speech the Acting Minister said: 
For the purpose of comparison let us assume that the cost of operating the government schools, on which the 20 per cent calculation is based, would  rise by 10 per cent in each year, with the projected student numbers spread between systemic and nonsystemic schools as in 1972. 
I believe that that is totally misleading to the Australian public. Let us have a look at just one example of an increase in State expenditure. Let us take New South Wales as an example. I understand that the expenditure on primary schools in New South Wales in 1972- 73 was $152.3 8m and that it has budgeted to spend $li&amp;1.69m in 1973-74. I also understand that the expenditure on secondary schools in New South Wales in 1972-73 was some $149m and that it has budgeted for an expenditure of $181. lm in 1973-74. Both are as near as anything to an increase of 20 per cent. So on those figures alone the basis of this table is completely erroneous and the table would give a very false impression to anybody reading the figures. I notice also that the amount quoted for non-systemic schools in the previous Government's allocation is $3 1.8m for 1974 and $35.3m for 1975. That is different from the Karmel Committee's estimates for non-systemic schools under the previous Gov.ernment'c program. It quoted the amounts of $34m and $3 8m respectively. 
Why are those figures different from the figures in the Karmel Committee's report? What is the basis for them. Do they presuppose a big drop in non-systemic school enrolments? That may be the answer. If it is, I wish the Acting Minister would make the basis for the calculations specifically available to us because on the figures before us it is very hard to understand how the conclusions are arrived at. That is one of the reasons why the whole argument surrounding the allocation of recurrent grants to independent schools has been so traumatic. Not only have previous statements by both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  appeared to have been dishonoured but also the figures put forward are confusing, misleading and capable of many interpretations. So I hope the Minister will make clear the basis of the figures as outlined in his second reading speech. 1 am disturbed about that section of the Acting Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
Clearly the Catholic systemic schools will benefit greatly under our approach. 
That seems to me to be an extremely devisive statement. I hope that the Acting Minister will reconsider it. I would not like to think that the present Government is trying to set one Catholic school system against another and to turn friend against friend - in other words, to divide and conquer. I think it is a divisive statement that is not worthy of the Government. 
I would like to conclude my speech by quoting from the editorial from which the honourable member for Chisholm also quoted and which appeared in the 'Australian' of 8 August 1973. It reads: 
If there is to be any intelligent reallocation of resources it ought to be done on the basis of a much deeper, more realistic appraisal of respective needs. 
Even then the equity and wisdom of a scheme which reduces government aid to a certain type of school while increasing it to others could be questioned. The argument for supporting Catholic schools rests on the fact that Catholic parents are taxpayers and are entitled to share in the benefits of the education spending their taxes support. 
Other parents with children at private schools are equally taxpayers. If it is fair to subsidise a parent who is giving his child a private education for religious reasons it is hardly reasonable to discriminate against those doing the same thing for other reasons, which may be no less admirable. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Armitage)_ 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was rather surprised at the nasty little speech made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  Does he honestly suggest that the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, or the National Council of Independent Schools, or the Australian Parents Council, or the Australian Teachers Federation, or the Australian Council of State School Organisations do not have sufficient competence and do not have sufficient interest to nominate effective people to be placed upon this Schools Commission? If he does, let him say so. I was very surprised to hear the honourable member for Casey putting forward such arguments that the Opposition knows that these amendments are unacceptable to the Government and therefore we should meekly surrender them. I find this unacceptable myself. Let us look at some of the arguments advanced by people such as the honourable member for Casey. He says that members nominated by such bodies as I have enumerated will not be free and independent people. The new Clause 4b proposed by the amendments states: 
A member shall not be responsible to the person, body or organisation which recommended the member's appointment. 
This specifically states that the members nominated by these organisations shall be free and independent people. Is the honourable member for Casey suggesting that they would not be free and independent people? 
is the mandatory appointment of those people who should be represented on the Schools Commission. We do not seek to destroy the concept of the Schools Commission. We do not seek to destroy the flexibility of the Schools Commission. We do not seek to destroy the work of the Schools Commission. What we seek to do is to take away from the Minister - not the present Minister, but perhaps future Ministers - the sheer right, the personal right, of appointing lackeys to positions. I am not saying that the present Minister has appointed lackeys to positions. What I am saying is that we will remove any suggestion that in the future this could happen. I am surprised that honourable members such as the honourable member for Casey should argue with this concept. 
Let us look at some of the other things that the Government is rejecting in terms of the amendments moved by the Opposition. The Government is objecting to amendment No. 11 to clause 13 and the concept of article 26 of the United Nations Charter of Human Rights and in particular the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. It is rejecting that. It is rejecting the concept of an obligation for governments to provide or assist in the provision and maintenance of educational opportunities for al! children which are of the highest standard and which recognise the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children and where provided and maintained by or on behalf of a government ensure that these opportunities are open without fees or religious tests to all children. This is the sort of amendment that the Government is rejecting. 
Let us have no nonsense about limiting the flexibility of the Minister. Let us have no nonsense about the Opposition rejecting the needs test or the needs approach. What we are saying in the amendments is that not only should non-government schools and the organisations I have enumerated be granted the right to be represented on the Schools Commission but also that needs should be taken into account. Let us not misrepresent the position as outlined in the amendments by the Opposition. I completely disagree with the approach adopted by the honourable member for Casey and others on the Government side. I think it totally misrepresents the attitude - in my belief the responsible attitude - as outlined by the Opposition in putting forward reasonable amendments which are in no sense designed to disrupt the operation of the Schools Commission as provided for by the Government. What we are seeking to do is to protect the children of Australia and the organisations concerned with the education of children in Australia in the future. 
 Is the Prime Minister aware that some countries have recognised the PRC - Provisional Revolutionary Government - as being a legitimate government within South Vietnam? Is he also aware that one of his acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Secondary Industry, has publicly advocated Australian Government recognition of the PRG? Did his consultations in China include the question of recognition of the PRG and is his Government going to recognise it? 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to correct a misapprehension in a question I posed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today. 
This is a debate in which one finds members of the Government Party putting forward archiac anachronistic class hatreds. 
Government supporters  -  Ob! 
Honourable members opposite may laugh. One of the myths or lies continually perpetrated by successive speakers for the Government is that all this money will be going to the so-called rich schools, as though all the pupils at category A schools came from rich homes. If they are really concerned about the wealth of individual parents, why do they not move against the wealthy parents who send their children to state schools? Where is the hypocrisy that they suggest is in us when we say that all children, no matter where they come from and no matter what their background, should be treated basically as equals? That is our main proposition. The speech of the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  was a classic of class bitterness. All we seek to do - I want to make this clear to the people of Australia - is to hold the Government to the promises it made last year. I think that must be made clear because the Government is attempting to mislead the nation yet again on this issue. Let me quote from the statements made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  last year. On 20 June 1972, speaking on recurrent grants, he said: 
The ALP has never voted against any BUI proposing Commonwealth aid lor education and it will support any forms of benefit already existing. 
In a letter to  Mr Dixon  on 13 December 1972 he, as the Prime Minister, said: 
Per capita grants to non-government schools for the year 1973 will be paid at the rates now approved under the provisions of that Act. Commencing in 1974 additional Commonwealth contributions towards fulfilling the costs of non-government schools will be considered on the basis of relative need. 
Additional - that is the point. Let up keep him to his promise. What about the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)?  On 27 October 1972 he said: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
Now what do honourable members opposite say about that? Let us try to bring a little honesty into the performance of the Government. The Minister for Education, in his speech on 26 September last year, said: 
But we give a fair warning that if we are in power, while there will be an expenditure on non-government schools of no less than the sum total that will be appropriated in this Bill, the appropriation will be reapportioned - it will be reapportioned on the basis of need. 
He said nothing about cutting it out. 
Reapportioned, surely, but nothing about cutting it out. That is what the Government has done, and not just to category A schools but to a large number of schools. Fifty-three per cent of the independent secondary schools will get less under this Labor Government. Let honourable members opposite remember that. I refer not just to category A schools but to 53 per cent of the independent secondary schools. Despite the preelection promises made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education a deliberate secret instruction was given to the Karmel Committee - 'government schools will not be pre-determined'. That was in complete contradistinction to the promises delivered to the Australian population before the election, because the Australian Labor Party knew before the election that this was a really live issue. It sought to pull the wool over the Australian electors' eyes by promising them these things, and it succeeded. Now we are simply trying to hold the Government to its promises so that this 53 per cent of non-government secondary schools will not be disadvantaged by the actions of the Government. 
We have a very simple point to make. We believe that every child, regardless of where he comes from, whether he comes from Surrey Hills or the electorate of Casey, has a fundamental right to a basic level of support in terms of education expenditure from the Federal Government. This is the position we take. This is the position we have always taken. Every child - no class distinction, no lower class, upper class or middle class - has this fundamental right. In addition - we make no secret about this; we put it forward, and we put it forward clearly - where there are obvious areas of need we would seek to have additional funds expended. We have made this position quite clear. It is totally misleading for honourable members opposite to say that we seek to hold up or to destroy $690m additional government expenditure on education. We do not. Let them not try to confuse the Australian public. We do not try to hold that up. What we seek to do is have that money spent throughout Australia, because we agreed during the second reading debates on the States Grants (Schools) Bill and the Schools Commission Bill that that money needs to be spent. But in addition we seek to ensure the fundamental right of every Australian child, free from class bitterness and class distinction. 
There is no attempt to block this legislation. What we simply seek to do is to put before the Australian people the promises made by the members of this Government when they were in Opposition last year and seek to hold them to those promises. What could be fairer than that? 
The Minister sought information about costs. Let me quote to him a telegram received last night from the National Council of Independent Schools. It states: 
The Committee of the National Council of Independent Schools meeting in Melbourne today- 
That is yesterday - unanimously reaffirmed its strong general support for the proposal of the Australian Government to provide substantial additional funds for the improvement of all Australian schools- 
We hold to that. We agree with it, and I am sure all honourable members opposite would agree too. The telegram goes on: 
Its firm belief in the principle that each Australian child should receive basic recurrent educational suppott by a grant from the Australian Government of a proportion of the per pupil cost in government schools irrespective of the school attended and that further grants according to need should be added to this bask grant- 
We agree with that completely. 
Let me just add one more point. What schools in Australia need, whether they be classified in the lowest categories or the highest categories is security, and what they do not have under the legislation as proposed by this Government is security. What they would have under the policies as enunciated by the Liberal and Country Parties would be this security. It would provide a basic firm groundwork for future planning. Anybody who has had any experience in managing any organisation would know that you need to know what security you have for the future. If you do not have this the whole basis of your planning is cast in doubt. That is the position of a large number of schools - not just the lower category schools, not just the higher category schools, but all independent schools. They are deprived this basic security by the legislation proposed by the present Government. Let no headmaster from any independent school, be it Catholic or non-Catholic, be in doubt about that. 
The telegram from the National Council of Independent Schools goes on to state that it reaffirms: 
Its hope that all political parties will co-operate in the legislation necessary to implement this principle ... its belief that the additional cost of such action need not exceed 5 million dollars per  annum. 
Let us just have one or two clear points made. The Opposition does not seek to block this legislation. We seek to encourage the Government to expend the additional $690m. I repeat that we do not seek to block this legislation. In fact we voted for it in this House, and we made it perfectly clear at the time that we did vote for it. What we seek to do is to provide security for all independent schools, no matter what category they are in. What we seek to do is to provide a fundamental right for all Australian children to support from the Australian Government - to all Australian school children, no matter what school they are at - free of religious bias, free of class bitterness as put forward particularly by the Minister for Secondary Industry. This is all we seek to do, and we would hope that in this place and the other place the Government can come to some accommodation to enable this to be done. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, Australia's National Anthem should not be changed without a total vote of the Australian people on suggested alternative anthems including 'God Save The Queen'. 
I would like to make the motion clear right at the beginning, and to make sure that everyone understands the wording and intention of the proposition I shall read it again. It states: 
That, in the opinion of this House, Australia's National Anthem should not be changed without a total vote of the Australian people on suggested alternative anthems including 'God Save The Queen'. 
This is a very simple proposition,  Mr Speaker,  but like many simple propositions it embodies complex and deeply felt aspirations and desires. Firstly, it seeks to give every Australian of voting age the right to make a choice with respect to Australia's national anthem. Secondly, it seeks to ensure that every voting Australian will have the right to express a personal view as to whether 'God Save the Queen' continues as our national anthem. 
Before the proposition is subject to any misrepresentation let me make it clear what it does not attempt to do. It deliberately avoids an expression of opinion as to what should or should not be the anthem. It specifically leaves that question to be answered by the Australian people. It specifically does not enter into the argument as to whether Australia should ' or should not have a national song and a national anthem. It specifically does not offer an opinion as to whether our national anthem should or should not be an all Australian anthem with words and music composed and written by Australians alone. Most especially it does not attempt to impose upon all the Australian people an anthem chosen by a possibly unrepresentative minority - in addition a choice made without the opportunity of voting for the present Australian anthem. 
Looking at the issues contained in the debate - issues incidentally which have stirred Australian citizens from all walks of life and of all political persuasions - I believe we can agree on some points. The first is the fact that a national anthem is a continuing symbol of enormous significance to the people of the nation it symbolises. As such it transcends the usual barriers dividing people such as age, income, or political allegiance. It is a symbol representative of all the people, from the youngest to the oldest, from the humblest to the highest in the land. Therefore, the choice of an Australian national anthem affects us all. The decision will be binding and I would hope will be accepted by all Australians, present and future. Should such a decision be arbitrarily imposed on the nation without every Australian having the opportunity to take part in that decision, I believe there is a very real chance of a divisive rather than a cohesive situation emerging. 
It can be argued that never in the past were people given the chance to vote on their national anthem, that it is usual for a decision to be made by the authorities of whatever sort and this decision simply handed on to the people. I reject that utterly. Participatory democracy is a phrase which very readily springs to the lips of many people today. I have heard it frequently from members of the Government. Communication, education, community interest and awareness are such today that arbitrarily imposed decisions particularly of a symbolic non-materialist kind are less and less acceptable. Community attitudes and expectations are such that people believe on issues such as this that not only should they have the opportunity to cast their vote, but that indeed they have the right so to do. 
It can be argued that it would take too long, or cost too much, to have a vote of all eligible electors - that is all that is meant by the words 'a total vote' - in other words a referendum on the question. I do not believe this position is defensible. After all, the present Government has not shown itself averse to holding referenda. We have two coming up this Saturday. The second was added after a decision to hold the first was announced. We already have decisions to hold referenda next year. There is absolutely nothing to prevent this question being voted upon at the same time, at minimal cost to the Australian public. In fact the cost of conducting a vote adding this question to the decisions to be made in respect of other matters would most assuredly be less than the cost of sampling 60,000 Australians as is presently proposed. 
Is a referendum, or a total vote, a fair way to arrive at a decision? In this instance, I believe the case is incontravertible. I shall refer to what the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  said, on 14 November last in this Parliament in discussing proposed referenda. He said: 
All the Government needs to do is to give the people of Australia at a referendum' which he described in the same speech as perhaps one of the most democratic ways of deciding things in a democratic society' - the opportunity to consider three propositions. 
He went on to say: 
Nothing could be more important than the democratic processes in Australia and nothing could be more important and indeed urgent than that the people of Australia should be entitled to consider these propositions. 
In that speech he charged the Opposition with trying to prevent referenda being held and said that this was 'wrong and scandalous', and made it clear that the Government was determined to hold the referenda. 
The propositions were to alter the Constitution and those opposing my motion may argue that the choice of a national anthem does not need a constitutional alteration and, therefore, no referendum is required. It is quite true that it does not need a constitutional alteration, but matters other than for altering the Constitution can be put to referendum. This can be done either by Act or by command of the Governor-General. Of course, it is normal for the Governor-General to follow the advice of his Ministers. Referendums other than for altering the Constitution have been held. They were the military service refer endums held in 1916 and 1917. So the precedent obviously is there. 
It is of interest that the present anthem has been by long practice rather than by formal legal acceptance and that the Queen, through the exercise of executive prerogative authority in Australia at the Commonwealth level, could issue a proclamation in relation to this matter. But under the present constitutional position the States are self-governing British colonies with Governors who are agents of the British Government as well as formally representing the Queen. Therefore, there is the possibility of conflict if the Commonwealth approved a new anthem that was not acceptable to some States, and if those States insisted on playing God Save The Queen' on state occasions. I do not believe that such a situation would arise, but it could; and, if it did, then a very divisive element would be introduced into Australian society. It certainly would be avoided if all electorally enrolled Australians were given the opportunity to participate in the decision. 
It may be argued, as we hear so frequently, that the Government has a mandate to change the anthem. It certainly does not have a mandate to change the anthem in the way it proposes. Newspapers all over the country carried reports of a speech made at Griffith by the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 19 November 1972, just 13 days before the election. I have a copy of the statement. It is headed 'Whitlam at Griffith, Sunday, 19/11/72', and I obtained it from his Press office this week. It says that Australia will have its own anthem and: we shall invite and ensure the participation of the people in choosing it. 
It also says: 
The choice of the Australian people, not the musical tastes of George II, should determine Australia's National Anthem. 
Nothing could be plainer than that. That is a clear undertaking to invite and ensure the people's participation in the choice of an anthem. I do not wish to score political points by speaking of promises made and broken. But here is a clear and unequivocal undertaking made just 13 days prior to the Government's obtaining office. It should be honoured. All Australians eligible to vote should have the right, as offered to them by the Prime Minister, to exercise their choice on this question. 
The second part of my motion refers to the choice offered. I do not wish to comment on the 3 suggested alternatives, except to say that I find it extraordinary that a national contest was held, more than 1,000 entries were received; they were judged in almost obscene haste, and not one was considered good enough to put before the Australian people - an absolutely extraordinary situation. Be that as it may, the Government has decided on the 3 so-called Australian songs. However, to obtain a true indication of the will of the Australian people, and not simply the will of the Government, the present anthem must be included in the choices offered. Not to do so is to make an arbitrary decision on a subject which, as I have said, transcends party politics and individual differences. There is a very real concern in the electorate on this matter; newspapers have been inundated with letters for and against the present anthem and the suggested alternatives. Members of this House have received - I know I have - thousands of letters on the subject. Petitions bearing thousands of signatures have been presented in this House. 
As I have said, my motion offers no opinion as to which of the alternatives should be our anthem. It does not seek to delve into the nationalism or otherwise of the Australian people. It does not offer an opinion as to how that nationalism should be manifest. The Government obviously believes that an expression of nationalism should be manifested in a new anthem. That can be tested only by a full vote of the Australian people, with the opportunity of expressing an opinion on the present anthem being given to them. This House should make abundantly clear to the Government that it will not tolerate the arbitrary imposition of a national anthem on the Australian people. The satisfaction of one man's ego should be submerged and the genuine expression of the Australian people should be allowed to declare itself. To do less is to cheat and distort that expression and to deny the rights of present and future Australians. 

 Mr Cook I second the motion and reserve my right to speak. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Education. Is it a fact that primary schools in the Catholic systemic system have been designated in the Karmel report as being in the equivalent of categories F and G in recurrent resource use? Is it also a fact that the Acting Minister said in his second reading speech that Catholic systemic schools will receive an average of $90 per primary pupil in 1974 and $135 per primary pupil in 1975? Are these amounts equivalent to a category H subsidy? Will the Minister explain why Catholic primary schools in -the systemic system receive up to $40 per pupil more than independent primary schools of equivalent resource use categorisation? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many (a) primary school and(b) secondary school pupils are there in the Roman Catholic systemic school system in 1973. 
Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware that defence personnel are at present on Lord Howe Island to commence shortly construction of an airstrip suitable only for light aircraft? Is he aware that great concern has been expressed as to the effect of such an airstrip on the extremely fragile environment of Lord Howe Island? Has there been a complete environmental impact study on the effects of the suggested airstrip? If so, does it support the construction of the airstrip and will he make it public? If not, will he intercede immediately to halt construction and prevent the potential environmental disaster many believe will occur if the airstrip is constructed, until such time as an environmental impact study has been completed and published? 
As usual we have been treated to a discourse by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  I was interested in the honourable member's speech because he comes out with the statements which he pursues, and has pursued, over the time that he has been in the Parliament. I was interested to hear his views on public opinion polls and the statistics contained therein.  His  very strong' reference to the public opinion polls would lead us, and unfortunately the Australian people, to have no hope for recourse from this present Government because the public opinion polls show very clearly that if this present Government had the courage to go to the people- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  He is out of his place and out of place. The Australian people would reject very firmly the continuance of the Australian 
Labor Party in office and reject it for impeccable reasons. I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Casey on education. I thought it was very brave of him to bring up education today because if ever the Labor Party were caught with principles down, rather than its pants down, it was caught with its principles down at question time today when we had no less a person than the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say that he agreed that grants to non-government schools should be only on the principle of need. Yet we find in areas administered directly by the Federal Government - by the Prime Minister - in other words the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, that the allocation of moneys to non-government schools is being made on exactly the same principle as that which the Prime Minister and the Labor Government as a whole have derided throughout this nation, in other "words, 20 per cent of the cost of government schooling. So where do they stand now? Where does this principled honourable member for Casey stand? Where did the Caucus come out? What decision did it make on this? So, as I have said, the Prime Minister, and the Government, were caught with its principles down when this was revealed for the first time. 
We find a very unusual situation confronting the Parliament today. We have an Address-in-Reply debate in the second year of government of the Australian Labor Party. Why is this so? This is the sort of debate that takes place at the beginning of operations of a new Administration. Should it be suggested that the Prime Minister has suddenly become a monarchist? This is a suggestion that springs to mind but I cannot support it, of course. This is the man who said that a monarchy was irrelevant in today's situation, so it cannot be that the Prime Minister has suddenly become a monarchist. Could it be, could we dare to suggest, that the proroguing of the Parliament, that the occasion for this Address-in-Reply debate, was to further the Prime Minister's electoral aims? If we put forward this proposition perhaps we are getting a little closer to the truth because, of course, we all know that the speech delivered by  Her  Majesty in the Senate was not written by  Her  Majesty herself. In fact it was written for the Queen by  Her  Majesty's Government, as of course it is always written for her or for her representative, the Governor-General, when she is not here. But it is a fairly shabby trick for somebody who professes to be a republican to try to hang on to the coat tails of the Royal Family. In fact, it had its success. Some people have been fooled. They believe that the speech delivered by  Her  Majesty was in fact written by herself and not written by her Government, in other words, the minions of the Prime Minister. Therefore, if it has had this success the Prime Minister can be counted as fooling some of the people some of the time. 
But why did he prorogue Parliament? What is the reason for the proroguing of Parliament? We know that the effect of the prorogation is to take everything off the notice paper to allow the Prime Minister to orchestrate the business of both the House of Representatives and of the Senate, in a period when we are, as we know, approaching a Senate election. I think that we are getting close to the real reason. We have a Prime Minister who wants to orchestrate the business coming before the Senate so that he can falsely present to the Australian people an argument that the Senate is obstructionist, that the Opposition in the Senate is obstructionist and is delaying and refusing the passage of legislation which ought to be passed because of the mandate granted by the Australian people. Let us have a look at this argument. Is the Senate obstructionist? Let us just check the figures. There were 223 Bills presented last year. The exuberant Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  claimed a record of Bills put and Bills passed. If we have an obstructionist Opposition and an obstructionist Senate, we cannot have it both ways. If the Senate were obstructionist a record would not have been established. Let us look at the situation. Of the 223 Bills last year only three were defeated twice - only three. Only ten out of the 223 were defeated once or more. Some others were deferred or referred to various committees. But is this the action of an obstructionist Senate? Is this an Opposition in the other chamber delaying the mandate of the people? Hardly. Of the 223 Bills a total of ten were defeated once or more. Some were referred. Is this obstructionist? Now of course we have the opportunity for the Prime Minister, because he prorogued the Parliament to introduce some of the Bills that were defeated or deferred or amended or referred in the previous session once again. So he will attempt to build up in the minds of the people of Australia the thought that the Senate is obstructionist and therefore the Government's candidates at the forthcoming Senate election should be returned. What absolute nonsense. What do the people think about this? The honourable member for Casey, who I notice has left the chamber, is very good at making a speech and rushing out of the chamber. He is not so good at making a speech but he is good at rushing out of the chamber. He is all for public opinion polls. Let us have a look at the most recent public opinion poll on the role of the Senate, an ANOP poll, which could hardly be said to be biased in favour of the Liberal Party or the Australian Country Party. In fact, it has been suggested that it should be renamed the Labor Party poll. It revealed that one per cent of the electorate at large believed that the Senate was obstructionist. So let us have no further nonsense of this business that the Senate is obstructionist. Let us face it, governments in this country, even the Liberal-Country Party Governments, operated with a lack of majority in the Senate from 1967 to 1972. Now we have the bleating of the present Government because it says that we have an obstructionist Senate. It is just nonsense. We have the Address-in-Reply before us. Its adoption was moved by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  I am sorry that he is not in the chamber this evening. I thought he did himself less than justice, and that is putting it nicely. I believe that the honourable member for Phillip was beginning to develop for himself something of a reputation in this House for contribution to debate. He destroyed that reputation in my view, and in the view of many others, in the 20 minutes contribution that he made in the Address-in-Reply debate.  His  speech was sycophancy to the point of nausea. He came in with a sort of Mark Anthony manner of saying: 'I come to bury Ceasar not to praise him'. He did that. He certainly buried the Prime Minister in attempting to praise him. He spent all of his time praising the Prime Minister. I am sorry that the honourable member for Phillip did not make a more considered contribution to this House. He spent some time on the speeches that the Prime Minister made on his recent overseas trip - one of his many - and on the adulation, as he put it, that the Prime Minister received. I have read these speeches. I have copies of the principal speeches that were made. The speeches were delivered in Malaysia, Thailand, Laos, Burma, Singapore and the Philippines. The speeches made to the Prime Minister by the leaders of those countries cover 6 pages. I also have a copy of the speeches made by the Prime Minister in those countries. He made 6 principal speeches which cover 57 pages. Here is a man who has obviously gone abroad and has talked more than he has listened. He has to talk a lot too, because the situation in South East Asia has been muddied more than somewhat by the efforts of this present Government in that area. 
I believe that at this stage we should be looking at the duties of a government and considering whether this Government in particular measures up to those duties. I am talking generally when I talk about the duties of a government. I believe that, certainly, the principal duty of any government of whatever political persuasion should be to provide the nation with security so that development can be allowed within a civilised framework. A government's principal duty is to provide security for the nation. Another main duty of a government is to protect the value of the people's money. We will have more to say about that. Another duty of a government is to reward individual initiative, thrift and hard work among its citizens. Another principal duty of a government is to oversee change. How does this present Labor Government measure up to these duties which are by no means exhaustive but which are, nevertheless, principal among those which confront any government? 
Firstly, let us look at security and the Services. From speakers on this side of the House we have heard about the parlous condition of the Australian Services at this stage. I do not need to elaborate those conditions. Let us have a quick look at them. In the Army the numbers are down and we have an increased rate of resignation. This is very disturbing because among those resignations - in fact, forming a significant proportion of them - are trained men whom the Army can ill afford to lose. The Navy is particularly important now that we have retreated within Australia's shores. If, through any mischance, we happen to be involved in any serious problems the Navy will be required as an initial buffer to any attack which may come. What has happened to the Navy? The DDL program has been completely set aside. 
The honourable member for Robertson interjects again. He is leaning there in somnambulant manner, out of his chair. He is practising being in the front bench, although on his present performance he has no chance of being on the front bench. 
Order! Keeping in mind what the honourable member for Chifley said earlier today, I would advise him to keep to the subject matter of the debate. 
Of course, the time is very close when we will reform the Superannuation Fund itself. The proposed new superannuation scheme has been before the Cabinet which has referred it for actuarial determination. I do not have the slightest doubt that when the legislation is implemented for a new Commonwealth superannuation scheme the Public Service will also be very pleased that this Federal Labor Government came to office. I have cited a few of the achievements of the Government. I am sorry,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if in doing so I was out of order. I did not realise that I was out of order. I thought it was reasonable to state the record of the Government. 
To go back to the basic contents of this Bill, I once again make the point that excess funds amounting to $70,015,000 are to be distributed to all serving members of the Public Service and those receiving pensions under the present superannuation scheme. Of that amount $52,525,000 will go to contributors. It is expected that they will receive that as a Christmas present next December - a very nice Christmas present indeed. A special effort is to be made to give pensioners an earlier payment, because I think most people would agree that they deserve it. They will receive their share in September-October this year. The total to be allocated to pensioners is $17,490,000. Needless to say a great deal of concern has been expressed by members of that section of the trade union movement associated with the Public Service. I do not think too many honourable members did not have approaches made to them about the $70m-odd. Concern has been expressed about whether public servants were to get back surplus contributions. The important thing is that the Labor Government has not abrogated its undertaking to those employees. I would like to believe that the Opposition, had it been in government, would have done what this Government has done. On past record, on past history, one could not help but have some doubt. 
I commend the Bill to the House. I believe that it is a sound piece of legislation and that the sooner it is passed through this House and goes on to another place the better it will be in the interests of all people concerned. 
Tonight I want to bring up the question of surf life saving clubs. I hope that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will not leave the chamber, because I want to mention the subject of postal charges in relation to the surf life saving movement. 
It is up to you. There is no doubt that the Australian image overseas as generally seen by people living overseas is one largely of wide open spaces or of glorious beaches. Tonight I want to talk about the second part of that equation, the glorious beaches, and more particularly the work that the surf life saving movement does and has done for many years in relation to the patrolling of these beaches. All honourable members who have had experience of surfing on Australian beaches will, I am sure, join with me in recognition of the outstanding service offered over a great number of years by the voluntary members of the surf life saving movement. It is a world famous movement. In fact Australian methods have been adopted throughout the world. In any consideration of the benefit that the movement has brought to a great number of Australians, we should realise that well over 200,000 lives have been saved on Australian beaches which have been patrolled by the. surf life saving movement. 
As I have said, the surf life saving movement is a voluntary organisation which exists solely to protect the public when they visit a beach. Surf life saving club members donate their time and certainly risk their lives without any personal gain. They do not receive out of pocket expenses for the costs of travelling to and from the beaches or for the cost of meals when they are on duty. Additionally they often suffer losses of clothing and personal effects when they perform the many necessary duties outside the rostered patrols. These people are not strangers to self-help. They are a selfless body of men, and I believe they deserve the highest commendation from the community as a whole, and I believe they deserve the utmost support from the various Parliaments in Australia. They take considerable pride in their endeavours, and they raise their club operating expenses mainly by methods of self-levy. In fact it costs them money, a great deal of money in many cases, to belong to these organisations and perform the selfless duties that they perform. 
It is a fact that local councils are the main source of capital funds and maintenance for surf life saving groups. I would also pay a tribute to both past Commonwealth governments and the present Commonwealth Government for the degree of help they have rendered to the movement. The present Government has set aside a considerable sum of money to assist the surf life saving movement. But the point I want to come to is that the culmination of these factors means that a person from anywhere in Australia, whether he lives on the beachside or not or whether he is a visitor to Australia, can spend a day on the beach and enjoy the full protection of qualified life savers without any personal cost. The attendance at beaches is not confined to those whole live, near them or who pay the local rates which go to help maintain the clubs which patrol the beaches. As I say, protection is available to visitors from throughout Australia and from overseas. 
The equipment costs of surf life saving clubs have risen dramatically in the last few years, as of course the sophistication of the equipment has risen. Whilst I acknowledge the part that many organisations have played in helping surf life saving clubs to meet these costs, nevertheless still a great proportion of the money needed is raised by the voluntary effort of the surf life saving members themselves. This is the point that I am glad the Minister has stayed to hear, because a key piece of surf life saving equipment which most of the 234 clubs in Australia must have on the premises is a telephone. This equipment is owned by all Australian clubs, and in this instance is used solely to protect lives. A surf club without a telephone - just imagine it - would not be of much use when a sudden emergency develops. The full cost of the telephone, that is the rental plus the calls, is met out of club funds. Over the years this has been a major cost which can only be met by club members leaving the beach to cadge the money by running raffles, by apprehending cars at traffic lights and by numerous other methods by which these clubs have existed and supplied the means whereby they have continued to serve the public in the past. 
I acknowledge that the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  and his Department have expressed sympathy with the concept of a voluntary service organisation such as the surf life saving movement having its telephone rental waived. But under the regulations the Postmaster-General is powerless to waive these charges. Tonight I submit to the Special Minister of State and to the House that should the Government free the surf life saving clubs from the financial burden of meeting telephone bills it would probably be singularly the most welcome expression of gratitude the community as a whole could make, and it would cost each Australian family only about lc a year. Actually it would cost a little more than that because, as we all know, the Government has recently introduced savage increases in both rental and installation charges. With rapidly rising operating expenses, some surf life saving clubs are facing a decision this year to have their club telephone disconnected simply because the cost cannot be met. I believe very sincerely that if such a situation came about, if clubs were reduced to the prospect of having their telephones disconnected, the degree of service provided not only to members of the public who live near the beaches but also to a great number of other Australians would be severely curtailed. 
Therefore I appeal to the Minister and to the House as a whole to support what 1 believe would be a just and appropriate decision by the Australian Government to approve regulations allowing the PostmasterGeneral to waive telephone charges to surf life saving clubs before the next summer season. Given the guarantee of a telephone to assist in summoning help when needed, this gesture would provide an added incentive for our active life savers to add next year to the proud record which they have of no lives lost on patrolled beaches. This record - it is a proud record - could easily be lost if through increasing rental charges and installation charges surf life saving clubs were forced either not to put a telephone on or to disconnect the telephone they have already. I believe that this gesture would be a just and reasonable one. I believe that it would provide active encouragement to a body of dedicated people and it would indicate to the public as a whole that this Government supported the voluntary service rendered to countless thousands of Australians and visitors to Australia by the members of the surf life saving movement. 
There can be no doubt that one of the principal responsibilities of any national government is the framing and administration of immigration policy. Immigration and its effects on a nation is not a short term phenomenon. The impact that migrants have had on Australia's social, cultural and economic life, particularly since the Second World War, has been immense and worth while. I should point out that the effects will be permanent. Migration policies affect the life style, the composition and the very nature of the nation's people. The results of immigration policies are irreversible. Decisions taken must be the result of detailed analysis and a keen appreciation of long term effects. To do less would be irresponsibility of the worst kind. Because the effects of changing migration policies and administration are so far reaching, the Opposition believes that the Government owes to the people of Australia, both recent arrivals and those who could claim to be native sons, a clear and detailed explanation of the reasons behind the recent changes wrought in the immigration field. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  acting as usual it would seem entirely unilaterally, decided to split up the Department of Immigation. The decision is an extremely strange one. I remind honourable members that some 4 years ago the then Liberal-Country Party Government set up one of the most detailed series of studies into determining long term population strategies that any country had undertaken. The National Population Inquiry, under the direction of Professor Borrie, has been carrying on its investigations supported firstly by the Liberal-Country Party Government and since 1972 by the present Labor Government. It is an extremely detailed series of investigations. The National Population Inquiry will make recommendations on the best possible size, composition and distribution for Australia's population at various stages up to the year 2000. It is required specifically to take into account the following factors: The situation in countries to which Australia is linked through migration, trade, political affairs or geography; contemporary population theories and their economic, social and ecological implications; the natural growth potential of Australia's population, variations in rates and patterns betwen different parts of the Commonwealth, and the influence of internal and external migration. This includes the Aboriginal population, both in the total situation and as a separate sub-study. The other factor is the impact of technological advance, together with changes in total population, on the use of resources and the distribution of Australia's population; and, finally, factors bearing on the distribution of Australia's population and the desirability, scope for and feasibility of effecting substantial changes in these distribution patterns. The possible effects of this inquiry's recommendations in relation to future immigration policies and administration are obviously enormous. 
The Committee was due to report to the Government this June, according to the previous Minister for Immigration, when he spoke about it last year. As far as I know it has not yet done so. But obviously, if not already completed, the report is near to hand. What an extraordinary and arbitrary decision to make such sweeping changes before public examination and discussion of such an important document. Should the report produce findings which are at some variance with the Government's apparent present stance it is extremely likely that more disruption and further changes could become necessary. On the other hand, the changes already made could result in a reluctance to change again, and hence possibly diminish desirable changes recommended by the inquiry. Either way, the exercise of a little restraint by the Prime Minister could have avoided potential difficulties. 
Let us now look at some of the other uncertainties and potential trouble spots created by the Prime Minister's action. The final split up of the Department is still not clear despite the passage of some 6 weeks since the initial announcement. We have the continuing spectacle of various Ministers squabbling over the division of the spoils, and this division is still not finalised. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  are still battling for control of the population planning section of the Department. The interesting aspect of this struggle is that both the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development are avowed supporters of zero population growth, whilst the Minister for Labor and Immigration is responsible for manpower planning. We have only to think about this for a moment to see what extraordinary conflicts and contradictions could arise should the division of responsibilities take place. 
Let us look at another field of uncertainty and unease - the relationship between foreign affairs policy and immigration policy. As we all know, Australia is an extremely large continent with great natural resources, a high standard of living and a small population. It is situated close to the subcontinents of the Indian and Asian regions and all the islands of the Pacific. Some of the countries in these areas are not very large, have not great natural resources, and in many cases have standards of living considerably below ours and in some cases have considerable problems of population pressure. It is essential that Australia's relations with these countries be of the highest order. It is a fact of life that immigration policies do have some bearing on these relationships. However, the split up of the former Department of Immigration still leaves unclear the question of the issue of migrant visas. It is likely to lead to conflict and inconsistency in the future. Should the Department of Foreign Affairs be given the control of migrant visas it is not inconceivable that foreign policy implications may be given preference as a domestic economic and social consideration. 
The Prime Minister is unclear as to his intentions or his wishes in this area. But I believe it is of extreme importance to the Australian nation that he should make clear his intentions and his wishes at the earliest opportunity. Again, the results of the Government's emphasis on sponsored immigration and family reunion are unclear. I should like to point out at this stage that it was the previous Liberal-Country Party Government which initiated the emphasis on family reunion. I should also like to make it quite clear that when we once again win government we will continue to support such a policy of family reunion. However, the expansion of the definition of what constitutes family reunion has led to a remarkable increase in the number of sponsored migrants and a corresponding increase in those falling into the unskilled category. The growth in sponsorship and applications which at this stage have not yet been reflected in arrival figures, simply because of the administrative complexity of processing applications, could have very real effects on the composition and opportunities for employment of future migrants. 
It has been asserted that the present policies in respect of categorisation of sponsored migrants could soon lead to effective lack of control over total migrant numbers entering Australia. If this Government has initiated a policy which will lead to a lack of control by the Government over the total numbers of migrants coming into this country, it is a very real responsibility which the Government will have to bear. In my view it would be an abrogation of national responsibility. No one would claim that the former Department of Immigration and its officers were perfect, but also no one would deny that the officers of the Department exhibited experience, expertise and dedication of an extremely high order. To support this view I have no less an authority than the former shadow Minister for Immigration, now the present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is sitting at the table. I should like to quote what he said about the Department of Immigration on 7 May 1968, in his former position as shadow Minister for Immigration. At page 1124 of Hansard he said: 
Here we have a department the officers of which act with a complete and thoroughly humane understanding of the problems of other people. I commend the officers of the Department. This Commonwealth is extremely lucky to have a department like the Department of Immigration. No other department in the Commonwealth acts so efficiently or with such great credit to its country as the Department of Immigration does. 
They were the words of the present Minister for Labor and Immigration. 
The difficulties of assimilation and integration of migrants travelling to a new country are severe. Problems are experienced by migrants from the time they enter Australia right through to and including the process of settlement. For 25 years they have had a single department to which they could turn. For 25 years officers within that Department, who had a personal knowledge of the migrants and ready access to full documentation in relation to individual migrants, were available to help them. The Department had the ability, the experience, the enthusiasm and the expertise to act quickly and decisively in response to crisis situations. There was a comradeship and a sense of purpose shared by the officers of the Department. Migrants felt that in this new and often strange environment they had a ready symbol of the Government's concern for their particular problems - one they could turn to for assistance and one they knew. 
This has all changed despite the assertions of the Prime Minister to the contrary. Assertions are not good enough. Migrants know that the inter-related nature of their problems can best be dealt with by a co-ordinated administration. Migrants feel that they have been betrayed by the dismemberment of the Department. They feel very strongly that their status within the country has been downgraded. Why were migrant groups not consulted about the decision? Why was the Immigration Advisory Council or the Good Neighbour Council not consulted about the decision? Why were senior departmental heads not consulted about the decision? It has been a sad and a very sorry exercise. Let us have a look at what the Prime Minister has achieved. He has achieved uncertainty and confusion amongst the migrants, making their task of assimilation that much more difficult. He has achieved uncertainty and confusion amongst public servants, leading to a loss of expertise, experience and dedication. He has achieved uncertainty among the general population as to the scope, direction, composition and extent of migrant intake. These are typical of the achievements of this Prime Minister and this Government. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Postmaster-General in his second reading speech on the Bill to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in the Senate- 
-As honourable members on both sides of the House have said tonight, this is a most important matter. I think it is of additional importance in this time of turbulence in the Australian community, particularly as it pertains to the standing of politicians, whether they be at a federal, State or local government level. It disturbs me that there should be such an attitude towards politicians and it disturbs me that this proposition in fact gives some indication of a feeling of concern towards the propriety of politicians. It seems to me that this, coming from the proposition that has been put before us, will seek to demonstrate that there is a degree of malpractice within the ranks of the membership of the Federal Parliament and that this course of events will discover it, or that there is malpractice and that this may stop it. 
I believe that members of the Federal Parliament have shown themselves over the many years in which the Federal Parliament has been in existence to have a very fine record in respect of allegations of malpractice. I think that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  stated the position very clearly when he said that people who become members of this House do not do so for pecuniary gain but do so through a deep sense of commitment, no matter to which Party they belong. I agree with those honourable members on this side of the House who have suggested that if people do not come into this House with this sense of commitment and if people are not of the honourable nature that we believe all members of Parliament should be, no amount of legislation will stop their malpractices. I believe that what we are seeking to do is to bring about a situation in which, if one can slightly expand the expression, justice can not only be done but also be seen to be done. 
I believe that honourable members on this side of the House are fully in agreement that some form of investigation should lay down some directions on whether a register should or should not be instituted. We believe that it is wrong to lay down a set of criteria and then form a committee to investigate them. I, along with other honourable members on this side of the House, sincerely ask the Government to look very closely at the form of the amendment and, if it cannot accept the amendment in the form presented tonight, at least to adjourn the matter so that it can come forward again for discussion. Matters of great substance are involved, including the privacy of members of Parliament, the need to think very deeply about the form that any proposed legislation should take, the question of how far the register should go if it is instituted and whether it should stop at just members of Parliament or should be extended to the judiciary, members of unions or wherever. I believe that this is a matter of great moment. I do not believe that it should be hurried through the Parliament. I believe very strongly that it is worth while considering it in great detail, in great depth and with some consideration. I sincerely ask the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, if he cannot agree with the amendment moved by the Opposition at least to adjourn further discussion of this matter until the suggestions have been deeply canvassed. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: In his recent investigation of the role of housing corporations in migrant sponsorship in Western Australia was he aware that the complaints referred to were investigated by the then Labor State Government two or more years ago and that the State Labor Minister for Immigration concluded that the scheme provided a useful service? In the Minister's investigation of the same matter did he or his Department make any approach to the Western Australian Immigration Department which has complete records on this matter? If he did not or his Department did not, why not? 
-I should like to raise 2 matters of some importance. The first concerns the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party, the  Chairman  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and his visit to Perth earlier this week. This was a well publicised visit  Mr Hawke  made a very intemperate- one could almost say an inflammatory- speech to the crowds assembled in Perth in Western Australia. This speech was the subject of a great deal of publicity. However, what I should like to know- I should like a member of the Government to tell me if it is possible- is how did  Mr Hawke  get back to Sydney. I am told by reliable sources that  Mr Hawke  chatered a plane from Swan Brewery Co. Ltd. I am quite sure that the Swan Brewery did not pay for the plane, but he chartered this plane from the Swan Brewery at a cost of $1,800. 1 am not at all sure whether the return flight to Western Australia was filled. If it was filled the additional $1,800 would have been paid by somebody else, but if the charter plane flew from Perth to Sydney and back again and  Mr Hawke  was responsible for the payment for that trip it would result in a total cost of $3,600. Who paid that amount? 
I should like to know. What are you concealing? The Trades and Labour Council in Western Australia has denied payment of that amount. All I am asking is for somebody to tell me who paid this $3,600. 1 ask a simple question and it seems to elicit some response from supporters of the Government. If they can tell me I will be grateful, and the Australian people will be grateful to know. The principal matter I raise this evening concerns the reply of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to a question asked of him by  Mr Dawkins  last week. That question concerned the matter of migrant nominations by development companies in Western Australia. In the Minister's reply were some inflammatory statements- I believe some unfair statements. In the course of his answer on 24 September the Minister mentioned that a conference of Ministers for Immigration in November 1973 agreed on South Australian rules respecting the nomination of migrants. He said it was agreed that they should be introduced throughout the States. He gave the clear impression that this had been agreed to and was put into practice by the States, including Western Australia. 

 Mr Speaker, I have some information here which suggests that this agreement which the Minister spoke about was not put into operation in 
Western Australia before the change of government which occurred there earlier this year. However, that is one point I do not want to dwell on; I want to dwell on the statements that the Minister made respecting a particular public company. I make it clear before speaking about this company that I have no association with the Landall Construction and Development Co Pry Ltd. I do not know personally any of the people connected with Landau's and I have never met  Mr Clark.  I have spoken with  Mr Clark  on the telephone and I have received some letters from him. I think it most important that we look into the statements made by the Minister in his reply to the question in this House so I quote from page 1640 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 24 September. The Minister said: 
I had this matter thoroughly investigated. 
He said this in response to some queries about the company. He also said: 
We found that there were serious allegations about the company's handling of financial arrangements for the sale of houses. It was involved also in the sale to migrants of second hand cars which proved to be not worth the money that they were made to pay for them under terms which prompted serious complaints . . . 
That is a serious charge and, of course, it was made under privilege in this House and cannot be answered by the company. Perhaps I should say it may be answered by the company, but the Minister cannot be held to account for it. The Minister said: 
There is little doubt that the Landall company was engaged in some very questionable activities. 
A little later he said: 
The Landall company is quite a questionable one in more ways than one. 
I am sure you,  Mr Speaker,  will agree that these are very serious allegations to make about a public company. They could result in a serious effect on the business in which that company engages. If one makes these allegations I think they should be backed up by some evidence. No evidence was produced by the Minister for Labor and Immigration to back up these statements. 
I believe that this is a shameful abuse of the high responsibilities which a Minister of the Crown must bear. The Minister, within the confines of this House and with the privilege of this House, publicly abused a company in such a way that people outside this Parliament are led to believe that this company is not a bona fide company and has not been operating as one would expect a public company to operate. I do not think that is very fair at all, and the Minister has a very real case to answer. 
Let me refer to 2 aspects of the matter. The first concerns the bona fides of the Western Australian 
Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grayden.  On 26 September 1974, in answer to a question from me, the Minister for Labor and Immigration said: 
A meeting of Ministers had been held on this matter at which it was agreed that conditions would be attached to the sponsorship schemes in Western Australia in line with the South Australian conditions. Accordingly, two new rules were adopted- rules 10 and 1 1. 
That answer gives the clear indication that those rules were adopted and were in force. I refer next to a telegram from the Minister for Immigration in Western Australia. It is dated 2 October 1974. The telegram states in part: 
Following instructions by the former Minister for Immigration a review of these conditions was undertaken - 
I stress these words: . . .and a draft prepared for consideration. This draft was inadvertently distributed after the change of Government and without my approval before a decision was made. It is emphasised that this was a draft prepared for consideration only. 
In other words, quite contrary to the implications contained in the Minister's answer to me in this House, these measures had not come into effect. 
Later, in his answer to my question, the Minister went on to say: . . .  Mr Grayden  wrote these words - 
The Minister then read some words to the House. He continued: 
I cannot read (4) properly, but it looks like- it is in  Mr Grayden  's handwriting. 
In response to that statement,  Mr Grayden  sent the Minister for Labor and Immigration a telegram and he sent a copy of it to me also. In it he said to the Minister. ... the information you have given to the House of Representatives is not factual. 
The telegram continues: . . . the letter that you have quoted was unlawfully removed from files in my Department and I request that you make it available to the Western Australian poliCe to aid them in their investigations into missing documents, from Western Australia departmental files. Contrary to your unequivocal statement that the marginal notes to which you refer are in my handwriting it is not so. Any handwriting must perforce be that of a departmental officer. Request you correct wrong impression which you have created. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has not done that. If the Minister were a man of honour he would forthwith correct the very wrong impression he has given. 
I now return to the question of the Landall company. This matter raises some very real questions and some very real concern. Why,  Mr Speaker,  if an investigation was carried out at the direction of the Minister did the investigating officer not discuss the matter with Landall? Landall offered to co-operate fully with the immigration task force operating in Western Australia. I have a copy of a letter signed by the  Chairman  of that company in which he states: 
I would welcome the chance of meeting the Committee and personally explaining any detail . . . 
That letter is from the  Chairman  of Landall to the  Chairman  of the task force. The  Chairman  of Lan.dall,  Mr Clark,  wrote also to the Minister for Labor and Immigration on 19 August. This is what  Mr Clark  said: 
As my company's name was mentioned in the article, following allegations made in the State Parliament by  Mr M.  Bryce, M.L.A. I am writing to seek your assurance that the officer concerned - 
I add these words 'in the investigation': . . . will, as pan of his investigations, contact the Company to obtain its answers to  Mr Bryce  's allegations and to see at first hand how our sponsorship scheme is administered. 
Later in this letter,  Mr Clark  says: ... the Company will do anything in its power to assist the Departmental Officer in his investigation. 
I put this question to the House,  Mr Speaker:  Is this the action of a company which, in the words of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, was engaged in some very questionable activities or was a questionable company in more ways than one? It certainly is not. 
Why was the State department which was involved in the original investigation not consulted by the investigating officer? How did the Minister get access to a document which was allegedly stolen from the departmental files in Western Australia? Why did not the Minister mention the additional protection given by rules 12 and 13 in the new rules brought down by the new Minister for Immigration in Western Australia. This affair raises some very real questions. I believe that a public company has been quite unfairly castigated and brought into some disrepute in this House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it a fact that a young professional man from an eastern European communist country employed by his embassy in a third country recently travelled to an independent state and sought political asylum in Australia for himself, his wife and young family through Australia's representatives in that state? Is it also a fact that the Australian head of mission in that state recommended that entry be granted? Did the Minister refuse the request without giving any explanations? Will he now give the reasons? 
-Yes, I do,  Mr Speaker.  It is in relation to a matter which has been the subject of some debate- the allegations about seeking the identity of this European person. 
I claim to have been misrepresented in that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in a reply to a question directed to him by one of his supporters, said that members of the Liberal Party were seeking to find out the identity of the man 

 -Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister, in the course of his answer, mentioned that a question had been asked of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  last week. I was the person who asked that question. Therefore he identified me. My question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration specifically did not mention the name. 
Opposition members- He is out of his seat. 
My question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration specifically did not mention the name or the country. I have written a letter to the Minister for Labor and Immigration seeking further information. That letter did not mention the name or the country. I mentioned in that letter that I would honour any restrictions the Minister for Labor and Immigration would put on my reading the file. I have had no response to that letter. I might add in passing,  Mr Speaker,  that the Prime Minister did not answer the allegations. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was endeavouring to do that when points of order were taken by the Prime Minister and other supporters of the Government. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa-Prime Minister)  -Mr Speaker,  the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has misrepresented me. 
Before speaking to the estimates for the Department of Transport I must make some reference to the speech, such as it was, made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I was diverted by the honourable member's remarks and therefore I would just put 2 suggestions to him. Firstly, when he reads a speech that someone else has written I ask him please to make sure that he does not use words with which his is not familiar because he did stumble over some of the words which he read tonight. Secondly, would he please make sure that the examples he uses are accurate? The honourable member mentioned that while he was in China he noticed that there was no discrimination between first class and second class airline passengers. I also have been to China. When I was there I observed very closely the discrimination that existed between first class and second class passengers, so much so that I made reference to it to the Chinese who were accompanying the Australian delegation on that occasion. There is certainly a very clear demarcation between the equals and the not so equals in China. 
I rise tonight to talk about the question of converting existing roads to what would be the equivalent of an expressway system. This has been raised already by supporters of the Government and adverted to by member of the Opposition. I would like to say in preface to my remarks that we as members of Parliament should be very clear that, whether we like it or not, cars are here to stay and it is no use either Ministers of the Crown or others talking about converting the transport of people by cars to the transport of people by public transport. People have become used to the individual form of transport that is afforded by cars. In fact, cars have become the public transport of the modern era. When I was in America a couple of years ago a professor of urban transport said to me that the motor car was the last bastion that the individual American had. He was talking about a man who was smitten by his boss, worried by his family situation and beset by the problems of the urban environment. The only way that he could get away from this situation was to get into his car, wind up the windows, turn on the air conditioner, put the cassette into the player and there be in his own little environment. The professor said that this man was not going to give this up very lightly. Although this is an extreme example, I think it is true that people are used to travelling by private vehicle- that is, the motor car. Therefore we must look at the problem of individual transport and not try to shove it to one side by saying that we will cope with all these problems by providing updated public transport. 
I honestly do not think that, particularly in an increasingly affluent society, we will be able to get people out of private transport into public transport. Therefore we must look at ways of improving the flow and facility of private transport, which means at this stage providing better methods of easing traffic flow. I live in the electorate of Warringah which has been mentioned tonight. I know the problems of those who travel from the peninsula area, stretching from the Spit to Barrenjoey, through the Mosman area in order to get to town. I understand the very real problems and opinions of people on the Mosman side who find that their suburban streets are choked with cars during the morning and afternoon peak times, and also the problems of those who travel through that area to get to the city. Therefore I was very interested in the submission brought forward tonight by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I refer to the Olivero system, which involves modification of the existing road system in such a way that a great expansion in the volume of traffic flow can be gained and the speed of the traffic flow can be greatly expanded. 
I believe that this system, which is already working in some areas of the world, offers not only an attractive but also what seems to be a workable and above all a cheap and rapid method of overcoming some of the particular problems which cities such as Sydney face at the present time. I refer specifically to the area which I represent- the Spit Road, Military Road and Sydney Road area. I have been told that this system could be introduced into the area at a cost of approximately $10m- I have not done the costing myself- and that if it were introduced the present road system could be expanded without necessitating any resumption of land or any demolition of existing buildings, particularly those housing dwellers. I have been told that by using the existing roads there could be a system which would allow 4 times the present rate of transport to flow through this area without interrupting the very pleasant living standards of those people who live on subsidiary roads in the Mosman-Beauty Point area. 
I have undertaken not to speak for very long in the debate tonight on the estimates for the Department of Transport, but I would ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to give the suggestion concerning the Olivero system very close attention for the points which I will now again enumerate. I have been told that it would not involve any resumption of land, that it would require no demolition of existing urban dwellings, that it would involve use of the existing roads and the traffic flow could be maintained while the alterations were taking place. It would certainly provide for freeway volume traffic, which would result in 4 times the present rate of traffic being able to flow through the area at 2.5 times the present speed. The cost, which is a very relevant factor to be taken into account when one is considering these sorts of propositions, would be, on the estimates I have been given and I have seen no figures to refute them, a very small proportion of the cost of constructing a comparable freeway system in the area which would achieve the same results. I ask the Minister to give this proposition very close attention. 
I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  because he started out, as all Government supporters do when talking about education these days, stressing the amount that is being spent on education. Of course what he does not say is that to a very large extent this is just a book entry fiddle. When I say that I do not want to detract from the many good things that have been done by the Government, but I believe if we are to talk about the increased spending we ought to do it in a way in which people can understand what has really happened. If we were honest about what the Government has done in regard to spending in education we would find in fact that it has reduced the States general purpose grants by the equivalent amount of spending that it has incurred by taking over tertiary education costs. As I have said a great deal of the increased expenditure about which the Government boasts so readily is simply a book entry fiddle. 
I agree with the honourable member for Holt that the means test on the secondary allowance scheme is far too restrictive particularly in these days of very high inflation rates. Of course this can be sheeted home to the present Government. I am quite sure that the honourable member, in his moments outside this chamber when talking quietly, would agree with me that the inflation rate has resulted in the means test which is now being applied being far too restrictive. In fact the honourable member mentioned that in his speech tonight. The other thing that worries me about this emphasis on spending is that too little emphasis is placed on the results of education and the quality of education. I was pleased that the honourable member for Holt spoke a little about the quality of education. He mentioned that $6m was to be spent on research in some aspects of the quality of education. Six million dollars is to be spent out of a total of $ 1,500m- not a great emphasis but nevertheless something to be encouraged. One of the real aspects of the Opposition's education policy is that we will encourage educational research to a much greater degree than has been the case in the past. 
Let us look at the subject of inflation. Whilst we can talk about this great amount, in truth the amount does not mean as much as we would like to believe it does, simply because the real value of the money being spent is greatly reduced. This can be sheeted home without any shadow of doubt to the economic policies being pursued by the present Government. We can prove this very easily. The cost of building and equipping a school library now is almost double what it was three or four years ago. I believe that the figures point to the fact that we should not get too enthusiastic about the absolute amount of money being spent. We should be looking at what we are getting for the money being spent. If this Government allows the rate of inflation to skyrocket in the way it has done, and in fact encourages the rate of inflation to skyrocket in the way it has- we all know the Government has a vested interest in keeping the rate of inflation high because it collects more taxes- the amount of real spending on education is vastly lessened. 
Let us have a look at the policies of the Government on education. We had the strong people of the Caucus saying that the decision of the Cabinet to reduce the amount of taxation deduction for education from $400 to $150 per child was wrong. We had some people from the Caucus coming out, mostly anonymously I must admit, and saying: 'We are going to fix this. We are going to roll the Cabinet. This is wrong. It should not have been allowed. It should not be done. People should be allowed to have the $400 tax deduction.' What did we find when the crunch came? They all went to water. This strong Caucus that we hear so much about, the 97-man Cabinet, went to water. Who will suffer for it? Not the rich people. The sock the rich, doctrinaire approach of this socialist Government is the reasoning behind the reduction of the deductions for education. The Government wants to sock the rich, to stop rich people sending their children to independent schools. Who will suffer? It is not the rich people; it is the people who send their children to State schools. 
I do not know how many honourable members in this chamber have children at school, but try to send your child to a state school and keep the expense down to $150 a year and see how you get on. It is the state school students' parents who will suffer- the lower income and middle income people- from this iniquitous decision of the Government. I think we should keep this very much in mind when Government supporters talk about how they defend the rights of the lower income and middle income groups. It is absolute nonsense. Of course many people who choose to send their children to independent schools will suffer very greatly. Again, it is not the rich people who will suffer. They can afford the expenditure. The people who will suffer are those who make sacrifices to send their children to these schools, who do without a great number of things so that they can send their children to independent schools- not all of them sectarian schools. Government supporters might have a bias against sectarian schools. That is up to them. But not all independent schools are sectarian. The Government will wreck the independent school system, not only the sectarian schools but also those independent schools which put forward proposals for experimental schools. I think we should all encourage experimental schools. There are numbers of schools in Sydney and right throughout Australia where parents, not on sectarian basis, have spent a great deal of time and effort establishing experimental courses, looking at different ways of education for their children. These are the people who will be grossly disadvantaged by the Government's decision. Let us have no misunderstanding about this. 
Another group which will be grossly disadvantaged by the Government's decision to reduce the taxation deduction are the migrants. One could not say that the migrants are amongst the higher income bracket in the community. A tremendous number of migrants have a wish and a very strong compulsion to send thier children to particular sectarian schools. Not only are these people affected by the economic policies of the present Government because they are usually the ones who get sacked first- if one looks at the unemployment figures one will find that migrants are the hardest hit of any section of the community by the present unemployment wave- but also they will be doubly hit because their taxation deductions for education of their children attending independent schools that they previously claimed will now be taken away from them. So do not let this Government say that it is the defender of the rights of the migrants any more, because in fact it is working against the migrants. 
I want it to be very clearly understood that not only is the right of choice being denied to these people, but also a great deal of very worthwhile experimentation in the independent school sector is being grossly damaged, and this has caused a great degree of disquiet. There is a very real chance that a great number of exciting initiatives will be rendered useless by the decisions of this Government. Let us have no more talk by Government supporters of how they are great supporters of educational innovations and experimentation because it is in fact simply not true because - 
The honourable gentleman says: 'Oh, rubbish.' He should talk to the people promoting the independent experimental schools and see how they will get on under the policies of the present Government. He talks about rubbish. He should talk to those people about the problem. Honourable members opposite come here and live in the rarified atmosphere of Canberra. They do not know what is going on around Australia with people making sacrifices trying to send their children to these schools. Obviously this is an area which engenders some emotion in the chamber, but I should like people to understand that this Government that holds itself out as the supporter of those people at the lower end of the economic spectrum and seeks to denigrate those people who wish to have some choice about the place of education of their children in fact is denying parents this choice. It is making it virtually impossible for parents on the lower economic scale and the middle income groups to send their children to the school of their choice. I think it should be clearly understood by those people who previously have supported this Government that in fact the policies that the Goverment is pursuing both in the economic field and with these taxation deductions for education, will mean that these parents will not have the choice that they previously had in relation to their children's education. 
I would like to associate myself with some of the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I do not often associate myself with his remarks. He has drawn the attention of the chamber and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to a situation which does require close investigation. It is not as simple as it looks, but I know that the Minister is interested in this subject and I have no doubt that he will investigate the matter very closely. 
It is rather sad that the Committee, in looking at the estimates for the Department of Labor and Immigration, is observing in relation to the immigration side of things the demolition of a department which once was held in very great esteem and which played a tremendous part in the development of this nation. I know that in the past the Minister for Labor and Immigration has paid a series of tributes to the personnel of the former Department of Immigration for the work that they did on behalf of this country. I think that he, like I, will be saddened by some of the figures set out in the estimates for the Department of Labor and Immigration. For instance, one finds in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75 that the amount for the item concerning immigration studies and research is down from the appropriation of $92,000 last year to the appropriation of $9,400 this year. I turn the page and find that the appropriation for embarkation and passage costs is down $7m, from the appropriation of $20m last year to the appropriation of $ 13m this year. I think those two amounts which I have drawn out as examples show very clearly the way in which the Labor Government has moved very quickly since the election on 1 8 May to dismember and despatch the former Department of Immigration. 
Most members of this chamber and, I am sure, most people in Australia have a very clear idea of the benefits which have accrued to this country from the major immigration program which has been going on since the end of the Second World War. It is not necessary for me to accent the social, cultural and economic benefits which have accrued to this nation through the integration, hard work and dedication of the people who have come here from all over the world. But what do we find now under the Labor Government, which, I might add, came to power professing to have the interests of the migrants at heart? In a very real sense the Australian Labor Party has hoodwinked a large number of people, particularly those of migrant origins, throughout Australia. We see the break-up of the former Department of Immigration proceeding apace which will have 2 very real effects. 
Firstly, there is the effect on the migrants. There is an actual effect on the welfare of the migrants in this country. It will be very much more difficult to administer the many problems which beset migrants who have come to Australia recently or who have been here for some time. It will be very much more difficult to administer those things which go to make life more easy for the migrants who have come to Australia. There will be very much less flexibility in the approaches which can be made to the many problems which beset individual migrants when they come here. There will be a very great diminution of the ability to react to the unusual circumstances which often arise extremely quickly- for instance, with the arrival of an aeroplane bringing migrants to Australia, although, of course, under the administration of the present Labor Government the arrival of aeroplanes bringing migrants is a very rare occurrence these days. 
But probably even more important is the psychological effect on the migrant community brought about by the break-up of the former Department. They feel very strongly- I can understand their feelings- that the Labor Government has abandoned them as a group within the community. No matter to which ethnic group in the community they belong, as a section of the community the migrants feel that they are being downgraded because the former Department, which had so much influence in their lives and had such a very real appreciation of the problems that they, as individual migrants, face, has been broken up. There will be a very great effect also on the public servants who previously made up the Department of Immigration. I have travelled around' Australia talking to the various members of the former Department of Immigration in the various States and I have sensed a very real feeling not only of sadness but also of great disillusionment. Firstly, there is the loss of the expertise of those people who have dedicated a lifetime to the service of the former Department and of this nation. In the ranks of the younger members of the staff, there is a quite understandable unrest as to what their career opportunities are. They do not know where they are going. They do not know what the future holds for them in terms of career opportunities. No figures have come forward from the Minister as to the establishment of his Department. I believe that the figures when they are revealed will show a great number of resignations by previous members of the Department of Immigration as this disillusionment, frustration and concern about career prospects takes its toll. This development, I believe, is not in the best interests of Australia. We have a Department staffed by people with great dedication and great expertise who have brought considerable credit to our country. 
Let us look at the migration policies of the present Government. Since that infamous day, 2 December 1972, as in so many other areas of Government administration, we have had promises without performance. Policies have been chopped and changed. We have had indecision on a grand scale. Some innovations have been introduced. But one must be terribly careful with respect to innovations in the migrant area. The results of changing policies which affect migrants and migration matters are often not worked out until many years in the future. It is here that the Government is now reaping the whirlwind, as it were. Some of the policies which it has introduced have not turned out as . the theorists would have us believe. I instance one examplethe easy visa system. This system was not introduced by the present Minister; it was introduced by his predecessor. It has resulted in a great number of problems being experienced by officers of his Department as people take advantage of what was meant to be a goodwill gesture and an attempt to break down red tape. In fact, it has not worked out that way. People from a number of countries have taken advantage of the easy visa system. In fact, I believe that Australia now has a greater number than ever before of illegal migrants in this country. 
There are foreign policy implications about any nation's immigration policies. What has . happened, unfortunately as a result of the application of the Government's policies, is that the hopes of many people have been falsely raised. Here I instance some of the recent visits by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  overseas. I refer particularly to his visits to the people of the Philippines and Burma. A great number of applications seeking entry to Australia have come from people in Burma and the Philippines. Economic conditions and other circumstances obtaining in Australia have meant that the majority of these people will be disappointed. Rather than building up international goodwill by the application of the new policies of the Labor Government in immigration, in fact we are running the very real risk that international goodwill will be broken down. The chopping and changing in the estimated number of immigrants to come to 
Australia each year have meant that the lives of many, many people are being needlessly unsettled. They make their applications; they receive initial encouragement; then, due to a sudden whim on the part of the Government, the numbers are changed and these people are disappointed. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, 10 minutes is an extremely short time in which to speak on this subject. I cannot go into it in any great detail. I would Uke the Minister to give me some indication when we can expect the Borrie report. This most important report was instituted by the previous Government and the inquiry has been going on for some time now. The report was due earlier this year. The previous Minister for Immigration in this Government gave a guarantee that it would be brought in earlier this year. We have still not received it. Will the Minister give some clear indication when we can expect to receive the Borrie report? Will he also give us an opportunity to have a full scale debate on this important area of immigration policy? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do, inadvertently. On page 3064 of yesterday's Hansard there appear some phrases which are attributed to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  They should have been attributed to me. The honourable member was sitting beside me. I know that Hansard does a tremendous job, but we were sitting close together at the time and Hansard must have been mistaken. 

The phrases in question are as follows. After  Mr Cameron  said: 
The Permanent Head of my Department denies that and I deny it. I knew nothing about the instruction. 
I then said: 
I was told in Sydney. 
Hansard records  Mr Cameron  as saying: 
You were told in Sydney? 
I then said: 
By one of your departmental people. 

 Mr Cameron went on to say something and I said: 
Quite separately. 
I should like the Hansard to be altered, if possible. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many overseas students holding that status are in Australia at present. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many overseas students left Australia to reside overseas during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January-30 June 1974. 
2 ) What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons who have come to Australia to study have been given authority to remain in Australia with residence during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January- 30 June 1974. 
2 ) What is their nationality and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons were admitted to Australia for education purposes during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1 974. 
What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons entered Australia illegally in the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1974. 
What was their nationality and where were they born. 
What was their method of entry. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons were deported from Australia because they had entered illegally in the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period I January to 30 June 1974. 
What was their nationality and where were they born. 
3 ) What was their method of entry. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many illegal entrants were granted permission to remain in Australia during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1 974. 
2 ) What was their nationality and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many visitors have been deponed from Australia in the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1974. 
What was their nationality and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many overseas students are in Australia illegally. 
) What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many overseas visitors to Australia were found to have taken employment in the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period I January to 30 June 1974. 
) What was their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people granted authority to visit Australia during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period I January to 30 June 1 974 are now here illegally. 
What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons were granted permission to visit Australia during the years 1972 and 1973 and during the period 1 January to 30 June 1974. 
What is their nationality, and where were they born. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Has  Mr Neville  Curtis been granted a temporary entry permit. 
If so, was the decision to grant a temporary entry permit taken personally by the Minister. 
3 ) On what grounds was temporary entry granted. 
Has he applied for residence in Australia. 
) Has consideration of this application been accelerated. 
Have all the normal requirements been observed in consideration of the application. 
Has permanent residency been granted to  Mr Curtis. 
-As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said, the Opposition has considered the amendment moved by the Minister on behalf of the Government and agrees with it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I want to raise a subject which not a great number of the Australian Labor Party members of the House have raised, and that is the present rate of unemployment in their electorates. I was reminded of it particularly this morning when we heard about the impending overseas trip of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to some delightful places during the Christmas period. I wonder how he will feel when he thinks of the hundreds of thousands of people in Australia who are unemployed and whose Christmas will not be nearly as delightful and whose surroundings certainly will not be nearly as delightful. I am reminded very much at this stage of the promises made by the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in relation to the 2 subjects of inflation and unemploymentpromises which I believe hoodwinked the Australian public as recently as May of this year when we all remember the Prime Minister saying that he was the only one in the world who could cut inflation by one-third and that inflation and unemployment in Australia did not march hand in hand. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister has, since that period, been quoted as saying that the Government had unemployment under control and he did not think that it would get out of hand. The fact is that at the moment Australia has the worst inflation in living memory. It certainly has the worst unemployment since those dreadful days of the depression. Today I want to mention firstly the unemployment figures for my own electorate of Warringah because I believe it is of the utmost importance that all Australians should be aware of the very serious nature of this unemployment, not just in the short term, with the short term hardships which many hundreds of thousands of people will be experiencing, but also and perhaps more significantly in the long term prospects of thousands upon thousands of school leavers. I mention this fact in relation to Warringah because I can remember very clearly the enormous hubbub that was made in 1972 by the then Opposition before it came to power about the unemployment statistics that then obtained throughout Australia. 
Yesterday I telephoned the local Commonwealth Employment Service agency in Manly to check the relationship between the figures in 1972, when the present Government was in opposition and when it made such a fuss about the unemployment situation, with the position today when the Australian Labor Party in government does not say quite so much about unemployment. In September 1972 in Warringah a total of 172 people were registered as unemployed. In September 1974, under the Labor Government, the figure was 308. In October 1972 the total number of registered unemployed in Warringah was 135. In October 1974, under the Labor Government, the total was 484.. Another aspect, apart from the numbers involved, is that there was a downward trend from September to October 1972 from 172 to 135. The trend in 1974 is upwards. In other words, the number of unemployed is rising. In fact it has risen by nearly two-thirds in that one month between September and October this year. I have no reason not to believe that the figures which will be revealed for November will be significantly higher again and that the December figures will be significantly higher than the November figures. 
The other interesting and horrifying thing about the situation at the moment is that in September 1972 in Warringah the number of registered vacancies was 138 and in October 1972 it had risen to 150. So whilst the number of unemployed people was dropping during that period in 1972 the number of vacancies available was rising. What do we find this year? In September 1974 the total vacancies were 89, and in October 1974, 76. Not only have we a rising unemployment rate but also at the same time we have a lowering of the number of vacancies available. As I have said, the position will get worse because many businesses within the peninsular area are keeping staff on until the Christmas period so that people will not be thrown out of work a month or so prior to Christmas. Businesses will retain their employees for as long as they can but they cannot keep them on after the Christmas period. I have spoken to a number of employers in the area. Whilst at present they are losing money by retaining their employees they cannot continue to do so and in the months ahead they will be laying employees off. Consequently we will find that the registered unemployment figure for the Warringah area- I think this will be reflected throughout Australia but today I am concerned about people in my own electorate-will rise dramatically in both November and December. I hope the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  sleeps with an easy conscience as he travels the world at the taxpayers' expense. I was told today that his trip will cost about $750,000. I hope he realises that a great number of husbands and wives with many commitments to meet- who have many of the necessities of life, such as refrigerators, on hire purchase, the repayments for which they must maintain- will be seriously disadvantaged and will not have a very happy Christmas. 
I am greatly concerned also about school leavers, to whom I referred at the commencement of my speech. Many potential school leavers, of course, will return to school for another year. This will have a number of effects. Places will not be available in school for children coming on, additional burdens will be imposed on the teaching staff and additional finance will be necessary to maintain the education system. Also it will deprive a lot of these young people of the opportunity to commence their careers in the adult world at a time which is of enormous significance for them. There is, of course, the Regional Employment Development Scheme operating. I join with other honourable members in saying that it is a good thing that we have the RED scheme but if we had the employment opportunities that we should have in Australia there would be no need for it. I have taken up this issue with the Mayor of Manly with a view to putting forward proposals to cope with the rising tide of unemployment in the Warringah area. Much work, resulting from the battering the electorate took following serious storms which hit it and other areas of Sydney earlier this year, needs to be done. But it is a sad state of affairs in Australia, which is still a lucky country- the only unlucky aspect at present is the Government it has had imposed upon it- that people will be out of work this Christmas and school leavers will not be able to take up the employment they wish to engage in. They will be forced to return to school in many cases and this will throw additional burdens on the education system. As I said earlier, I hope that the Prime Minister, in his swanning around the world, sleeps easily at night when he. considers what is happening in Warringah and throughout Australia- people out of work, finding it hard to maintain their financial commitments, and children being denied opportunities. This is a situation Australia should not be facing. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of a report that Australia's $25,000 a year community relations officer,  Mr Grassby,  claims that he is handling more than 300 problems a week from troubled migrants? Is he also aware that the same report carries the claim that this gentleman sees his job as partially relieving some of the burdens that would have eventually fallen to Ministers and that, in making recommendations, he is often able to cut corners where a departmental officer would stick to the letter of the law? Does this gentleman have any statutory authority to cut corners or to make any commitments on behalf of the Government in relation to migrant problems? Does he have any authority to take any actions not available to other public servants, particularly those in the Department of Labor and Immigration, who continually deal with the problems of migrants? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Iranians are migrating to Australia each year. 
Is any increase in the level of Iranian immigration contemplated by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Australian Government be making arrangements to bring Greek-Cypriot female refugees to Australia. 
) If so, how many refugees are involved. 
Who will select the refugees. 
On what basis will refugee status be granted. (4) How will the refugees be brought to Australia. 
Where will the refugees be accommodated (a) prior to travel to Australia and (b) when they arrive in Australia. 
Will the parents, particularly of the younger girls, be accompanying them to settle in Australia. 
What arrangements will be made for schooling and training of the refugees. 
Who will be legally responsible for the welfare of the refugees following arrival in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons have been sponsored for entry to Australia from (a) Hong Kong, (b) the Philippines, (c) Burma, (d) India, (e) Bangladesh, (f) Sri Lanka, (g) Malaysia, (h) Singapore, (i) Indonesia, (j) Fiji, (k) the United Kingdom, ( 1 ) Sweden, (m) Germany, (n) Spain, (o) Italy, (p) Greece, (q) Turkey, (r) Lebanon, (s) Chile and (t) Iran. 
2 ) What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons have been granted migrant visas for entry to Australia from (a) Hong Kong, (b) the Philippines, (c) Burma, (d) India, (e) Bangladesh. (f) Sri Lanka. 
Malaysia, (h) Singapore, (i) Indonesia, (j) Fiji, (k) the United Kingdom, (I) Sweden, (m) Germany, (n) Spain, (o) Italy, (p) Greece, (q) Turkey, (r) Lebanon, (s) Chile and (t) Iran. 
) What is their nationality, and where were they born. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether entry visas have been granted during the period since the Labor Party came to power to representatives of the PRG and African liberation movements. Has an entry visa recently been refused to a member of the South African Cricket Board of Control? Will the Minister explain to the House why representatives of organisations actively pursuing policies of warfare and terrorism are more acceptable as visitors to Australia than the representative of an organisation devoted to pursuing the sport of cricket- moreover, a representative who has actively promoted anti-racialism in cricket in South Africa? 
Before commencing on the matter of public importance I would like to thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for allowing this debate to come forward. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  administers, amongst other Acts, the Migration Act 1958-73. Sub-section ( 1 ) of section 8 of that Act states: 
Nothing in this division applies in relation to the entry into Australia of an immigrant being- 
And then it goes through paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d). Paragraph (e) states: 
A person who- 
is for the time being exempted, by instrument under the hand of the Minister, from the requirements of this Division relating to entry permits; or 
is included in a class of persons who are for the time being so exempted, not being a person in respect of whom a declaration is in force under the next succeeding sub-section. 
It is important to note the words 'by instrument under the hand of the Minister'. This is a section which allows the Minister to exercise his judgment in exempting certain classes of people from the need to have valid entry permits when seeking to enter Australia. Parliamentarians from Commonwealth countries are amongst those who may be exempted from the requirement to possess valid entry permits. 
The section, I believe, needs closer examination. Firstly, it is not mandatory upon the Minister to allow such exemptions, and thus it would seem to me that any exemption, once permitted, can just as easily be withdrawn. Secondly, I believe the intention of the section is clear. It confers a privilege upon those classes of people mentioned, but it does so, I would submit, only so long as those so privileged freely and openly display their status when seeking to enter the country. In the case of parliamentarians, I believe that the privilege is clearly designed to facilitate their travel and entry to Australia so long as they freely and openly proclaim their parliamentary status. The privilege is reciprocated in other Commonwealth countries. I believe the intention is clear- it is mutually advantageous for Commonwealth parliamentarians to visit each other's countries. It is certainly implied that the privilege is not predicated on the belief that any Commonwealth parliamentarian will use the privilege to avoid the laws of the land being visited or as a lever to seek citizenship of that land. On the contrary, I believe it is clearly based on the belief that the parliamentarian so privileged will not abuse that privilege and he or she wil merely be a short term visitor to the country being visited unless, of course, previous arrangements have been made. 
This brings me to the so called Stonehouse affair. The facts of the case concerning  Mr Stonehouse  's entry to Australia are well known. They have been canvassed freely in the Press. But I believe they bear repeating.  Mr Stonehouse  travelled to Australia in November of last year. He travelled not as  Mr Stonehouse  but as Joseph Arthur Markham. There are 2 main factors involved here. Firstly,  Mr Stonehouse  did not openly and freely proclaim himself as John Stonehouse, M.P., member of the British House of Commons, when he sought to enter Australia. He travelled under another name. He therefore did not seek the privilege accorded to a visiting Commonwealth parliamentarian. He remained in Australia under the name of Markham and possibly other names until he was arrested by the Victorian Police shortly before Christmas. I have said that he did not come here as a politician. A report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 21 January 1975 quotes  Mr Stonehouse  as saying: 
I am not here as a politician - 
I ask honourable members to note those words- 
I came to escape all the hypocrisies of English politics. 
He therefore clearly could not be said to have justified by his behaviour the granting of special privileges due to his position as a member of parliament. He came here as an ordinary visitor and there is a clear argument that he should be treated as an ordinary visitor. 
The other factor involved, and clearly a more serious one, is that  Mr Stonehouse  not only travelled under an assumed name, but also obtained his travel documents and his entry permit by the provision of false information. He assumed the name of a dead man and accordingly entered Australia by presenting false documents to a migration officer. Other people have been in the past, and still are at the present time, deported for this offence as prohibited migrants. The Minister has said that this offence in  Mr Stonehouse  's case is not important because he,  Mr Stonehouse,  as a member of parliament did not need an entry permit anyway. To my mind this is hardly rational.  Mr Stonehouse  clearly did not wish to travel as an M.P. He knew his travel documents were obtained by the provision of false information. Accordingly, he must have known he was breaking the law when he sought entry to Australia by proffering these documents he knew to be falsely obtained. He therefore clearly and consciously abrogated any rights and privileges he could expect as an M.P. Without extenuating circumstances, to seek them later is an act of hypocrisy; to grant them is an act of weakness. 
But let us carry the story forward. The Minister having granted  Mr Stonehouse  his privileges as an M.P., we then find that  Mr Stonehouse  is using those privileges as a lever to seek the granting of permission for him to stay on in Australia with permanent status. I spoke earlier of the obvious intention of the privileges granted to visiting members of parliament. Just as obviously  Mr Stonehouse  is abusing that intention. He does not wish to remain a member of Parliament. He has stated so specifically many times. He wishes only to remain in Australia. In the 'Australian' on 18 January 1975  Mr Patterson  who is  Mr Stonehouse  's solicitor said: 

 Mr Stonehouse has repeatedly stated that he has no desire to leave Australia. He wants only to remain here and make a new life and home for himself and his family. 
To my mind this shows that  Mr Stonehouse  knows the Minister will not take action in the absence of a request for extradition from the United Kingdom so long as  Mr Stonehouse  remains a member of Parliament. He therefore refuses to resign his seat in the House of Commons until his request to be allowed to remain here is acceded to. The 'Sydney Morning Herald ' on 30 January states: 

 Mr Short read a letter from  Mr Stonehouse  in which he said that he would co-operate fully with the select committee, even though he did not intend to return to the United Kingdom. 

 Mr Short is the Leader of the House of Commons. This clearly is an abuse of the privilege extended to  Mr Stonehouse  as an act of grace by the Commonwealth Parliament. What can be done about this? Much as the Minister would like it, the question is not how the House of Commons should act in relation to one of its own members; the question clearly lies with the Australian Government and its Minister for Labor and Immigration. The entry privilege in Australia is not granted by the British Government; it is granted by the Australian Government. Any decision, therefore, arising out of an abuse of that privilege granted by the Australian Government must be made by the Australian Government. As embarrassing as it might be for the British Government, it is not its role to solve our problems for us. 
I ask the House to consider the possibility that some Commonwealth Governments around the world, faced with a similar problem with respect to one of its own members, might refuse to make a decision about the status of one of its own members. This Australian Government and this Minister would, on present performances, take no action and would be shown clearly as being weak and inept. The position is further compounded by the controversy surrounding  Mr Stonehouse  's financial affairs. It must be said and repeated that British justice requires a man to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. 
The Minister is using this argument for not taking any action against  Mr Stonehouse.  He is quite right to use that argument about .being innocent until proven guilty. In my mind there are no formal charges laid against  Mr Stonehouse  although I believe writs involving large sums of money have been issued against him. So far as we know, despite his arrest by the Victorian police,  Mr Stonehouse  has committed no crime in Australia except that offence relating to his entry into the country. This really is immaterial. The fact is that  Mr Stonehouse,  under an assumed name, did commit an offence against the migration laws. He has shamelessly used his privileges granted by the Minister to avoid the consequences of that offence. Even if  Mr Stonehouse  was not a member of Parliament the Minister is still empowered to ignore his offence and to grant his request for permanent residency. 
The fact remains, however, that very real doubts have been cast on the propriety of  Mr Stonehouse  's business activities. Two detectives from New Scotland Yard have already visited Australia. A special inquiry has been set up by  Mr Stonehouse  's colleague in the House of Commons, the present United Kingdom Minister for Trade. This inquiry is proceeding but may take some time to complete. A report in the Melbourne 'Age' of 14 February stated that 2 Government appointed inspectors were preparing to fly to Australia to interview runaway British politician John Stonehouse about his business affairs. Four companies are involved- the London Capital Group, which is a second line bank; Global Imex, a trading company; Connoisseurs of Claret, and Export Promotion and Consultancy Services. It is not realistic to suggest that  Mr Stonehouse  would be subjected to unfair treatment by the legal processes in the United Kingdom. Nor is it realistic to argue that he would be victimised by the United Kingdom authorities. Therefore, a request for permanent residence based on the argument that  Mr Stonehouse  would be unfairly treated in the United Kingdom is, in my view, plain nonsense. 
There remains another factor. It has been widely reported that  Mr Stonehouse  has been undergoing psychiatric treatment and that this extraordinary behaviour resulted from the stress and tension of public and business life.  Mr Stonehouse  himself advanced this argument. I have great sympathy for the man if this is the case. However, 2 points arise from it. Firstly, if, as  Mr Stonehouse  argues, his actions in travelling to Australia in the manner he did were brought about by his psychiatric disturbance, it is clearly not valid to argue that his actions, with respect to his manipulation of his status as a member of Parliament following his discovery in Australia, are similarly explainable.  Mr Stonehouse  has stated quite clearly that he is using his position as a member of Parliament to stay in Australia whilst awaiting the Minister's decision. Secondly, if  Mr Stonehouse  is in need of continuing psychiatric treatment then that treatment surely is available in the United Kingdom. 
The Opposition has not raised this issue publicly before. We have believed that the Minister was in a difficult position and, with respect to some aspects of the case, that initially he acted quite correctly. However, time has gone on and more and more evidence has come forward suggesting that  Mr Stonehouse  will continue to abuse privileges granted to him by the established custom of succeeding Australian governments. Additionally, this Australian Government is presently taking harsh action against visitors from many countries who have overstayed their visitors visas or who have worked in Australia despite signing an agreement not to do so. Understandably, these people and the people of ethnic communities throughout Australia who have witnessed the actions of this Minister against, in many cases, their friends and former countrymen, feel affronted and discriminated against. 
Australians everywhere are fed up with the man who is prepared unscrupulously to use a privilege granted to him to seek to gain permanent entry to this country at a time when so many others are being refused.  Mr Stonehouse  obviously will not go until required to do so. The Minister for Labor and Immigration has the power to enforce that requirement and he should exercise it. 
I must say at the outset in raising this matter tonight that I have not had time to contact the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  to inform him that I would be speaking on it because it has just been brought to my notice that the opportunity to speak is available to me. I wish to raise a subject which concerns very greatly a large number of people within my electorate of Warringah and, I am sure, within the electorates of a great many other honourable members. I refer to the taxation deductions allowable for the payment of rates. As we all know, the Labor Government has set a maximum amount of $300 as the allowable taxation deduction for land and water rates that a ratepayer may claim against his total income tax. This is affecting a great number of people in many electorates, and most particularly is it affecting a great number of people within my own electorate. Therefore, I think that the matter is of extreme importance and I wish to bring it to the attention of the House tonight. The various councils operating within Australia have, I am sure, brought this matter to the notice of successive Treasurers. I know that my own councilsthe Manly Council, the Mosman Council and the Warringah Shire Council- have all made representations directly to the Government and to the Treasurer, and have also made representations through me. On their behalf I have brought this matter to the attention of successive Treasurers, all to no avail. I have here a copy of a letter dated 14 August 1 974 sent to the previous Treasurer, now the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  from the Manly Municipal Council. I think it sums up pretty well the feeling of the ratepayers in the electorate of Warringah. It says: 
The Council has been concerned with the maximum amount of $300 for land and water rates that a ratepayer may claim as a taxation deduction. 
That limit was brought in by the Australian Labor Party Government in the 1973-74 Budget. The Council has lodged a protest with the Federal Treasurer and, as I have stated, representations have been made through me. The letter goes on to say: 
Apan from acknowledgments of the Council's protest no further replies have been received. 
Here we come to the crux of the problem. The Council goes on to state: 
In view of the inflation that has occurred over the past year - 
Remember that this letter was written in August last year and remember that the inflation rate has accelerated even further because of the insubstantial and unrealistic policies of the present Government - and the resultant increasing costs to Councils in providing services, this Council is even more concerned at the iniquitous situation caused by the maximum allowable tax deduction of $300. The overall average rate payable per assessment in the Municipality of Manly for 1974 (including strata titled flats) and including garbage charges is $165.15, while the rate paid by a typical ratepayer on the most frequently occurring valuation is $154.13. These figures do not include water, sewerage and drainage rates paid to the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and when their rates are added to the Council rate it takes the total over the maximum allowable as a tax deduction. 
Remember that this is the average rate paid by the typical ratepayer in this electorate. This means that a great number of people would be paying well in excess of that. The letter continues: 
The Council considers that this situation is extremely bad as it represents discrimination against one section of the community, namely the person who owns or is purchasing a property in which he lives. The limitation imposed will not affect the property owner who derives his income from several properties as it has always been a legitimate deduction in such cases to deduct all outgoings on the income producing property. The present limitation reacts harshly on the young ratepayer who in all probability is struggling to secure a home for himself and his family. 
That is the view of the Manly Municipal Council. It parallels the view of the Mosman Municipal Council, it parallels the view of the Warringah Shire Council and I am sure it parallels the view of a great number of other councils throughout Australia. 
Let us look at the people it affects. As the Manly Municipal Council pointed out, it certainly affects the young ratepayer who is attempting to buy his or her home. It also affects- to my mind this is a more iniquitous result of the allowable deduction- those people whom this Labor Government pretends to represent- those people on fixed incomes, those people who are least able to cope with the inflationary pressures let loose in the Australian society by the policies of the present Labor Government. A great number of people on fixed incomes live within the electorate of Warringah. It is a very pleasant electorate. It takes in Mosman, Manly and other areas. As people who have visited this area know, it is a very well established and very old area.There are a great number of people within it - 
Did the honourable member say 'affluent'? 
If he cares to have a look at the people who live within the electorate of Warringah he will find a great number of people who live on pensions and superannuation payments. 
The honourable member should be complaining. He should be doing something to protect them and to look after them rather than interjecting here. These people are grossly affected by the higher charges imposed upon them by individual councils. Because they have no opportunity to offset the effects of inflation on their incomes they are forced into a very difficult situation. It can be said that these people, particularly the older ones, can sell their properties, which are valuable properties, and move elsewhere. But why should they? These people have lived in this area and have brought up their children there and all their friends live in this area. Why should they be forced out of their houses by the policies of the Government which alleges that it protects the interests of the smaller people in the community? That is absolute nonsense. 
This situation has been brought about by 2 particular policies of the present Government. It has been brought about by the ceiling of $300 on the amount of deduction allowable and it has been exacerbated by the economic policies of the present Government which have led to an unprecedented increase in the inflation rate, with a consequent effect upon the costs incurred by various councils throughout Australia. We are not talking about rich land owners. We are talking about the people who are battling to make a living, the people who are battling to pay off their own homes, the people who are battling to stay alive when their incomes have been reduced because of the extreme inflationary situation brought about by this Government. These are the people about whom I am concerned. The Government should be concerned about them. If the Government has any concept of what it means to these people to live in a society or district where they have spent all their lives, where they have brought up their children, where they have their friends and where they are faced with these ever-increasing and crippling costs, I appeal to the Government, to the Treasurer and to a man who professes to have some humanity, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who is at the table, to look again and to reconsider the decision to limit the total amount deductible for rates to $300. It is unrealistic in the present inflationary times. It is having an extremely deleterious effect upon the lives and the social and economic well-being of a great number of Australians. Tonight I am speaking particularly about the electors of Warringah, but the situation applies far more widely than just in Warringah. If this Government professes to look after these people who are not able to look after themselves, it should quickly reconsider this decision to limit the deduction to $300 with a view to making it far more realistic. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
I certainly do,  Mr. Speaker.  I would like the Minister for Labor and Immigration to substantiate that statement. I had no approach from his private secretary; there is nothing in writing. What he said is simply incorrect. 
Opposition members- Name him! Name him! 
That the honourable gentleman be suspended from the services of this House. 
Question put: 
That the Minister for Labor and Immigration be suspended from the service of the House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During debate today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  mentioned my name and the events of last Thursday. As I understood him, he said that the honourable member for Warringah subsequently admitted that he was completely wrong and the Minister was completely right. I have here the statement I released on the evening of Thursday 27 February, and because this matter was brought up by the Prime Minister and was also alluded to by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I just tell the House what I did say. That statement reads: 
This morning the Minister for Labor and Immigration alleged that I had been offered access to the fie on  Mr John  Stonehouse and had refused. He later issued copies of documents received from his private secretary. 
The facts are simply these: Last Wednesday, purely by chance, I encountered  Mr Cameron's  private secretary in the corridor of Parliament House. We talked of various matters, amongst them the case of  Mr Stonehouse.  I mentioned  Mr. Cameron's  talks with the British High Commissioner and went on to say that I may be requesting access to the Stonehouse file in the future. My recollection is that  Mr Cameron  's secretary replied that he thought that my request, if made, may be acceded to. I replied that I probably wouldn 't ask for it just yet. 
No approach was made at the initiative of  Mr Cameron.  I had a chance conversation with his private secretary. There was no offer to make the file available. 
I point out that the private secretary had no right to make that offer. 

 Mr Cameron has attempted to divert attention from his thoroughly reprehensible action in the chamber this morning. By his defiance of the Speaker's request to apologize he precipitated one of the most unsavoury incidents in Australian parliamentary history. 
-This Bill, as no doubt the whole of the Australian population realises now, relates to family law but I think really that is a bit of a misnomer because chiefly the Bill relates to divorce. I would not say that the Bill was wrongly named but I do think that it is a slightly misleading title to give the Bill because what we are essentially considering here is the dissolution of marriage and the legal framework relating to the dissolution of marriage. When one thinks of the legal framework I believe it is important that we note that the law really has 2 functions. One is to regulate in the public arena the affairs of man to ensure the orderly conduct of society. The second function, and I believe a most important function, is to provide a guide to an acceptable public attitude. This Bill is principally about the family. I believe that the family is still the basic unit of society despite the changes in the extent of its role and the nature of its role over the ages. There is no doubt that the role of the family has changed quite significantly over the ages and I think that it would be unwise and unreal not to acknowledge this, but if one acknowledges as I do that the family is still the basic unit of society then it also follows that marriage is an essential part of the family relationship because marriage is a public avowal of the relationship between 2 people and the rights and obligations that they both assume. If one accepts that, I believe one also should accept that an important part of marriage is the public statement of the undertaking of obligations by both partners to that marriage. 
If the family unit is still seen as the basic unit of society and marriage is basic to the establishment of that unit then it surely follows that the dissolution of marriage should not be countenanced lightly nor unnecessarily encouraged. On the other hand, of course, we must acknowledge that marriages are not all made in heaven. They do fail and there must be some legal framework which provides for the dissolution of marriages when obviously the intent and the structure of the marriage have failed. Marriages do fail for a multiplicity of reasons. Parties to those failed marriages, I believe, should have access to procedures allowing a dissolution of the marriage and those procedures should be available to all equally with no advantage to be gained by virtue of wealth or rank. I believe that once proceedings are instituted delays should be minimised. The dissolving of a marriage should not result in either partner of the marriage being unfairly treated either at the time of dissolution or subsequently and most particularly the children of a marriage which is being dissolved must be disadvantaged to the minimum extent. I believe it is impossible for children not to be disadvantaged at all because it is a most unfortunate thing particularly for the children of marriages when marriages do dissolve, but we must take every possible care and ever possible action to ensure that the children of failed marriages are disadvantaged to the minimum extent. 
In considering the dissolution of a marriage it surely is relevant that the attitudes and actions of the partners to the marriage during the period that the marriage survives should be considered and taken into account. Another point I would like to make in relation to the dissolution of a marriage is that during the divorce proceedings the privacy of individuals should be protected as far as possible, but I believe one can look into this statement a little bit further. Whilst privacy should be protected as far as possible I do not think it is absolutely necessary that all marriage dissolution proceedings should be held in private. That seems to me to be a departure from our common law practice which should not be encouraged. On the other hand, I believe that those responsible for overseeing the proceedings of marriage dissolution should have the right if they so wish to order that proceedings be held in private. 
Taking into account these broad general rules which i believe should apply in the dissolution of a marriage, we then should look at this Family Law Bill to ascertain whether it fulfils these aims and I do not believe it does in its present form. I believe that one of its chief weaknesses is that it does not give rise to the maintenance or the development of a public attitude towards the rights and obligations of marriage. I believe particularly that clause 48 of the Bill, which we all acknowledge is the chief clause in the Bill, is open to a good deal of question. Clause 48 sets out the means whereby a marriage may be dissolved. I believe that by the way it sets it out, rightly or wrongly, it develops in the public mind a largely negative attitude towards the institution of marriage and that attitude is one which suggests that 12-months separation is all that is needed to obtain a divorce and that divorce can be sought by either partner without the consent of the other. It suggests that the actions and the activities of either of the partners during the marriage are completely incidental. Essentially in my view it does not encourage an attitude by the partners really to live up to their publicly stated obligations and seek to make that marriage work. 
Having said that, people may believe that I find clause 48 too permissive. I do not. On the contrary, I believe it seeks to do too much too quickly, and in fact is unnecessarily restrictive in certain cases. In my view it is far too simplistic in its present drafting. Whether the framers of the Bill like it or not marriages break up for a multiplicity of reasons and it is unreal to talk about no fault situations. The Bill itself recognises this in clause 75(2 )(n) which provides that in respect of maintenance the court must take into account any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. So all it does is to transfer that section of the dissolution of a marriage relating to fault provisions from' the actual dissolving of the marriage to the maintenance argument. It really shifts it from one point to another in the process and I believe it is wrong for the protagonists of the Bill in its present form to say that it eliminates fault from marriage breakup decisions. It does not; it merely transfers it. 
We are all aware of marriage situations where for a number of reasons, such as cruelty and things which I would call intolerable conduct, a partner may require- and I believe should have- a divorce granted more quickly than is allowed for in this Bill. This would mean that irretrievable breakdown as specified in the Bill should be signified by some criteria other than the 12 months provision. I do not regard this proposition as in any way absurd or difficult. I mean that most Acts relating to family law throughout similar countries to Australia have more than one criterion for the dissolution of a marriage. I do not regard, as I said, the proposition that I put forward as in any way absurd or difficult. I believe it is necessary to add a needed flexibility to the Bill. 
I believe that a one-year separation period followed by an application for dissolution by only one partner is insufficient. I realise that this is a question of subjective judgment, but I believe that it would be just as realistic and certainly it would demonstrate what to me would be a more acceptable attitude to marriage and its dissolution if both parties were required to consent to the application when seeking a dissolution after one year's separation. I realise that there are traps in that situation, that people can bring pressure to bear to obtain this mutual consent situation. A situation could be written into the law whereby the judge presiding over the proceedings must be satisfied that no coercion was used or that both partners to the marriage, in giving their mutual consent, genuinely gave that consent and did desire the dissolution of the marriage. Should only one partner be seeking the dissolution then a period of 2 years separation, I believe, should be the criterion for demonstration of irretrievable breakdown. I, like a number of other people- like probably every honourable member in this House- have had a great number of submissions put to me relating to clause 48 and the length of time which should elapse before the commencement of separation proceedings upon which a marriage could be dissolved. One person rang the other evening claiming that marriage should never be dissolved on the application of only one partner and that if it was, one year was completely insufficient and that even 5 years, as presently obtains, was insufficient. 
I understand these points of view. I admit, of course, the right of these people to hold these points of view. Taking into account all the submissions I have had and my own response to them and my considered judgment, I believe that a 2-year separation on the application of only one partner would be sufficient. Once again, I come back to the question of public attitude to the question of marriage and its dissolution. Whilst it has been pointed out that the state has no place in the bedrooms of its citizens, nevertheless in my view the state has the responsibility to declare an attitude towards such matters as marriage and its dissolution. If the state did not have that responsibility it would not be necessary to have marriage laws at all. But, of course, it is necessary for the state to promote an attitude. I believe that what I suggested is not only more flexible and fairer to a great number of people but I also believe it would strengthen what I regard as a desirable public attitude towards marriage and its responsibilities. We cannot escape these responsibilities, and we should not be seen to be encouraging escape from these responsibilities. 
Another area of the Bill which concerns me relates to clause 72. 1 do not believe the intention of the Bill is clear. I am not a lawyer and perhaps, to lawyers, it is clear, but to a layman I do not think it is clear. Clause 72, as it is presently drafted, gives the unmistakable impression that each partner is liable to sustain the other partner only if the other partner is unable to sustain herself or himself. This could mean that the male partner of a childless marriage has no obligation to sustain his wife if she does not wish to work. It could also mean that the wife may have to sustain herself after the children of the marriage have reached 1 8 years of age if she could be said to have the physical and mental capacity to do so and if, of course, her husband requires her to do so. This is a real change from what I understand to be the obligations of husbands to marriages. I have always understood that the husband of a marriage had a real obligation to look after his wife, sustain her and keep her in the manner to which she was accustomed if he possibly could. This seems to me to present an attitude which would not encourage a husband to undertake that sort of responsibility. It would certainly, in my view, give him an acceptable argument not to live up to what I regard as his responsibilities. Once again, I believe it introduces a quite radical change in attitude and one which I could not support. I find it a most extraordinary proposition and one which, if it means what I believe it means, I could not support. 
I make it quite clear that I have no quarrel at all with wives who wish to work or sustain themselves. But to require them to do so when the husband may perfectly well be able to fulfil what I regard as his obligations seems to me, once again, to be unfair to the wife and again- I stress this- to develop what I regard to be an unacceptable future of marriage obligations. Whether many people like it or not the fact remains that a woman's capacity to work and earn is more likely to be adversely affected by marriage than is her husband's. The wife contributes enormously to the marriage by her role as a wife and mother- if she chooses to adopt the role of mother- and she should be entitled, in my view, to a reasonable expectation of financial support from her husband. Even if in practice the wife was not disadvantaged the words in the Bill give rise to an uncertainty which, I believe, is not in the best interests of the institution of marriage. 
These are 2 aspects of the Bill which I have chosen for some attention but there are a number of other aspects which cause me concern. Before I am accused of being a hopeless reactionary who is not aware of the extraordinary difficultiespersonal and financial- faced by men and women whose marriages have failed, let me hasten to add that I am strongly of the view that divorce law reform is urgently needed. I have set out initially to outline my views as to the main principles which I believe should guide divorce legislation. I also stress that reform is needed. What we in this House have to decide is whether this Bill achieves these reforms or whether it is capable of amendment to achieve desirable reforms. There are those who will oppose the Bill outright. That is their right.There are those who may say the Bill should be taken away and redrafted completely. I believe that this Bill does go some distance towards overcoming many of the problems faced by those people whose marriage has failed. 
I believe the Bill is capable of amendment. I have mentioned some of the areas in which I believe it should be amended. I support the passage of the second reading of the Bill as I believe the introduction of reform is necessary. This in no way should be taken as an unequivocal support of all the clauses of the Bill. What we must do is bring it forward to the Committee stage so that amendments which a number of honourable members propose to move- I could well be moving some amendments myself- can be considered. We must bring this matter to completion simply because reform is needed in divorce law. I believe this Bill has provided a very useful vehicle for informed public debate on the matters covered. Therefore, I will be voting for the passage of the second reading of the Bill. 
It was a great pity that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton)  chose to resume his speech tonight with some personal attacks on members of the Opposition and also on individuals outside this chamber. I do not think such action helps the cause to the conclusion which I believe we are all seeking to see achieved, that is, a diminution in any discrimination or racial prejudice which obtains in Australia. I wonder whether the honourable member in fact warned those honourable members whom he mentioned in his speech that he was going to draw attention to them in this way. If he did not do so, I hope that next time he proposes to indulge in this type of activity he will take the usual action of warning those people whom he is going to mention in this way of his intention. 
Let us deal with the Bill itself. The Government has introduced the Racial Discrimination Bill into this House after 3 Bills on the same subject had been introduced previously in the Senate. In the words of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  'The purpose of the Bill is to make racial discrimination unlawful in Australia and to provide an effective means of combatting racial prejudice in our country'. I notice that the Attorney-General is not in the chamber. That is a pity. I thought the second reading speech by the Attorney-General was totally inadequate and revealed not only an insensitiveness to the feelings which I believe could be easily aroused in the community as a whole by this Bill but also treated members of the Parliament on this side and on his own side with thinly veiled contempt. 
His speech almost totally lacked any detail of the intended structure and workings of the Act which will result. 
To substantiate this criticism, I believe one needs only to look at the second reading speech of the then Secretary of State for the Home Department in the House of Commons when that gentleman introduced the British Race Relations Bill in 1968.  Mr Callighan  spoke for 41 minutes, having reduced the length of his speech at the request of the  Speaker.  He went through the Bill in some detail and explained to all members the manner in which he saw the individual clauses of the Bill being interpreted. It would be a great advance if the Attorney-General and other Ministers would be more forthcoming and provide more information and fewer platitudes in their second reading speeches when introducing legislation. Debate in this chamber would be assisted and the role and function of Parliament would be enhanced. 
Before I look at the Bill in any detail I think some general statements are in order. We are dealing tonight with discrimination- not only racial discrimination but discrimination against people of different nationalities as well as of different races. It should be said at the outset that discrimination does exist in Australia just as it exists in every country in the world. I believe that we can legitimately divide discrimination into 2 broad categories. These are discriminatio by intent and discrimination by inadvertence. This distinction should be made. Whilst the effect on the victim is manifestly the same, that discrimination which comes about by inadvertence implies no underlying hostility on the part of the discriminator. This is important because if discrimination comes about through inadvertence there are no underlying community attitudes which have to be changed. We find that once this kind of action is publicly identified, public opinion will tend to support the development of public awareness against such discriminatory attitudes. 
I do not have any research figures to back up my assumption, but I believe that the great bulk of discrimination within Australia comes about not deliberately but by inadvertence. Obviously if this Bill does increase racial tensions, its operation will be counter-productive and the individuals it seeks to assist will be far worse off. It is therefore of not small importance to clearly establish that in broad terms the Bill is designed to protect individuals from situations of prejudice and disadvantage due to race rather than to suggest that confrontation should be encouraged or that solutions to problems should be sought through rigid legal process rather than by conciliation and compromise. Keeping that statement in mind, perhaps even greater stress should be placed on the educative provisions which are laid down in clause 20 of the Bill. 
It is in this regard that I feel some concern for the clauses of the Bill relating to civil proceedings. In my view, greater stress should be placed on the need to try all avenues of negotiation under the guidance of the commissioner or his agent before resorting to the courts of law. Apart from being a desired aim that understanding rather than mere solution be reached, such recourse to the courts, while the Bill fails to include provision for legal aid services, would be both expensive and a basic deterrent to many genuine plaintiffs. 
A further matter that should be investigated at the Committee stage is that the Bill carries with it an underlying presumption that all racial discrimination is deliberate, which I dispute. The Bill must clearly establish that it is not attempting to encroach upon an individual's rights or privilege to be, if we care to use the expression, 'frivolous'. I believe it is true that many cases of alleged discrimination are unintentional, careless and when they are pointed out, mostly regretted. In this case, the provision of clause 21 should be strengthened to ensure that misunderstandings do not arise. This is not a claim that there are not thousands of cases in Australia where individuals have been deliberately prejudiced or discriminated against due to race. I am merely pointing out that there are many situations where unintentional discrimination and racial intolerance do take place. These offenders should not be penalised to the same extent as wilful offenders and, furthermore, should not feel that a restraint on their liberty, as crass as it may be, is being applied. To this end I would encourage the House to develop further the educational provisions of the Bill. 
The objective we all desire- that of overcoming the radical prejudices and discriminations that characterise an uncultured society- must be sought as strenuously through the avenues of education and understanding on a broad general level as it is sought in post-event cases where discrimination has actually taken place and the courts have become involved. Ideally, of course, pre-emptive educational process would eventually be developed to the point where punitive measures were no longer required. Again, in relation to unintentional discrimination, it could well be that this style of discrimination is brought about by little more than a lack of understanding and awareness. A thorough educational program of pointing out our racial problems and difficulties in society would for the most part overcome those situations based on ignorance rather than malicious intent. On this base the educational punitive balance must be carefully observed and protected. It would be a great shame for the worthy ideals of this Bill if it were to be seen as yet another opportunity for the rather scaly finger of the law to further extend its ambit over individuals. Where deliberate and obvious breaches of Part II of the Bill are established there should certainly be adequate measures available to the courts, but not to the extent that the people are fearful of exercising their normal whims or desires. 
The Bill, in its philosophy, should be concerned with protecting individuals who are in some way in an oppressed or prejudiced minority; not with creating conflicts between cultural or ethnic societies or urging ideological or social confrontation, but with affording those individuals in the community who have for so long been denied any sort of recourse the opportunity to preserve the idea of equality of opportunity that has for so long been lauded but only sometimes practised. 
I am not a lawyer, and I am hesitant to enter into the legal aspects of the Bill, particularly with so many distinguished gentlemen of the law around me, but I would still like to commend clause 26 (c) of the Bill which virtually gives legislative effects to dicta handed down in the classic authorities on contracts mistakenly formed: Nemstas v. Nemstas Lee v. Ah Gee and, more recently, Gallo v. Gallo. For too long, because of the deficiencies in the common law, parties mistakenly entering into contract with little knowledge of the language have been virtually obligated in a non est factum situation, to agreements that can adversely affect them, generally financially, for many years. I am sure that this measure will be welcomed not only by the jurists among us but also by those migrant people yet to master the language as well. 
One should also note that the Bill covers only racial discrimination. To concentrate solely on racial discrimination is to run the risk of over.simplifying the issue of discrimination as a whole. It is discrimination of any kind which cannot and must not be tolerated in any society with pretensions of sophistication. Certainly racial discrimination is readily discernible and more easily demonstrable, but other areas of prejudice should not go unnoticed. Careful immigration programs and selection process of course are major factors in smooth racial inter-relations in Australia. In many ways we can be proud that apart from certain animosity in the Queensland canefields in the last century and resentment felt towards the Asian peoples generally during the gold rush days, Australia 's multi-cultural population has coexisted in remarkable friendship. It could well be established that even though there are many individual cases of discrimination, the Australian people have a basically good-spirited attitude to people from other nations. Therefore, I believe it is very important to consider the basis of immigration into a country when faced with problems such as those covered by the Bill. 
Problems of discrimination can be engendered by immigration policy. An essential precondition for the solution of such problems within a community such as Australia's is adequate control of immigration. But such control of itself does not solve any internal problems which already exist. All such control can do is prevent the problem from getting worse. Whilst there are plenty of jobs, plenty of houses and plenty of educational opportunities, problems of a discriminatory nature will be subdued. It is principally in adverse times that problems of a discriminatory nature surface. Australia has, as I have already mentioned, particularly since the Second World War conducted a massive campaign to seek and welcome migrants from a great number or countries. We have always been a multi-cultural society and we always will be because such a significant proportion of our population either came directly from, or have recent antecedents in, countries with their own strong cultural heritage. In the main, whilst many migrants will be able to complain of individual instances of prejudice or discrimination that they personally have experienced, Australia has developed with their help and effort, largely free from significant racial or cultural prejudice. 
One can agree or disagree with our immigration policies of the past but, taken in the broad and in no sense complacently, we have every reason to be enormously thankful for the capacity of newcomers to integrate and assist in the development of a fuller, more tolerant, more vigorous and more sophisticated Australian society. In my view it is essential that future immigration policies recognise the inherent sovereignty of the host country in the control of the movement of people into that country. As one distinguished speaker recently put it: 'Although free trade in citizens may no doubt be an ideal, it is an ideal impossible of accomplishment in the present state of the world'. 
I have spent some little time on immigration aspects of the Bill and I have pointed out that the control of the immigration flow, whilst essential, does not solve the problems already existing. One thinks particularly of the Aboriginal population. There can be no doubt that much remains to be done before we can all claim that for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal alike equality of opportunity exists, the prejudice and suspicion have been eliminated and that discrimination no longer exists in Australia. I believe that it would be asking far too much of this Bill to expect it to bring about those desirable situations by itself. There is no doubt in my mind that the law not only has the responsibility for outlining rules for the regulation of the behaviour of human beings in society but also has the social function of bringing about the realisation of certain human aims in society. The law has both a direct and an indirect function towards people. The latter should be to seek to instil an attitude, to mould or change people's feelings, opinions or behaviour. The stress placed on those two functions clearly determines the nature of the law. There is some argument which suggests that the preventive or deterrent role of the law should not be overemphasised; rather that the educative role, particularly in those fields of social relations, should gain more attention. It is with that background in mind that we should assess the structure and functions of the Racial Discrimination Bill as presented to the House. 
I would like to mention a small number of specific points in relation to the Bill. Before doing so I must reiterate that I heartily support its basic aims. Firstly, it should be clearly established in Part III that the evidence used in the preliminary part of investigations is not admissible in a later court hearing. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  did mention something along these lines during his second reading speech, but I do not believe that this has been brought out with sufficient clarity in the Bill. To avoid this important level of the complaint process reaching a star chamber situation such a provision must be incorporated, otherwise the implications of situations such as blackmail and standover tactics could well arise, which would render the most important aspect of the legislation- that is, the solution through conciliation- virtually useless. If that stage does fail, however, the courts must be approached without prior material so that in starting afresh both parties can rely on judicial impartiality. 
The Opposition's amendments, which will be presented in some detail later by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  will essentially require that conciliation procedures must be undertaken before any civil procedures are entered upon. These civil procedures require the conciliation procedures to have been unsuccessful. We will also seek to ensure that proceedings during the conciliation procedures are not admissible as evidence during later proceedings and also to ensure that the person making the complaint- I believe this is very important- and the nature of the complaint are known to the person being complained about. Similarly clause 10 of the Bill, which concerns the rights to equality before the law, is I believe somewhat confusing in its drafting in that it appears to discriminate in favour of a minority. That may be something of which people are in favour, but I believe that in the long term discrimination of any sort should be overcome. Merely to adjust the scales in favour of the lesser influence is only a timid and shortsighted readjustment of the existing situation. It does not really solve anything in the long term. 
I welcome the establishment of a Commission for Community Relations as I believe that personal communication and understanding should be the basis of any social interaction. I welcome any attempt to overcome discrimination against individuals who are badly done by or disadvantaged, particularly Australia's Aboriginal population. I welcome the opportunity being provided to fulfil the obligations that Australia has undertaken with the United Nations in relation to the international conventions on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. We must, however, remain cognisant of the need to avoid appearing to be encroaching upon the freedom of individuals, of the distinction between unintentional and wilful discrimination and of the need to ensure that the proposed conciliation procedures do not become an opportunity for persecution or character assassination. I reiterate that much can be gained by the passage of this Bill, bearing in mind the necessary modifications that we of the Opposition will outline, not only by Australia as a nation showing itself to be mature enough to tackle the problems of racial discrimination but also by each individual who has for so long been disadvantaged by the sad deficiencies in our present system. 
-The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  . continues to try to justify the introduction of Medicare and Medibank and like a number of the people on his side of the House he continues to put forward the misstatement that implicitly if not explicitly the Opposition Parties are seeking to oppose Medibank because we are worried about the doctors and the extent of the moneys which they will get either with Medibank or acting as they are at the moment. This is not the Opposition 's concern about Medibank. We are concerned about the standard of medical care which will be provided to the people of Australia. The standard of medical care which is provided to the people of any country which is suffering- I use the word advisedly- under a nationalised health scheme is something which should concern everybody. 
The cost to the taxpayer of this scheme is still not clearly delineated. It took questioning at some length from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to elicit finally from the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  some preliminary estimation of the cost of Medibank. Of course that cost has not yet been totally quantified but it looks like being in the order of $ 1,400m to $ 1,600m in the first year. That is a massive amount of taxpayers' money being expended in order to come up with a service which many people quite legitimately believe will be a lesser service to the general population of Australia. The cost to the taxpayer will be immense. 
There are some things which still concern a great number of people about Medibank. For instance, what about the additional costs which may be incurred by people who must have medical treatment? What is the position if they are not insured and wish to go into an intermediate or a private ward and they have to sustain the cost of that intermediate or private ward out of their own pocket? Will the money that they pay to the doctor or to the hospital still be tax deductible? 
It will be tax deductible. That has not been made clear and many people are very concerned about it. We know what happens with a nationalised health scheme. I, like many other people, have lived in Britian. I remember very clearly the 3-minute consultations which are the order of the day in general practitioners rooms, I remember the 3-year wait for non-urgent medical cases which is the order of the day under a nationalised health scheme. What about pensioner medical card holders? At present I believe that they are entitled to a 50c rebate on the amount of money that they pay to pharmacists. Under the proposed system how will pharmacists know who is and who is not entitled to the 50c rebate, because I believe that there is no provision on the Medibank card to detail the status of the holder of that card. These are some of the many things which will be quite awesome possible effects of the introductions of a nationalised health service into Australia. 
The other matter that I should like to raise tonight is the question of taxation generally throughout Australia and, at the same time, its relationship to the problem of inflation. It seems to me that the proper responsibilities of any national government require that that government should, firstly, guarantee the security of the nation and, secondly, guarantee the value of the money of the people of that nation. In both these areas- the security of the nation and the guaranteeing of the continued value of the people's money- this present Government has possibly the worst record of any government in living memory in Australia. Inflation is an insidious thing. In fact, it operates as indirect taxation because as people move up the taxation scale they pay a greater percentage of their income as taxation. 
We are seeing the destruction of the initiatives, ambitions and hopes of many Australians as they face the problems caused not only by the rampant inflation that is operating in Australia at the present time, but also by the increasingly heavy taxation burden that they have to bear. I believe that inflation can never be controlled while taxes are rising. There should be a diminution in the rate of taxation, both personal and corporate. This Government is destroying both personal and corporate initiatives. If you ask a number of people why they are taking more time off and why they are not working as much overtime as they used to work, the answer is inevitably the same- 'it is not worth our while to work overtime; it is not worth our while to work a little bit harder, it is not worth our while to invest more money in a particular undertaking which we seek to pursue'. The simple reason is that the rate of taxation which they have to pay on any income which accrues is prohibitive. As I have said, this is destroying both individual and corporate initiative. 
Whether we like it or not, even the Deputy Prime Minister has recently come to the conclusion that we need a private sector within Australia and that if we are to have a continued viable private sector it must have some hope, some opportunity, some initiative left to it to enable it and to encourage it to invest, capitalise and seek expansion. Under the present taxation rates, both corporate and personal, this initiative, this encouragement, simply will not come about and the whole community will suffer. We see other areas where this is also occurring. The Government has decided to limit to $300 the amount of taxation deduction for rates and taxes. It thinks that people who have to pay more than $300 - 
-I support very strongly the Opposition's attitude in relation to clause 23. In my speech in the second reading debate I stressed the fact that the law has a dual function. One aspect is to outline procedures under which people live and the other is to develop a community attitude towards desirable activities within society. The Opposition believes very strongly that this legislation 's chances of success will be enhanced if the population as a whole, the Australian society as a whole, sees it as a set of procedures which do all they can to bring about conciliation between parties between whom there is some disagreement, without adopting too legalistic a basis or framework. 
If clause 23 is allowed to remain in the Bill it will give people who have some dispute in relation to the matters covered by the Bill the opportunity to adopt 2 procedures at the same time. They can move for the conciliation procedures to take place and they also can move, as I understand it, at the same time for civil proceedings to be instituted. In my view and in the view of the Opposition, the conciliation procedures should be exhausted before civil proceedings are embarked upon. For the legal profession it may be nice to have the 2 things going at once, but this is not what we are after in this situation. Surely what we are after is a means whereby disputes can be settled as amicably as possible. 
Yesterday I spoke as strongly as I could on the fact that most racial discrimination in Australia, I believe, comes about through inadvertence. If my assumption is correct, those discriminatory acts which do come about through inadvertence could best be handled by the conciliation procedures. I believe it would hasten the process if our amendment were agreed to. It also would avoid the possibility of a great heap of litigation building up in the pipeline which may not necessarily build up if" the conciliation procedures are successful. We would make every effort to ensure that the conciliation procedures were successful. We certainly would not like to see civil remedies not being available to people who have a legitimate complaint, but we certainly would like to lay the stress at this stage upon the conciliation procedures. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has already said, it may be that something of this nature may need to be added subsequently. But let us see whether we can make the thing work without excessively legalistic frameworks at this stage. 
-I support the remarks of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  The point he has raised also has been brought to my attention. The honourable member says that he does not believe that it is the intention of the Government to bring about the situation to which he has adverted. It certainly is not our intention to deprive certain groups of any special advantages that in our opinion they quite properly have been given. I drew attention to this matter in my contribution to the second reading debate. I would like to add my voice to that of the honourable member for Mackellar. Certain groups within the community are concerned about that proviso. As the Bill is presently drawn there is, I believe, some possibility of a difficulty in interpretation arising. I commend the honourable member's suggestion to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby). 
I hesitate to break the non-partisan nature of this debate in any way, but I would like to take up 2 points made by 2 different speakers for the Government. Firstly the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  in the introduction to his speech on this Bill, said that the Government has had spectacular success over the last 2 years. I could not let that go by without comment. The Government certainly has had spectacular success over the last 2 years. It has had spectacular success in that the rate of inflation is the highest we have ever had and it has had spectacular success in that the rate of unemployment is the highest we have ever had. That is important because if we had not had such a spectacular rate of inflation we would have been able to do a whole lot more with the money which has been expended in such areas as education. For instance, a great amount of the extra money being spent on education is in fact being spent on covering the increased costs which have come about simply because of the enormous rate of inflation which Australia has been experiencing since the present Government came into office. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said that the most centralised education systems were to be found in the States. I cannot speak of the situation in any State other than my own State of New South Wales, but I would agree with him on that. In fact, the highly centralised, bureaucratised education system in New South Wales is the direct result of over 20 years of Labor government in that State. So we should keep that in mind. I would be the first to admit that the breaking down of the centralisation of the education system in New South Wales is proving to be a very difficult process. It is being resisted strongly by some groups which I hope will not continue their opposition to the process of breaking down the centralisation of the educational system there. 
Having said that, let us look at the Curriculum Development Centre. When one considers it I think that one should look very quickly at the functions of the Curriculum Development Centre. As outlined they are, firstly, to undertake curriculum development tasks and to develop teaching and learning materials for use in schools and, secondly, to commission and support curriculum and materials development. Another function is to provide advisory services relating to curriculum and materials development. I have taken only a few of the functions because they are the ones upon which I wish to comment. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said: 
In the word 'curriculum' educators refer to the whole range of learning experience which a child undergoes during his schooling. An aim of curriculum development is to relate education to the needs of the individual. 
I agree with that 100 per cent. In the latter stages of his speech the Minister said: 
If maximum benefit is to be gained from these expenditures, and if the innate talents of our children are to be developed to meet the calls of society in the present and in the future, then proper arrangements for the continuous review and development of the materials and methods of teaching and learning in schools are essential. 
I agree totally with those statements -by the Minister. I would like to refer in particular at this stage to the position of disadvantaged groups of children within our community. We can all think of various groups of disadvantaged children in our community for whom particular regard must be taken. Handicapped children and isolated children are just 2 groups that spring readily to mind. The section I would like to bring forward today for some degree of emphasis relates to migrant children or the children of migrants in Australia. I was thinking originally of seeing whether an amendment could be moved to the Bill that would lay particular emphasis on the needs of the disadvantaged groups, but, having looked at the composition of the Bill and the framing of the Bill, I felt that it was not appropriate to do so. 
No, it does not really deal with migrant education or disadvantaged groups as a whole. What I wish to do at this stage is to highlight briefly some of the areas at which I believe the Curriculum Development Centre should be looking. 
I agree with that, but I want to highlight some of those areas so that people will be encouraged to do just what the 
Minister has suggested. When one looks at the problems being experienced by migrant children or the children of migrants- they are not necessarily the same thing- one is impressed by the immensity of the situation in terms of the total number involved and the immensity of the situation in terms of the spread of disadvantages within that particular group. I believe that people throughout Australia- the educators in particular- must develop an appreciation of the size of this problem, which affects literally thousands of young Australians. As the Minister has said, if these people are to develop and to take part in and contribute to the society of Australia in the future their particular problems must be taken into account and curricula designed to overcome their disadvantages must be brought forward. 
I would like briefly to instance some of the areas in which I would like to see the Curriculum Development Centre operating with some degree of specificity. I refer firstly to language training. The teaching of the English language to nonEnglish speaking children is an absolute must. I am sure that we are not doing it well enough at the moment. I believe that a great deal of attention should be given to not only the teaching of the English language but also the teaching of other languages to not only Australian born children but also overseas born children. What we are seeing happen in many instances is the development of inter-cultural differences between parents and their children because the children are being taught in Australian schools under Australian conditions and Australian curricula with very little attention being paid to the ethnic and cultural backgrounds of themselves and their parents. So I would like to see the Centre looking at such things as the inclusion of ethnic cultures within the curricula which is available to children throughout Australia and the particular ways in which the richness of the various ethnic cultures at present represented in Australia can be brought home not only to the children who have some ancestry relating to those cultures but also to the Australian born children or the children of Australian parents, whose own culture would be immensely enriched by some knowledge of various other cultures. 
Another area is the area of bilingual teaching in specific schools. Subjects could be taught in 2 languages and books and lessons could be available in 2 languages so that children who are not as proficient as their class mates in the language in which the subject is being taught- and that, at this stage, is of course English- may have the opportunity of keeping up with the levels of attainment of their classmates who are more proficient in the language. The development of teaching materials specifically related to particular groups is an immense area of research and development to which I confidently hope the Curriculum Development Centre will give a great stimulation. I believe that there is an enormous area here in which existing teaching materials can be used far more effectively and new teaching materials developed to allow the assimilation of extra knowledge in a much more advantageous way than has been the case in the past. I would like also to see investigated by the Curriculum Development Centre the suggestion that a resources centre and a research centre for ethnic groups be available to both the teachers and the public so that we can get a ready availability of resource material relating to the multiplicity of ethnic groups which now exists in Australia. Of course, we need a decent program of research into the learning problems of ethnic groups and in-service training, as has been mentioned by other speakers, and the basic training of teachers in coping with the problems of those disadvantaged sectors within our society. Again I instance the fact that many migrant children or children of migrant parents fall into the category of being disadvantaged children simply because in most cases they do not have the knowledge of the language that will enable them to integrate, keep up and go forward at the same rate as their school mates. 
I wish to make one final plea, if I may. Because of the immensity of this problem and because of the range of problems which affect the teaching of migrant children, could we give some close consideration to the appointment of people who have a degree of knowledge, a degree of commitment relating to migrant education? In other words, I would like to see people of an ethnic background appointed to advisory committees or supervisory committees, people who have an intimate knowledge, who themselves were migrants or the children of migrants who really have a first-hand working knowledge of the problems which these people face. Of course, although this Curriculum Development Centre only applies, as I understand it, to teaching in schools- and, therefore would only apply to school children- this problem of education which faces migrants is not confined to children at all. It extends to their parents, to training, retraining and the whole range of educational enrichment. 
We are dealing today with the Curriculum Development Centre, which relates to school children. I appeal to the Minister in his attitude and in his talks with his advisers and his officers to look at the inclusion of migrants on advisory or supervisory committees, and I urge that we keep very much in mind the problems being experienced by this very large group of Australians or soon-to-be Australians, the migrant children. 
It is somewhat unusual to find the Government ranks so thinned that nobody from that side is prepared to make a speech in the adjournment debate. I rise tonight to draw the attention of the House to an important component of the Australian economy that has received scant attention from the present Government- attention so scant, in fact that I believe that this vital part of the private sector of commercial operations in Australia has been neglected and prejudiced, in many cases to the point of virtual destruction. I refer to small business. Some of the honourable gentlemen sitting opposite me at the moment no doubt would dispute the importance of small businesses to the Australian economy but I would remind them that if one accepts the definition of small firms as those employing less than 100 people then 93 per cent of all manufacturing establishments, and probably an even higher percentage of retail and service businesses, would fall into this category. It takes a lot of courage, effort and initative to start a business at any time but particularly today. As  Mr Williams,  a senior lecturer in small business management at the University of New England, recently said: 
The sheer size of the small business population is impressive enough, but if one seriously considers the odds against the successful establishment and operation of a small business venture the wonder is that the sector is as large and vigorous as it is. 
I do not believe it is acceptable or even moderately tolerable for the Government to consider the alarming figures of small business failures as either unimportant or undeserving of serious concern. I suppose we have to ask: Why should small businesses be granted special considerations when other sections of the economy, for example, the multi-national concerns, are being overtly constrained in their operations by this Government? The answer to that is simple. Small businesses per se have no inalienable right to expect clumsy management, financial ineptitude or economically non-viable products to be granted some kind of charitable reprieve. But there are certain principles, certain undeniable and long established traits of the Australian character, that appear to demand not only the continuation but the active encouragement of the small business.operation. 
It is easily discernable that the people of Australia place a heavy regard on the opportunities of enterprising initiative. Take away that initiative and you remove the desire for success, you remove the true potential of competitions, and you remove some real possibilities of productivity development and economic growth. In a multiplier-effect economy such as  Mr Milton  Friedman outlines this capacity for prime-cause initiative is not just one requirement, it is fundamental to the very process of productivity. The ruggedly established independence of the Australian character would be sadly deprived if this same opportunity to reach commercial success, to work hard and establish an efficient company or service, were in any way denied by academics who are far too prone to theorise, or governments such as the present one ideologically committed to extending the domain of the public sector. 
For these reasons I have tried to outline the philosophical position of small businesses but I also would Uke to offer a number of possible solutions to the current problems faced today by small businesses which are fundamentally ones or finance and management efficiency. I fully support the introduction of the enterprise counselling assistance program to assist management operations of small businesses. This scheme certainly attempts to fill the need that many younger ventures find for advice in management directions and efficient planning. 
What of the other easily effected measures the Government could be initiating to support the small businessman? The most obvious, of course, is tax relaxation. In the United States of America, in the aftermath of a series of anti-trust legislation, it has been enacted that company tax on firms earning less than $25,000 is 25 per cent as opposed to the normal 48 per cent. Further, the United States Government allows retention of tax profits of up to $100,000 before becoming liable to retained earning tax. Surely this is a more equitable way of preserving this vital component of the economy. Larger corporations generally are more capable of coping with financial problems such as inflation and high interest rates but the smaller concerns are devastated- there is no other word for it- by inefficient economic management as demonstrated by the present Government. 
Another area of assistance to small business that bears investigation is again taken from the American experience. It is the policy of awarding Government contracts of less than $500,000 to small firms. Obviously multi-million dollar projects will be out of the scope of most small businesses but contracting to small concerns for the more minor enterprises not only prevents the undesirable establishment of Government patronage and payola from taking place, it also encourages the small businesses to compete and strive towards greater productivity. 
Another measure which appears to have worked well in the United States of America in the management advice and assistance line is the SCORE scheme which effectively utilises the services of retired but thoroughly experienced business executives. There is in the community a vast reservoir of talent which is not being utilised at the moment. This reservoir of talent comprises these retired business executives who have a great deal of productive capacity left in them. The serious problems with which small businesses in Australia are faced today are due in large part either to a deliberate policy of the Government to destroy this sector of the economy or to the Government's inadvertence and appalling unawareness of the difficulties which small businesses are experiencing. Either position displays a reprehensible irresponsibility on the part of the Labor Government. 
I reiterate that not only I but all members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party believe in the continuation of a vibrant and productive private sector. As I said at the beginning of my speech, small business is the backbone of a productive private sector. I urge the Government to take immediate steps to overcome the present disparity in the tax burdens of private and public companies, firstly, by allowing an increase in company retention allowance when it can be demonstrated that retained funds are being put back into the business; secondly, by instigating a provision for a taxation deduction to enable small companies to be adequately covered for expenditure on superannuation; and further, by allowing past losses to be carried back over the previous 3 years tax paid, as is allowed in the United States of America and Canada. 
These are some propositions which deserve greater consideration than they have had so far by this Government. I hope the Government realises that if it runs out of time in which to implement these proposals the consequences for small businessmen all over Australia and the thousands of people they cumulatively employ would be absolutely disastrous. As I stated at the outset, small businesses employing less than 100 people comprise over 93 per cent of our manufacturing establishments. I believe very strongly that these people are facing immense problems under the economic difficulties which currently beset Australia. If we neglect them, if we allow them to go out backwards, if we destroy the initiative, enterprise and opportunities for success, then not only these people but Australia as a whole will really be disadvantaged. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that some South Vietnamese students in Australia sponsored by the Australian Government have wives, young children and other dependent relatives remaining in South Vietnam? Is it also a fact that the South Vietnamese Government has not allowed in the past wives and children to join their husbands sponsored for study overseas? In view of the genuine fear of reprisals in South Vietnam following military victories by the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces will the Prime Minister, before he leaves for overseas this week, make urgent representations to the South Vietnamese Government to permit wives and young children of Vietnamese students in Australia to join their husbands? Will he also give assurances that the Australian Government will assist in this reunion of families? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the most senior member of the Palestine Liberation Organisation in Cairo,  Mr Gamal  Omar ElSurani, is seeking to visit Australia as part of a propaganda tour of South East Asia, and has been granted a visa to enable him to do so? In view of the fact that the responsible Minister has said that he knows nothing of the matter, will the Prime Minister inform both the Minister and the House whether this visa has been granted and, if so, will the decision be reconsidered? 
-In my speech during the second reading debate on the Family Law Bill I intimated that I would move an amendment to clause 48 which would seek to do a number of things. In fact, I find that my honourable and learned colleague, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  has an amendment very similar to the one that I had intended to move. Therefore, I will support his amendment. I think it is important that we all should give the reason we adopt the attitudes that we do. My reason for supporting the amendment to this clause is that I believe that the clause as presently defined is too restrictive in part. In this debate other honourable members have outlined just how unfair this can be to certain parties. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr 
Kevin Cairns) spoke, I believe, very eloquently about the need of this Parliament to preserve the rights of the innocent party in any marriage dissolution. 
I believe it is not realistic to state that separation is and should be the only test of a marriage breakdown. If one looks at the real world one see that this tends to be artificial. There are many causes of marriage breakdowns. Of course, not the greatest number of them would come under the definition of intolerable conduct. This is where I believe that the clause, as presently defined, is too restrictive. I do not believe that parties to marriages who are suffering from what can be described as intolerable conduct should have to wait one year, as proposed in the legislation, before they can get a divorce. That intolerable conduct should be determined by the judge. I reject the somewhat cynical attitude of people like the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  towards the ability of courts to take a realistic stance in these matters. We all know some examples of intolerable conduct- adultery, cruelty, drunkenness and assault- which could be put forward. This should be determined by the judge. An aspect of this question of intolerable conduct which has led some people to oppose the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth is that they are frightened that reports of the intolerable conduct will be splattered throughout the newspapers. As I understand the Bill, these matters will be heard in closed court. If intolerable conduct is included as a ground for divorce it will give some justice to the injured party in any divorce situation, and I think that this is important and should be kept in mind. 
I believe also that the law has 2 functions. One is to provide the legal framework by which the individual lives of our citizens are carried on. Certainly, and more importantly, the law has the function of outlining, initiating and strengthening a community attitude. Why do we pick any one period for separation? What is so sacrosanct about one year, 2 years or 3 months? If we reduce the argument right down, why should not a divorce be granted immediately in all cases? Obviously this is not done because we want to preserve the institution of marriage and we realise the responsibility of the law to do just that. Not only have we in this Parliament the responsibility to bring about a fair and equitable  law which deals with the dissolution of marriage; we have also the additional responsibility to introduce a law which will provide an acceptable framework to the community in respect of successful marriages or in respect of the responsibility incumbent upon people when contemplating marriage. This matter was raised in this debate by other honourable members when they said that if we introduce a too easy divorce system or too short a period for divorce, we could bring about the position in which people would entertain marriage lightly and inadvisedly. I am sure that none of us in the Parliament would like to be responsible for the introduction of a law which would have that effect. In looking at the legislation as presented to the Parliament I believe that the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth gives the best opportunity for a successful result. 

The fact that I am raising the question of refugees from Vietnam in the adjournment debate tonight is brought about only by the shallow device introduced by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  which prevented the Opposition bringing forward this matter earlier during this sitting of the House. This device prevented us debating matters like this during the currency of the debate on the Family Law Bill. 
Probably for the next 50 years, or even longer, Vietnam will remain as a sad memory in the minds of thousands of Australians. I have no intention of debating the history of Australia's involvement in Vietnam- that has all been done before- and I have no intention of seeking recriminations or apportioning blame for the tragic events that have taken place there. But I am seriously concerned that the epilogue of events in Indo-China will be as sullied as much of its all too conveniently forgettable past. The point I wish to make, and the feeling the Opposition wishes to convey, is that the present 
Government, throughout the whole period prior to and immediately following the fall of Saigon, has acted with shameful indifference to the plight of thousands of South Vietnamese. Many of these people were fearful of losing their lives. Most were looking to Australia, as a nation of long established compassion, to provide the sanctuary it has so often given to other oppressed peoples, regardless of political persuasion. That is what those people thought. 
What appears to be happening is that the present Government evaluates the extent of its humanitarian assistance by first determining political alignment. There was no reluctance to accept refugees from Chile on humanitarian grounds. In fact since 1973, over 2000 have entered the country. But what of the thousands of South Vietnamese, many of whom have considerable skills and professional status, who have been confronted with what one correspondent described as 'the worst kind of bureaucratic insensitivity'? Surely it is not acceptable to the Australian people that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  should attempt to absolve himself from the moral responsibility of assistance to these people by passing the buck onto a United Nations organisation. 
I believe the only explanation for the Government's inordinate mismanagement of this matter is that it is entirely dominated by a fear of upsetting its so-called friends in Hanoi. I am not disputing the value that can be gained from diplomatic and commercial links with North Vietnam or doubting the political reality of the current status quo. But I do question the desirability of such an association if it begins to exert a disproportionate influence over the decision making of the Australian Government. The Prime Minister, by his actions, has shown negligible concern for the people of South Vietnam. He has procrastinated, hedged, skilfully avoided and at other times, blatantly pontificatedbut all towards the same end. If he had been honest he would have admitted that he had no interest or intention of offering assistance to the people of South Vietnam because they were opponents of Hanoi. The extent of Australia 's compassion was compromised by what can be seen only as political expediency. 
I do not believe mere accusations are sufficient or even necessary in this case. Let the facts speak for themselves, as the Prime Minister so often tells us. Firstly, why was there a gap of almost 3 weeks before the Government announced its criteria of entry for South Vietnamese refugees? Guidelines were submitted by the Department of Foreign Affairs on 7 April. It was 20 April before the Prime Minister announced the categories of persons that would be accepted. The fact that these categories were far more rigid than normal entry requirements speaks for itself. Not only did the decision come too late; when it was announced, it was so cruelly restrictive that it was of negligible impact anyway. 
The Government ignored both the recommendations of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the pleas from South Vietnamese already living there. On 24 April, South Vietnamese students petitioned the Government to allow in their immediate families. But again there was no response. The Government was simply playing a deceitful charade. It was patently obvious that it did not want to accept refugees from South Vietnam and yet it persisted with this shallow pretence. For example, on the same day- 24 AprilEmbassy staff in Saigon was scaled down, making thorough processing of applications virtually impossible. Arguments from Government Ministers claiming that other South East Asian countries were not doing anything either must be one of the most feeble excuses ever to come from a singularly unimaginative Administration. It is Australia 's reputation and long standing history as a nation of unbiased humanitarianism that is in question. This Government appears bent on irrevocably shattering this tradition to the shame of not only this Parliament, but also of generations yet to live in its ignominious shadow. 
Why was it that after only a token load of 90 refugees had been evacuated from Saigon the Australian Embassy closed its doors and left so many others behind, 250 of which were qualified to come? While the Prime Minister was indulging himself over the glories of one lost civilization in the lofty seclusion of Peru, living human beings were being denied the basic right of survival. The Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  announced on 28 April that there would be no more Royal Australian Air Force flights out of Saigon because of, to use his words, 'unacceptable danger'. I remind the House that at that same time, 3 airlines were still operating commercial flights out of Saigon, and the United States Air Force was continuing its own airlift. In addition, Captain David Gray of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots had said that he was prepared to make another flight, and on 29 April, 30 Qantas pilots made similar offers. Further, it was reported on the same day that the RAAF pilot who had made the last flight out said that there had been, in his words, 'no danger in flying out of Saigon' 
What was the Government doing while all this was going on? Firstly, the Acting Foreign Minister claimed that it was the South Vietnamese Government that was at fault for not issuing exit visas. But this is of no significance at all when one considers that, firstly, out of 5200 sponsored applications only 500 had been approved anyway, and secondly, that the U.S. had been airlifting numbers of people without this exit visa requirement. There are statutory declarations available to say no exit visas were needed. To talk of 'legality ' in this situation is farcical. Whatever semblance of law there is in a nation overrun and terrorised certainly does not stretch to urgent refugee requirements. The object surely should have been to offer those who could realistically justify it, an opportunity to take refuge in Australia- not a massive population transplant, but simply a concerned response to a genuine plea for assistance. These people feared for their lives. One can understand why when one sees the statutory declarations about people hobbling into cities with their hamstrings cut, with their achilles tendons cut and with their fingernails torn out by the advancing communist troops. 
On the 7th of this month, in another example of the all too familiar policy acrobatics we have come to expect from the present Government, the Prime Minister announced that Australia would accept an 'unspecified number of Vietnamese refugees who have found their way out of South Vietnam'. But there was another rider. Other countries had to accept them as well. Surely this is just another unworthy facade. Relying on uncertainty and effectively discharging Australia's own responsibilities, the Prime Minister has again shown his total disinterest in the plight of these people. No number is given; no quota has been imposed. The response of Prime Minister Lee of Singapore to Australia's attitude is well known and struck a responsive chord. We can and should do more. In defiance of the Government's own policies, families are being separated and fiancees are not being allowed to enter Australia. 
The question is this: How genuine and how honest have been the Australian Government's attempts to assist the refugees of South Vietnam? I would say that they have not been honest at all. Press reports last weekend show that even  Mr Morrison's  magnanimous offer to 'give every possible assistance' to those refugees who reach the Philippines or Thailand has been ignored. Further, what of the report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' of 8 May that the head of the United States Interagency Task Force on Refugees told a United States State Department Press conference that Australia would be taking fewer than 100 refugees. The Prime Minister's callous disregard for the people of South Vietnam is not hard to substantiate. On 13 May he said that many thousands of South Vietnamese would want to return home- meaning that he would rather they returned home- while only on Monday of this week he claimed that Australians would probably feel resentful towards Vietnamese refugees. What a cheap statement that was. It is also in direct contradiction of the statement of his Special Adviser on Community Relations who said on 10 May that Australians would welcome 1500 South Vietnamese refugees. 
In the last few weeks, the indifference of the Austraiian Government to humanitarian need has cost Australia a well respected reputation as a nation of unprejudiced compassion. The Opposition has consistently taken a humanitarian line. We have not sought to 'fight over the bodies'. We have given the Government every opportunity to demonstrate effective responses to this tragic human situation. We have not sought to play politics about refugees. We believed that human considerations took precedence over mere party political difference. We have said that significant numbers of refugees should be allowed to come to Australia and we supported any moves to bring this situation about. Not only have we been disappointed. Many hundreds of people of Vietnamese origin, within Australia and outside have been cruelly, callously, capriciously cast aside by this Government, most particularly by this Prime Minister. The blame, is his- the shame is Australia's. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has there been a resistance by New Zealand authorities to the Australian Government's proposal to introduce some sort of travel document requirement for travel between Australia and New Zealand by citizens of those 2 countries? Will such documentation be required? If so, when will the requirement be introduced? 
-I am very pleased that the Government has undertaken to support the amendments moved by the Opposition, as has been outlined by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  and by my colleague the honourable member for Benelong  (Mr Howard).  I was a little disappointed in the Attorney-General when he said that this was typical of Opposition posturing. I think that this is one measure that has been through this Parliament in my time in this Parliament where there has been a genuine attempt by both sides of the Parliament- both in the House of Representatives and in the other place- to have a debate on this very sensitve subject free of acrimony. It was a genuine attempt to bring about a common sense of purpose. So I think that it does him, or his speech writers, less than justice to forward the point about Opposition posturing. There is no posturing about the Opposition's attitude towards the Racial Discrimination Bill. 
As my colleague has stressed, we are as much against racial discrimination as anybody in the land but we believe that the original proposals put forward by the Government were perhaps a little bit too enthusiastic in some areas. We have sought to safeguard individuals' rights to express their opinions. We have stressed conciliation and I am glad that the Government has accepted that point of view. I think I can speak for just about everybody in the Parliament when I say that I hope there will be no court case brought in relation to the workings of this Bill. I would like to see the conciliation procedures so effective that there would be no necessity for a court case to be brought. As my colleague has said, our attitude was engendered by a genuine desire to bring about a reduction in that little bit of racial prejudice which was not inadvertent and, as the honourable member for Bennelong said, we rejected the blunt instrument approach. We thought that the powers of the commissioner were too strong and too much. If we are proved wrong in the future no doubt we will have another look at it. 
I am glad that the Attorney-General has said that, despite our approach, the Bill is a step forward. I think that it is a step forward in bringing about a realisation within the total Australian society that racial discrimination, which I firmly believe is largely inadvertent, should not be countenanced. On a personal basis, I was very disappointed that some groups have said that my not recording a vote in the Opposition's approach to clause 28 when it was debated in the House was due to some reluctance to be totally in favour of the Opposition's position. I make it clear that I firmly reject clause 28 as it was originally drafted and I am glad that the Government has also now accepted that the original clause 28 should not be included in the Bill. I, like the Attorney-General and the honourable member for Bennelong, hope that this will be a significant step forward in assisting community attitudes to what has been a very intractable problem in other countries. I do not see it as having that significance within Australia. I support the Government's viewpoint in relation to this Bill. 
I am very pleased that the Government has adopted the amendment. I wish to speak to sub-clause ( 7 ) of clause 10. Sub-clause (7) reads: 
The appointment of a member is not invalidated and shall not be called in question by reason of a defect or irregularity in, or in connection with, his selection or appointment. 
I am not a lawyer, but that provision seems to me to be open to a number of interpretations. For example, if a person is appointed irregularly or if the preceding conditions of appointment are not complied with, it would seem that sub-clause (7) would allow that person to retain his appointment. I believe that it is a let-out provision to cover a situation in which a person is appointed on the basis that he has a high reputation in the field of biological conservation and somebody later says that he has not. That may be the intent of the sub-clause but on a sheer reading of the sub-clause as printed it seems to me to have a wider application. 
-I rise to speak to clause 7 which deals with the functions of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. In doing so, as I did not have the opportunity because of the arrangements that were made to speak on the second reading of this Bill, I wish to stress that I, too, welcome the establishment of this marine park. I fully concur with all those remarks which stressed the scientific importance of the area. The Great Barrier Reef is obviously one of those areas in the world which can truthfully be said to be unique. It does not belong just to one section of Australia or to Australia as a whole; it belongs to the world. Therefore, it is of immense importance in that respect as it is of great importance for its social and recreational value. As the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has pointed out, the Great Barrier Reef plays a very large part in the life style and in supporting the lives of many individual Queenslanders. 
I was a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee which inquired into wildlife conservation. One of the recommendations of that Select Committee, which reported in 1972, related specifically to the marine areas of the Great Barrier Reef. I think that it is worthwhile picking up this point. In paragraph 129 of its report the Committee says: 
New South Wales aims to establish a number of marine national parks, but the marine environment of the greatest extent and interest is clearly the Great Barrier Reef. 
The report goes on to deal with the importance of the Great Barrier Reef. This aspect has been stressed by other speakers in this debate. The report talks about the scientific, aesthetic and recreational reasons for regarding the Great Barrier Reef as being of particular importance. But the main point which this report stresses- and I think it was the first major report which did stress this aspect- is the fact that the Committee accepted at that time and recommended that the Great Barrier Reef should be set aside as a marine national park and made secure against mineral exploration or exploitation. Clause 7 of the Bill deals with the recommendations of the Select Committee at that time. 
I have a particular interest in this matter because as an Opposition backbencher in the previous Parliament I introduced a private members Bill in relation to the establishment of a Great Barrier Reef marine national park. I was pleased that such a program was announced in the Governor-General's Speech in opening the present Parliament. In that Speech stress was laid on the need to establish such a park. Before the Committee now is the legislation which brings that proposal into effect. 
I join with the honourable member for Herbert in saying that I am a little surprised that the legislation has not gone further to declare the whole of the area of the Great Barrier Reef as a national park. I think that a number of people would be much happier if the whole area had been set aside and then specific exceptions made rather than to follow the somewhat piecemeal approach which is adopted in this legislation. 
The functions of the Authority are as laid down in the Bill. I draw attention to the difficulties of policing the administration of this very large area of water and the marine life to be found therein. If we are to do a really effective job in relation to this marine national park, a great deal more stress will need to be placed on such aspects as coastal surveillance and the allocation of additional moneys by all governments concerned to ensure that the provisions of this legislation are effectively policed. The greater the extent of special zones, the more difficult the job of policing them will become. 
As the honourable member for Gwydir says, one of the matters that we are worried about is the RAAF using parts of this Reef as a rocket range or as a bombing practice area. This action will need to cease forthwith. We also have the problem of people, not all of them Australians, engaged in fishing on the Great Barrier Reef. This will pose a great difficulty for those charged with the job of policing the marine park. 
I believe that, at all times, those charged with the authority to administer this park must keep in mind the very diverse nature of the uses of the area. It would be a pity if one group or another gained ascendancy on the Authority and forgot about the multiple uses of this very extensive area of the globe. For instance, purely scientific research could be over-emphasised to the detriment of the ability of people to make use of the magnificent opportunities that are available within this area to follow other pursuits. I congratulate the Government on bringing this legislation forward. I have some reservations about other clauses. But as this legislation realises a dream that I have had for some time, I am fully in support of the Government's initiatives in this legislation. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
Before choosing the persons to be appointed as the first members or choosing a person to be appointed to fill a vacancy in the membership of the Authority, the Australian Government shall, in writing, invite the Queensland Government to consult with it concerning the appointments or appointment, as the case may be, and an appointment shall not be made until agreement has been reached between the Governments as to the persons or person to be appointed, as the case may be, or the expiration of the period of 3 months after the invitation, whichever is the earlier. 
I ask the Prime Minister Have some South Vietnamese refugees been required to sign a document undertaking not to take part in any political activity in Australia? Who is responsible for this undertaking being sought? Have refugees from any other country coming to Australia ever been asked to sign a similar undertaking? Does this undertaking mean that the South Vietnamese can never be granted Australian citizenship or, if they can, they will not have the same civil rights as all other Australian citizens have? 
-I raise this matter of public importance again today- it was gagged last week- because I believe that the special requirement imposed on 9 South Vietnamese refugees seeking entry into Australia carries implications for all Australian citizens and all those who may seek citizenship in the future. I would like to make one thing quite clear. I am not attempting by way of this matter of public importance to revive the Vietnam dispute. I am raising the great democratic principle of freedom of speech. I notice that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has left the chamber. Before raising this matter I sought from the Prime Minister a copy of the requirement signed by the refugees. As yet he has not made a copy available to me. However, from Peter Samuel's article in the  Bulletin  I believe that the requirement is in these words: 
I solemnly declare that if admitted to Australia for permanent residence I will not engage in political activity of any kind, and I will not permit my name to be lent or associated with any such prohibited activity. 
Shame, as people rightly say. If this was not the requirement, let the Prime Minister clearly state what the requirement is. There is no doubt, however, that a requirement was sought and obtained. Keeping that in mind, let me now quote in part from the immigration platform of the Australian Labour Party as defined at Terrigal in February this year. It reads: 
Labour supports an immigration policy administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance. 

 Senator Mulvihill, Vice Chairman of the Federal Labor Party's Immigration Committee, said in an address entitled  Refugees in the World Today  delivered on Thursday of last week, that is, 28 August:  ... the sympathy, understanding and tolerance with which the Government's policies are administered apply no less strongly to refugees than to migrants generally. 
He again quoted from decisions of the Terrigal conference when he said that the Labor policies included: 
No discrimination on grounds of race, nationality, politics, creed or sex. 
He went on to say: 
Clause (f) of the policy which provides that there shall be no discrimination on grounds of race, nationality, politics, creed or sex lies at the heart of Australia's immigration policy. It also means that Australia does not discriminate between refugees on grounds of race, nationality, politics -  he mentioned it again-  creed or sex. 
-Senator Mulvihill said that last week. He went on to say: 
Just as we have a global immigration policy, so too we have within its non-discriminatory provisions a global refugee policy. 
What hypocrisy,  Mr Speaker!  How could  Senator Mulvihill  say what he did, knowing as he must have that it was simply untrue? 
In examining the matter, let us all be clear on one very significant and very disturbing fact: The signing of this requirement did not come about because of an excess of bureaucratic zeal, as a result of precedent or as a continuation of long established practice. It came about solely because the Prime Minister himself demanded it. This offensive requirement, this denial of basic rights, this shameful example of political discrimination, is the personal responsibility of the Prime Minister, and he alone demanded it. He can shelter behind no one. He can blame no one. He can sack no one. He alone is responsible. 
As the honourable member for Bennelong remarks, the Prime Minister is not in the House now. The Prime Minister prides himself on his adherence to commitments to the United Nations entered into by Australia. An important document of that body is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In part, that document says: 
I am very disappointed that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  should make such an attack on the medical profession as a whole when he knows very well that the vast majority of members of the medical profession lead extremely hard-working and busy lives and do the best they can in extremely difficult circumstances to look after the well-being of their patients. What the honourable member for Shortland has discovered is that Medibank, as we of the Opposition have said so frequently, contains a whole lot of bugs. In fact, as the honourable member said, some people will take advantage of the situation and make money out of it. This will lead to an open-ended situation where the cost of Medibank will escalate enormously over the years to come and the 2 results of Medibank which we will see, not in the short term but certainly in the long term in my view - 
-We have just heard an extraordinary speech, read largely from an overseas publication, by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in which he postulates that because capitalism, according to this article, is not being as successful as he would like to see it, socialism would be more successful. I think that this proposition deserves some close examination. If socialism has been so successful, why has it been rejected and been so unsuccessful in such a large proportion of the world's countries and enslaved so many of the world's people? I think it is interesting to hear so many people talk about socialism and the benefits that it can give. Yet let us have a look at those nations which suffer under socialism. I remember the Nazi nation, which I believe even the honourable member would rail against. That was a socialist republic, if we remember our history. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is a socialist republic. It is not going too well. Therefore, the apologists for socialism really have a couple of things to answer for. 
Let us have a look at the situation in Australia at the moment under an avowedly socialist Government and let us see how it is going. Let us have a look at how the socialist government of Australia is getting on in managing the economy of this country. Inflation is running at 16 per cent and rising. Unemployment is the highest since the Depression. Interest rates are the highest in living memory. Businesses and primary industry are going broke. The honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  has been in the Parliament since June. I took part in that election campaign in Bass. I remember very clearly walking down the streets of George Town, a bastion of the Australian Labor Party in the past, and noticing all the empty shop fronts. The empty shop fronts were all brought about simply because of the mismanagement of this Government. How did the people of George Town react to this splendid socialist dream brought upon them by this Government? They voted against it- to the tune of a 17 per cent swing- and for the people who believe in free enterprise. 
What about the morale of producers in this country, those who make the goods which become available so that people can have the sort of life we would all like to see? They are going out backwards. What about the deficit? The Budget deficit is the greatest in the history of this nation and has been brought about by this splendid socialist Government. What do we have in this country? We have a sheer shambles in terms of the economy. Whether the Government likes it or not, it cannot blame the position on overseas events. The Government has sought to blame it on overseas events since it came to power. Do not take my word for it that we cannot blame the position on overseas events. Have a look at the document of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development for July 1975. Have a look at Budget Statement No. 2. Have a look at the Budget speech by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland),  a member of your own Party, delivered in the Senate last week. He did not blame the position on overseas events. He blamed it quite rightly, as did these other authorities, on home grown mismanagement. That is what has occurred in this country since this socialist Government came to power in 1 972. 
Let us have a look a little more closely at the Budget. What does it do? What should it do? Does it, in fact, control inflation? Rather than controlling inflation, the Budget says that inflation will run at the rate of 1 8 per cent in this coming year. How about that for a control over inflation. Inflation is running at the rate of 1 6 per cent at the moment. The Government is budgeting for an inflation rate of 18 per cent. Government expenditure is up 22 per cent on its already excessively high level. Indirect taxes have been pushed up enormously. Are these measures inflationary or anti-inflationary? Everybody knows that they are inflationary. What do the measures do? Whom do they hit at most? They hit at the people Government members are supposed to represent- the small man, the man who finds it difficult to buy an extra gallon of petrol, the man who finds it difficult to buy a pint of beer these days, the man who has a cigarette,- 
The working man-the people that the Government is supposed to represent. What is the present position? Already, there has been a 6c a gallon increase in the price of petrol. What about providing encouragement for the business sector? There will be a $25 per tonne increase in the price of liquefied petroleum gas. That will help business get under way! There is no way that the Budget brought down by this apology for a government can diminish in any sense the inflationary pressures let loose by the mismanagement of this Government. What about the unemployment? Government members are alleged to be concerned about unemployment But we have the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the Senate talking about a rise in unemployment peaking at around about 400 000 people by December or January of this year. How do Government members like sitting on that side of the chamber? 
Of course the honourable member likes it. He should not get used to it; he will be over this side shortly. There is no way that this Budget will restore business confidence. If business confidence is not restored, unemployment cannot be brought down. Whether Government members like it or not, the majority of the employment takes place in the private sector and will continue to take place in the private sector. If the Government keeps bashing the private sector, there is no way it will get unemployment down. Let us have a look at support for the private sector to which some people in the Government pay lip service- and I use that word advisedly. There is no assistance in capital raising by either the provision of new funds or the retention of profits. There is no relief of the liquidity crisis facing many businesses. There is no long term commitment and no real encouragement to invest. The double depreciation allowance is deceptive. Honourable members should remember that the continuous process industries had been allowed double depreciation allowances until last year. The allowance was removed by the Labor Government last year. It has now been restored to its original position. How about that for taking away with one hand and giving with the other! This is simply deceptive, as is so much of the rest of this Budget. There is no promise to continue the commitments in terms of double depreciation allowances or tax relief. 
The failure rate of business in Australia, if one cares to have a look at it- I ask honourable members to remember that the people involved are the ones who provide employment for the vast majority of Australians- has trebled since this socialist Labor Government came to power. The tax on stocks is enormous. It is 316 times what it was 2 years ago. It is increasingly difficult to finance needed working capital, and costs are added to by companies being forced towards a non-contributory superannuation scheme because of the situation brought about in this Budget introduced by the present Government. In all these ways there is absolutely no practical boost whatsoever to the market place. The people in the market place are the people who most provide the jobs; the people who most provide the goods. If no boost is given to these people and no incentive is given to these people, the economic mess which faces Australia at the moment will not be overcome. 
How about the easing of personal hardship about which the Labor Party talks so much? This Budget- said to be responsible by the apologists for the Government- in my belief can be described as nothing but a sheer hoax. I ask honourable members to look at personal income tax. We are led to believe that personal income tax will be relieved by the new measures introduced by the Government, but if we look a little more closely at the figures what do we find? We find that personal income tax is up by 43 per cent and earnings are up by 22 per cent in the present year. Who will pay that difference? Will it or will it not be the taxpayer? Why are the members of the Government Party not honest with the Australian population? Why do they not tell the people that they have taken them for a ride? Even if they do not tell the people, they will realise it in the months ahead. 
The total income tax paid by individuals is budgeted to exceed $10.3 billion. This is equivalent to 58.7 per cent of the total Budget receipts. In 1972-73 the total tax paid by individuals was $4.09 billion, which equalled 48.4 per cent of the total receipts. This Government says that it has introduced tax relief. What absolute humbug and deceit! The total tax paid by individuals has grown by more than  2Vi  times in 3 years. Again I throw it back in the face of the Government: This Budget is a hoax. I believe very strongly that the Budget will cause a resurgence of demand for very large wage increases simply because unionists will realise that their tax will not diminish and that if they are to get anywhere they will have to have higher and higher wage increases so that their after-tax pay will be meaningful. 
The combined effects of tax on business and individuals and the continuing high inflation will prevent any significant recovery in employment and in private sector consumption and investment. In other words, there is no chance whatsoever that the gross domestic product will increase by 5 per cent in real terms as the Budget postulates. In fact, if I were to predict what will happen, I would say that the gross domestic product at best will only break even and may slip by more than it did last year. I repeat: This is not a responsible Budget. It is a hoax. It will not result in a lowered inflation rate. It will not result in more employment. It will not give the needed incentive to the private sector. In other words, the people of Australia face another hard winter under this Government. 
Mention has been made quite a number of times during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs of the humanitarian aspects of the Government's funding within these estimates. The point I want to raise tonight is related to refugees who have come into Australia over a number of years and refugees who may possibly be seeking to come into Australia in the future. There is no doubt that in these troubled times- in fact, in recent historyrefugees have provided a major humanitarian problem throughout the world. Up until fairly recently Australia had a very proud record in relation to its acceptance of and treatment of applications for assistance to refugees who wished to come to this country. For instance, from 1945 to December 1973, 426 000 refugees arrived in Australia. Between 1945 and 1951, 50000 refugees from Soviet occupied Europe came to Australia. It is worth recalling that only the United States of America took more refugees from that area in that time. Between the years 1951 and 1961 the Australian Government spent the equivalent of $260,000 for the purpose of resettling refugees in Australia. In 1974 we took refugees from Cyprus and Chile. More than 2000 refugees have now come from Chile. 
I would like to speak briefly about that aspect of Australia's refugee program because it appears to me that refugees have become a political question rather than a humanitarian one under the Labor Government. 
-If the honourable member will wait a second he will hear why I believe that to be so. The fact of the matter is that we have had a number of refugees seeking to come to Australia from Chile over a number of years. Firstly, people from Chile were coming to Australia to escape the Allende regime. Those people were opposed to the policies of the Allende regime. They came to Australia and they were accepted here. I might add that they were not prisoners under the regime; they were not political prisoners. They came, as far as I can gather, of their own free will and they were accepted here as refugees from that regime. However, since the present junta has taken control in Chile a number of people have come to Australia from Chile. In many cases these people are political refugees straight from the prisons, and, I am informed, people who have not been accepted by other countries. I believe that we have an obligation to accept refugees, and political refugees amongst them. However, I become very concerned when I see developing in Australia a situation where refugees from the same country, taking 2 completely opposite political sides, are coming here in some numbers within a short period of time. I believe that in these circumstances there is very real danger of unrest, disturbance and violence within the Chilean community in Australia. And evidence has been put before me of political activities undertaken by these left wing political refugees who have come to Australia from Chile. 
I contrast that situation with the Labor Party's attitude towards allowing Vietnamese refugees to come to Australia. I believe that the attitude of the Government towards the plight of Vietnamese refugees has been nothing short of shameful. I think that all fairminded members of the Labor Party would believe in their heart of hearts that the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Whitlam)- we must remember that the Prime Minister's directive ensured that this policy came about-towards the request of Vietnamese students already in Australia and the request of Vietnamese refugees in many areas of the world to come to Australia has been little short of shameful. 
I would like to speak in more general terms about the potential refugee problems that face Australia. It seems to me that at the present time there is absolutely no co-ordinating body to oversee refugee movements. The Government has not revealed any plans to allow a discussion on possible mechanisms, on the possible organisation of some body to oversee future refugee movements into Australia. Is it going to continue to make judgments purely on political grounds as it seems to have done in relation to Chilean refugees in recent times, and particularly the Vietnamese refugees? Let me remind honourable members once again that nine of the Vietnamese refugees have been denied basic political rights in Australia and this is something that has never happened before in the history of this country. We need to know what the Australian attitude will be in the future, what sort of body will be formed and how potentially large refugee problems will be handled. We cannot continue with an ad hoc attitude, as we have at present, to likely refugee problems. At the present time refugees are coming to Australia from a number of countries. The most recently publicised country of course is East Timor. The Government's stand, as reported in the  Australian,  was that Australia would not allow refugees to settle in this country unless they could meet normal immigration standards. This is not an unusual stand to take but I believe the position must not be looked at in any harsh, illiberal or rigid way because in many cases for humanitarian reasons those normal immigration standards and requirements must be flexibly administered. 
I went up to Darwin to assess at first hand the way in which the Government was handling the problem of the East Timorese refugees arriving in Australia. One of the things which impressed me greatly was the need for clearly understood procedures, interdepartmental co-ordination and delineation of responsibilities between the various departments to be sorted out because there is no doubt that the political situation in countries around us could not be described as wholly stable. It is not unlikely that in the future we could have very large numbers of refugees arriving literally overnight at a great number of points along our northern coastline. It seems to me that if the political situation in the countries to our north should degenerate in the future Australia will be in a very different situation, a situation never before experienced in relation to its acceptance of refugees. In the past we have been able to decide how many refugees we would take, and what standards we would apply. We have been able to go to places away from Australia, select the refugees and bring them to Australia. The refugees have not been permitted to arrive on our doorstep of their own free will or under their own transport systems. 
This situation could change drastically in the future. There are within sailing distance of Australia populous nations where the political situation in the future may not be as stable as it is at the present time. As I said, we could be faced with a situation where large numbers of people sail to Australia, arrive in our ports or along our coastline and say: 'Here we are. What are you going to do with us?' I believe the present standards of administrative procedures clearly are not geared to deal with that sort of problem. I believe there is a very real need to give consideration to this potential situation. We all hope that it will not come about, but we need to take it into account. We need to make contingency plans so that, God forbid, should this situation come about Australia will not be faced with both the humanitarian and the health problems which could arise as a result of large numbers of people coming here from nearby countries, introducing a very difficult element into the Australian Government's reaction in terms of numbers, in terms of processing them, in terms of settling them or in terms of requiring them perhaps to return to the countries whence they came. 
I raise this point because I think the Timorese situation has shown us how difficult the situation can be if numbers of people do arrive suddenly without warning. Our administrative procedures must be able to cope with the problem, but at the moment they cannot. 
-As everybody knows we are debating the Estimates of the total Budget. Again, as everybody knows, the Budget has now been revealed as describing an overall picture of economic chaos brought about by this short period of Labor Party rule since 1972. I think that if any members of the Labor Party dispute this fact they should take the trouble to walk into any hotel or club in Australia, into any country town, into any business capital or into any unemployment office and thousands of Australians will tell them exactly what I have just told the Committee. 
Let us have a look more closely at some of the great achievements that the Government does not boast so much about. I refer to the 300 000 people out of work, 16 per cent plus inflation, private firms going out of business one after the other, large factories and plants putting off thousands of workers, schizophrenic fluctuations in import quotas and restrictions, share markets lying dormant and primary producers being forced off properties. What has resulted is a half baked piecemeal Budget that is deceptive in its generosity and unfeeling in its severity; a Budget that does nothing to rekindle incentive and initiative; a Budget that discriminates against the majority of middle bracket wage earners to the benefit of professional dole dependants rather than the genuinely needy. 
I suggest that no group in the community would be more vulnerable to potential disaster brought on by a downturn in employment opportunities than migrants and members of ethnic communities. Due to the present Government 's mismanagement of all things connected with immigration, language instruction is still grossly unsatisfactory, and we all know that understanding of the language is a major factor in job placement; counselling is backward and at present distrusted by those who seek to use it. The numbers of migrants- this is most significantreturning home is increasing. With 3 million Australians born outside Australia it is a recklessly irresponsible government that would continue with its seeming lack of interest in ethnic affairs, but continuing with it it seems to be doing. 
We all remember the disbandment of the Department of Immigration and the dramatic drop in morale within the Department. It caused a great deal of confusion among the ethnic communities. Valuable committees were disbanded. The Immigration Advisory Council lapsed. It has just been reconstituted. Consultation with ethnic groups was abandoned and effective channels of communication were closed. With full-time attention required to keep trade union demands under control, the present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  has been no different from his predecessor in apportioning only a fraction of his time to ethnic affairs. If  Senator James  McClelland can offer no more indication of his interest in immigration than letting commercial misfits such as Alice Cooper into the country I believe we have yet another example of appalling mismanagement or non-management on the part of the Government. 
Let us have a look at the vulnerability of nonEnglish speaking ethnic groups. Once a person with little knowledge of the language is sacked from his employment, which is usually as a result of some government inability to manage the economy, where is he supposed to find an alternative job? Often a person's training has been restricted to manual and semi-skilled occupations. When all factories and places of largescale personnel are laying off workers, what chance does the migrant have? With no reserve savings to fall back on, with no one in government willing to hear the migrant cause, with trade unions happy to take union dues but contemptuous and insensitive to migrant problems, it is no wonder that ethnic people in Australia are feeling more and more that they have been cheated by this Labor Government, and cheated they have been. They have families to support and to educate but no fully organised program of migrant education. They have health and psychological problems which need attention but no government action has been taken despite comprehensive investigations by migrant task forces and a host of concerned organisations. Language difficulties are undisputed and yet no effort has been made to establish a properly organised national committee to oversee interpreter needs, as recommended last year by the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. 
I could go on at some length further to document the miserable series of failures which this Government has made in the area of immigration. I shall identify first the principal complaint. As it has deserted the ethnic people of Australia, so I believe the Labor Government is deserting the needs of the population as a whole. It is totally involved in a legislative program which has proven to be ill conceived and badly thought out. I believe the Whitlam Labor Government will be viewed by later generations as one of the most fraudulent and hypocritical assemblies of hopeless fanatics and self-interested incompetents ever to claim to have a political mandate. I wish to turn to a few specific examples of this Government's treatment of ethnic minorities, in the Federal Budget for this year and the Department of Labor and Immigration estimates. For the Government which has made such a great claim about its concern for minority groups in the community, its determination to be rid of inequalities and its commitment to egalitarianism, the Treasurer's statements on immigration show those worthy principles to be reduced to something less than farcial. We may have expected something better but not from a government which is so well practised in deceit. In another outburst of miscalculations it showed to ethnic people of this country exactly what its true attitude was, an attitude so cursory and so patronising that the Government Printer had to waste no more than 3 lines on the whole ambit of the immigration field. Three lines were all that this Government could bother to give to perhaps the strongest determining factor we have today on the direction which the population and demographic trends are to take. It was not just an insulting reference of only 3 lines; the content of the Treasurer's remarks on immigration was as logically incomprehensible as it was short. For those honourable members who may have yawned and missed the remarks, he said: 
We have decided to double the migrant contribution towards assisted passage costs to an amount of $ ISO per family or single person. 
Those people who have done their arithmetic on Department of Labor and Immigration appropriations will find that this 3-lihe move will save the Government $5,665,000 in 1975-76 in a projected Budget deficit of $2.7 billion. As an accounting method to improve the nation's finances it is hardly worth the time of contemplation. The gain is negligible. The effect on those personally concerned is not far short of disastrous. 
Further, we are told that assisted passages are to be made unavailable to dependent parents. How is this a justifiable proposition from a government purporting to be concerned with family reunions and with the welfare and successful integration of migrant people? I believe this present Government is hidebound in deceit. These measures, which are designed further to impede the necessary immigration flow to Australia, are solely and indisputably a result of the Government's amateur and totally inept handling of the economy which has resulted, amongst other disasters, in a totally unacceptable level of employment. That situation particularly affects ethnic groups. If this Government were sincere in the matter the answer is not to disguise the progress of ever increasing unemployment by stopping the input of people and causing loneliness and despair among individual migrant families; the solution needs to be sought elsewhere- in better management and in reasoned policies. In terms of successful integration and the success of a smoothly interacting multi-ethnic community the Government's Budget measures are ill-judged. In terms of humanitarian understanding they are callous and unfair. 
We on this side of the House have publicly stated that our policy regarding assisted passages is one of continued support. Perhaps it will soon have to be one of reinstatement. We believe that the assisted passage element of family reunion is vital to the well-being of the migrant in the community. We have stated that immigration must be taken away from the present Government's restricting manpower considerations and placed in a much more broad context of a vital component of the nation's overall population policies. The ethnic people in this country are now well aware of the total disregard which the present Government has for their special problems. That disregard goes as far as to jeopardise family relations and happiness in the home. As in so many areas the Labor Government's record in the field of immigration is abysmal. As in so many areas much was promised to migrants and Australians of migrant background. Like many a young girl those people were seduced with smooth talking and large promises. They have been abandoned to carry alone the baby of neglect, disinterest and difficulty. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

-We are debating the estimates of a Department which we on this side of the chamber believe should not exist. Whilst I personally have some regard for the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)-  I am sure it gives him great pleasure to be the Minister for the Department of the Media- I can see no good reason for the continuation of the Department. In fact I can see a great number of reasons why it should be abolished forthwith. The expenditure under the estimates that we are considering today is a very great extravagance. For instance, over $ 137m is being expended by the Department this year. For comparison's sake, I point out that that is $55m more than the allocation for the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Yet if we look at the plight of manufacturing industry and of small business throughout Australia which in many instances need a great deal of financial help, and of course better policies, we can see that this is an unjustifiable expenditure of money and an amount which could be much better spent. The money goes to the Australian Government Publishing Service, the Australian Office of Information, and the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission, amongst others. 
Before referring to the detailed expenditure, I should like to draw to the attention of the Committee the comments of a Washington legal expert,  Mr Marcus  Cohen, who said earlier this year.  ... the mere existence of a Media Department was alarming because of the potential for abuse of power. 
I think this matter concerns a great number of Australians throughout the country at present. The mere fact that we have a Department of the Media gives rise to the suspicion that the Government is turning it into a department of propaganda. Unfortunately there are some aspects of the behaviour of the Department which would give rise to some concern along these lines. 
The history of the Department has been ' a most unhappy one. The first Minister was involved in a rather unsatisfactory affair, known as the Valenti letters.  Mr Valenti,  the head of the Motion Picture Export Association of America, was asked in a letter by the then Minister for the Media who the Minister should consider appointing to the Australian Film Board. This achieved some notoriety at the time and was made more unfortunate by the fact that a request for a job for the Minister's daughter was included in part of the correspondence. 
Since that time we have had the resignation of  Mr Philip  Adams as  Chairman  of the Film Board. We have had protests and unemployment within the television industry. We have had a delay in public broadcasting and community access radio. This delay really has not been explained away in any valid sense. There has been no regard given to the advice of the experts in the media field. I instance particularly the advice of  Dr Peter  Pockley. When access broadcasting or public broadcasting was introduced last year,  Dr Pockley  said that no clear guidelines had been established and that more time was required before this form of broadcasting could be put into effective use. I believe that the points system introduced by the previous Minister has been a total failure. There is no doubt that many members of the Australian television industry have pointed this out. The idea of the points system was to improve the lot of those people involved in the Australian television industry, particularly the actors and the writers. But I believe it has been shown to be a total failure. The first Minister for the Media has been described by Philip Adams as the biggest ministerial disaster in the Labor Government. Of course the Minister had a lot of competition for' that title. But, as I said, the history of the Department has been a most unhappy one. 
Then of course we had the present Minister's accession to the position. He came into this area with a blaze of triumph by suspending the licence of a Hobart media outlet. I believe that any objective assessment of the reasons for this suspension would show that the offence that was allege'd to have been committed, or which was in fact committed, was of &amp; very minor nature. I believe that the suspension was an attempt by the Minister to demonstrate his power. If he wished to do this, I believe he could have chosen a far more effective way of doing it rather than using his muscle on this particular media outlet. There has been an uproar within the written media due to the attempts of the Minister to start a media council and particularly a Press council. Some people have suggested that this is a clear indication of a government intention to control the freedom of the Press. If this is the case and if this suspicion can be sustained, then of course all those doubts, all those worries about the ministry becoming a propaganda machine would be seen to be justified. 
I should like to spend a little more time on ethnic radio because this is a subject which has created a great deal of interest within the ethnic communities right throughout Australia. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind about the need for an ethnic radio broadcasting system. For people who may have some doubts on this score, I shall cite some relevant figures in relation to the matter. In Sydney there are about 295 000 people who would be very interested in and who would benefit by the introduction of such a radio. In Melbourne there would be 374 000 people; Adelaide 96 000; Perth 64 000 and Wollongong 17 000. These figures do not include the people of ethnic background in Brisbane and Hobart. The Government has promised a great deal in relation to ethnic radio, but as in so many other areas, the performance has fallen far short of the promise. Only $100,000 has .been appropriated for ethnic radio. We have people involved in the continuation of the ethnic radio experiment literally being paid a pittance for putting on programs which require a great deal of detailed research, and in many cases, many hours of hard and diligent work. 
We find a situation developing where the Department of the Media has been moving into this area of ethnic radio broadcasting to the extent that a great number of people within the ethnic communities are very concerned that they- that is the people of the ethnic communities- will not have control over their own medium. They are concerned that they will not have access to it and will not have the rights that they believe they should have in relation to the control of programs, the decision as to what should be put on, how it should be put on and who should put it on. I believe there is a case, as I have said, for a clear decision to be made in favour of ethnic radio. The Government is to be commended for initiation of the experiment with radio 2EA in Sydney and radio 3EA in Melbourne. However the Government has not made the decision. It did form the Bayutti Committee to inquire into all aspects of ethnic radio broadcasting. That Committee I believe has reported to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As far as I know the Prime Minister has not brought the report into the House. I believe he should bring that report into the House as soon as possible. I believe that that report will show a real need within the ethnic community for an ethnic broadcasting station in order that so many aspects of life in Australia can be more adequately explained to people of ethnic background particularly those people who do not speak the English language. 
I believe it is important to people who have arrived in Australia that they retain some sense of identity, retain some sense of bilingualism and that they should have the aspects of cultural shock diminished. One of the most effective ways that this can be done is by the establishment of an ethnic radio broadcasting system. How should it be done? I wait anxiously to view and consider the Bayutti report. I believe that the delay in the presentation of that report- in no way the fault of its  Chairman-  is unacceptable. I believe that the report should be brought in and discussed in this House at the first available opportunity. Significant numbers of Australians are disadvantaged at present in their early life in Australia simply because they do not have access to programs in their own language, programs to which they can relate and programs that would help them in their integration into the total Australian society. 
-I wish to raise 4 matters in the debate on the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department this afternoon. Initially I wish to speak about the effect of the heavily increased postal rates on the earnings of charities in the coming year. The whole community is extremely grateful for the work of numerous charities throughout Australia and the fact that those charities exist saves the Australian taxpayer a great deal of money. If those organisations were not doing the work that they are doing the cost to the individual taxpayer to provide additional revenue for governments to do that work would be immense. The Labor Government seems to be dedicated to the objective of putting those charities out of business, particularly the charities which rely very heavily on sales of Christmas cards to make their money. 
I know that the rate of postage of Christmas cards has been reduced from 1 8c to 1 5c, but I believe that the law of diminishing returns will be operating very significantly in terms of the numbers of Christmas cards which people will buy or sell. I know that a great number of my acquaintances have simply refused to consider sending out Christmas cards. They did not send out Christmas cards last year and they certainly will not send out Christmas cards this year. That is simply because of the immense cost of posting the cards. They are quite happy to buy the cards to support the charities but the prohibitive cost of mailing cards has meant that they have made the decision not to proceed with what was a time honoured practice of sending Christmas cards and, in the process, supporting worthwhile charities. 
Some charities are not totally dependent upon the sale of Christmas cards for their income, but others are totally dependent, as far as I can gather, on the sale of Christmas cards. One group which I regard as worthy of the highest form of praise is the foot and mouth artists. I put myself in the position of a person who has lost the use of an arm or both arms and I imagine the immense amount of concentration and the tremendous effort that would be required to paint pictures with one's toes or by holding the paint brush in one's teeth. I believe the efforts involved in that say a tremendous amount for the courage of individuals, for people who are endeavouring not to be a burden on the community and who are endeavouring to make use of the skills which they possess to overcome frightful difficulties. One of the ways in which they do it is by selling 
Christmas cards and by reproducing paintings which they have painted by using the feet or by holding the brushes in the mouth. 
The savage increase in postal charges will virtually mean that that organisation faces an almost possible task in carrying on. Charities do much good throughout the community and save the Australian taxpayer an enormous amount of money. They involve a great number of people in doing worthwhile work and in bringing a great deal of help and succour to the unfortunate members of our community. It is a very great pity that the Australian Government has seen fit to support increases in postal charges to the extent to which they have been supported. Those increases will virtually bring to a standstill the income which would have been derived from the sale of Christmas cards. Rather than just reducing the amount by a token 3c I believe the Government should look again at the decision of the Australian Postal Commission to reduce the charge by only that amount. I believe it could be reduced by a significantly greater amount and if it were so reduced it would be a very worthwhile action on behalf of the Government. I urge the responsible Minister to see whether he can bring this about. 
Other people who are affected very greatly by the increased postal charges are those on fixed incomes. I refer to age and invalid pensioners. I have a number of people who fall into that category in my electorate, as have most other honourable members. I am sure that my experience has been repeated for other honourable members. A number of communications have been brought to me- not posted to me- by people complaining that one of the things to which they really look forward, communication with their friends and acquaintances, will be made that much more expensive by increases in charges for telephone calls and in postal charges. Those people do not have a great deal to look forward to. They depend a great deal upon the communications they have with their friends and acquaintances. 
Is the honourable member suggesting that they should not have the opportunity to write letters and to make telephone calls? That is the sort of level of feeling that government supporters have for the unfortunate members of our community- the people on fixed incomes, the people for whom they are supposed to have some regard and the people whom they are supposed to represent. It is no wonder the 
Government is losing so many seats in Tasmania. I believe the Government should look at a scheme whereby people who are on fixed incomes, who do not have the financial resources to meet the heavily increased charges, could have some concessions. 
Another area I should like to bring up is the telephone rentals which are charged to surf clubs. I mentioned this matter last year and nothing was done about it. Everybody acknowledges the enormous contribution which surf clubs make towards safety on the beaches and towards making Australia, in the eyes of the world, a safe place to swim and to surf. Such clubs have brought great credit on themselves and on the country. The members of the clubs are volunteers. They spend a large proportion of their time looking after other people and they find it extremely difficult to make ends meet. I acknowledge that the Australian Government has contributed an amount of money to the surf lifesaving movement, but it would be a small matter for the telephone rentals which are presently being charged to the surf clubs to be waived. After all, there are not so many surf clubs in Australia. The amount of money which is raised from the rentals would not be significant in the overall Budget. Yet the effect on individual surf clubs would be very significant. It would assist these clubs a great deal. I believe that it would be a most worthwhile gesture for this Government to make towards acknowledging the efforts and the contributions that members of surf clubs do make to the total Australian community. 
It is absolutely necessary for surf clubs to have telephones. It is not a matter on which these clubs have a choice on the need for a telephone. Obviously if they are to be involved in rescue operations they must have telephones so that they can get in touch with hospitals or the relatives of people rescued or make other necessary calls. Obviously it is important- indeed vital- for these clubs to have telephones. I believe, as I said, that it would be a significant contribution- and an important acknowledgment of the role of surf clubs- by this Government if telephone rentals charged to surf clubs could be waived. This action would not cost the Government very much. The effect on the surf clubs would be great. I believe that the whole community would benefit from such action. 
Finally, I make my perennial plea: Could we have more details, more action or at least some acknowledgment of what is happening in relation to the acquisition by Australia of satellite communications? I have been pursuing this matter virtually since I entered the Parliament. We get promises every year about what is going on. I would bring again before the Committee, the people and the relevant Minister the very real contribution that I believe the acquisition of satellite communications could make to the total communications network offered to the Australian people. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. Yesterday the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  claimed that I had misrepresented him by saying a report on migrant education had been virtually suppressed. The facts are these: My office sought a copy of the report. It was told by the Parliamentary Library that there were only 2 copies available and to get one we had to have it photocopied. We then rang the Department of Education. We were told that the report was virtually unobtainable, but it would get one for me and me alone because of my position. 
-I second the amendment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has clearly demonstrated in his address to the House this afternoon that this Government, this rabble of a Government, not only deserves to but must go to the people. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in the introduction to his speech said that we should endorse the economic measures taken by his Government. No one in his right mind would endorse the economic measures taken by this 
Labor Government. All we have to do is look very quickly at the record of this Government since it came to power in 1 972; note that we have at this stage record unemployment- an unemployment level higher than at any stage since the great depression; and realise that hundreds of thousands of school leavers face a situation in which they will have no opportunities to obtain jobs in the foreseeable future and no program designed by this Government which would offer them any hope of jobs becoming available. I believe that when we think about these things we should divorce our minds from the splendid rhetoric of members of the Labor Government and assess for ourselves the effect that such a prospect has on the future lives, the future ambitions, the future possible happiness of so many young Australians. 
In this instance I am not speaking about the great number of older Australians who have already lost their jobs. I speak particularly about the school leavers who face this dim and unwelcome prospect, a prospect which has been clearly spelt out by all speakers- clearly spelt out by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  himself when he revealed that as an estimate there will be 400 000 people out of work by the end of this year or the beginning of next year. Honourable members should place themselves in the position of migrants who have come to this country expecting opportunities to work, expecting that if they show enterprise, thrift and initiative and if they work hard they will be able to gain some reward for it and make a better life for themselves but more particularly for their families. Honourable members should assess the view of these people coming to Australia about the prospects that their families will inherit due to the economic mismanagement brought about solely by the efforts of this Government. 
It is not a constitutional crisis that we face at the moment Let no one be misled by those who say that it is a constitutional crisis. The constitutional position is quite clear. There may be a political crisis; it is certainly not a constitutional crisis. The political crisis has been brought about by the actions of dishonest men within a dishonest Government. Four people were involved in this notorious loans affair- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself, his then AttorneyGeneral, his then  Deputy  Prime Minister and his then Minister for Minerals and Energy. Three of those men have either left or been sacked. One remains. The Prime Minister constantly asserts that no charges of impropriety have been made. This has been given the lie yesterday and again today in the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean).  It is no longer tenable for this Government to say that it commands the support of the Australian people. If it believes that then let it have the courage to go to the Australian people and test it at the ballot box. It does not have that courage. I have the greatest pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen reports last week that a radio broadcasting licence was promised to a certain group by an employee of the Labor Administration? Is he aware that the name of the present Secretary of his Department was mentioned in the same article? Has a decision been made to grant a radio broadcasting licence to Prospect Broadcasting Company? Is that the company which was mentioned in the report last week? Has a writ in respect of that decision been served on the Minister? Will he assure the House that there is no truth in the suggestion that personnel involved with that company were promised a licence some time ago and that the Secretary of his Department was not involved in that promise? 
In answer to the honourable member's series of questions, I am aware that there has been some disquiet in Melbourne and in Sydney, and in fact in Canberra, about the alleged closing down of the interpreter courses. In fact this does not come within my portfolio responsibility, but naturally enough I am particularly interested in the role of interpreters and their employment, so much so that I have taken the matter up with the Minister for Education and the Prime Minister, and I hope I will be in a position to make further announcements shortly. 
The new procedures in no way lessen the protection afforded to the general Australian population because in fact those people who travel overseas and who are residents of Australia but who do not have Australian citizenship will be in exactly the same situation as they would have been if they had been required to obtain re-entry visas before they left. If they are found guilty of serious crimes overseas that fact presumably would be reported to the Australian authorities. If they contracted infectious diseases overseas, under the previous requirements they still would have been able to re-enter Australia simply because they already had re-entry visas stamped in their travel documents. So in no way is there a lessening of protection to the Australian population. Rather there is an easing of movement for people who are resident in Australia but who are not yet Australian citizens. Particularly of course does this apply to those people who have lived in Australia for a great number of years, whether they be of British origin or non-British origin. This particularly assists those people who have not seen fit to take out Australian citizenship. I do not think Australian citizenship should be forced upon anyone. I believe that the re-entry requirements introduced by the previous Government did have that effect upon people who were not yet Australian citizens. 
Figures as at last night indicate that there are just over 3500 people who have come forward claiming amnesty under our provisions. This is in marked contrast to a previous effort by a previous Administration when about 360-odd people came forward in a full year. On the best estimates we have, about 32 000 people would come under the amnesty conditions. The amnesty lasts until 30 April. I do not know of a single case where amnesty has been refused when people have come forward. I would encourage all who are covered by the amnesty provisions to come forward because it is in their best interests to do so. 
I do not have personal knowledge that the honourable member has made representations, but I believe what he says. I cannot give him the direct answers that he wishes, but I certainly will take up the matter with my colleague in the other place and ensure that he gets a reply. 
I claim to have been inadvertently misrepresented. 
I am very pleased that this question came up. I am also very pleased to announce that the Government will proceed with the training and employment of bilingual interpreters and translators in 1976. My Department will provide funds for the continuation of those specialised courses for the training of interpreters and translators at the institutions mentioned by the honourable member. I mentioned last week that I had contacted the Prime Minister, and I believe that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has been asked to investigate the possibility of assisting under the National Employment and Training scheme students who enrol in courses this year for training as interpreters or translators. I believe that the Minister has also been asked to ensure that every effort is made to assist people who have successfully completed the courses to obtain appropriate employment. I believe also that the Public Service Board has been asked to conduct as a matter of urgency a review of designations and work levels applying to interpreters and translators in the Australian Public Service. Finally, a more complete statement about these matters will be made after question time. 
I was very interested in the speech made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Unfortunately, as in so many of these cases, the honourable member has his facts a little wrong. I must defend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Like so many occupants of the Chair,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member has confused me because my name is MacKellar, with the honourable member for Mackellar. Whilst I do not offer any comment on the honourable member for Mackellar's ancestors I hasten to assure the honourable member for Melbourne that my ancestors did not come to this country under a cloud. 
I was interested in the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne because as he said he put his suggestions in what I believe to be a non-party political manner. I think that this was a very brave thing for him to have done because he represents a Party whose treatment of refugees and illegal migrants has been nothing short of disgraceful. In fact it was the administration of a former Labor Government which led to the problem which we find in Australia at the moment. We all know that every country has within its borders at any one time a number of illegal migrants. This situation is not restricted to Australia at all. These people may be ships' deserters. They may be castaways. They may be visitors who have overstayed their time. They may fit into a number of categories. Australia has migrants who fit into these categories as well. At any one time the average number of illegal migrants in Australia is said to be around 7000 to 9000 people. With the introduction of what was known as the easy visa system by a former Labor 
Administration the number of people who became overstayed visitors in fact rose dramatically. I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne will agree with that statement. I know that he does because I see him nodding his head. We were confronted with a situation in which we had to decide what to do with a number of people who technically were here illegally. We could say that they did not existthis was an attitude taken by the previous Government- or we could say that they did exist and we should seek them out and deport them. The costs of seeking them out and the heartache, disruption and lack of humanity involved with deporting people, many of whom, as the honourable member rightly said, came here in good faith, in a number of cases at the instigation of unscrupulous travel agents overseas, would be great. I stress that part of the problem was brought about by the activities of overseas travel agents who convinced unsuspecting would-be visitors that they could come to Australia and easily make their homes here and change their status. All sorts of rackets went on. 
We had to deal with this problem. We decided that the most humane way of dealing with it would be to announce an amnesty. The honourable member for Melbourne in fact applauded our decision. I have here a telegram dated 24 December 1975 which he sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He called on the new Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to clarify the election promise of amnesty for illegal immigrants. I stress the words of that telegram sent by the honourable member. In part of that long telegram he said: 
The only conditions should be that they should be lawabiding citizens and have expressed the desire to settle in our country permanently. 
He did not say anything about protection of the health of the community or of the individual concerned. All he said was: 
The only conditions should be that they should be lawabiding citizens and have expressed the desire to settle in our country permanently. 
I replied to that telegram on 5 February saying that I noted what he had said and I hoped he now would support the Government in its activities. What did the honourable member do? I take his point that this is a debate without heat but certainly I think I should point out to the House the activities of the honourable member for Melbourne in relation to the Government decision. He was reported in the  Australian  of 22 December under the headline: 
Migrant Amnesty Challenge to PM. 
This is contained in the telegram I have just read. We announced the amnesty on Australia Day. The very next day, Tuesday, 27 January this report appeared in the  Australian: 

 Mr Ted Innes (ALP, Victoria) said he knew of a hundred immigrants who are in Australia unlawfully. But he had told them: 'Hold off'. 
That could hardly be described as total support for the concept of the amnesty. 'Hold off', he told them on the very first day that the amnesty came into effect. Imagine the situation in which we were endeavouring, as the honourable member has said, to give people the opportunity to come out of the darkness, to make a full life for themselves in Australia. The very first day that the amnesty was in effect the honourable member for Melbourne said: 'I am advising people to hold off'. The words are there for everyone to read. It must make me as the responsible Minister, feel a need to be a little careful when I listen to the speeches made by the honourable member because actions speak louder than words in many cases and here we have the honourable member, on the day the amnesty came into effect for the first time, telling people to hold off. 
The honourable member made some other statements. One was that he had consulted with ethnic groups. The implication was that I had not consulted beforehand with ethnic groups in relation to the amnesty or after the amnesty was announced. The simple truth is that I did consult with ethnic groups. I consulted with officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the States and gave them explicit instructions that people applying for amnesty should be treated with the utmost consideration and humanity. I called a Press conference in Melbourne which many representatives of the ethnic newspapers attended. They reported the amnesty offer in quite strong detail. They have continued to report it in quite strong detail. So I believe that the implication in the honourable member's speech that we had not consulted with ethnic groups does not stand up when one looks at the facts. 
The honourable member made a number of suggestions. Firstly, he said that we should extend the amnesty to the end of the year. Let me deal with that first. The amnesty is designed to overcome a situation, largely not of our making, in which a great number of people find themselves in Australia illegally. The essence of the exercise is that it should be short and sharp, and I will tell honourable members why. If it is not, discrepancies will emerge. For instance, people who entered after the amnesty eligibility period will complain that they are being discriminated against because they are being less favourably treated than are the amnesty applicants. In other words, genuine visitors to Australia during the period of the amnesty will say: 'We are doing the right thing. We have come here and applied for legal status to remain in Australia. People who are here illegally are being given that status and we are being refused it'. So it is essential that the period of the amnesty be short and sharp to cut down the discrepancies which could occur. Already there are hints that efforts are being made to abuse the amnesty. I do not wish to enlarge on this matter at all, but it is certainly being watched extremely carefully by members of my Department. The opportunity for abuse of the amnesty would be very greatly increased if the period was extended to the end of this year as the honourable member has suggested. He said that it needs to be extended because people are not hearing about it. I have no evidence to suggest that that is correct. I find that the grapevine operates extremely well within the ethnic communities and that the amnesty has been taken up by the ethnic Press. We have made broadcasts over ethnic radio but I understand that ethnic radio does not cover a wide area. As at this stage it is confined to Sydney and Melbourne. 
The honourable member interjects: 'What about the result?' Let me tell him about the result. The amnesty has been going for about 4 weeks now. So far about 4050 people from over 76 different countries have applied for amnesty. Let me contrast that with a roughly similar effort extending over a year by a government of the honourable member's persuasion. I believe that in that period of a year the total number of people who came forward amounted to 360 or 370. I just cite that as an example of the trust in which these people hold the 2 respective Parties. I believe that the trust of people in our offer is being demonstrated by the numbers coming forward. Significantly, it is in the area of Melbourne the city in which the honourable member resides, the city in which he made the statement that he had told illegal immigrants to hold off; in fact the city with the most migrants that the numbers are not as high one would have hoped. If the honourable member is serious about what he has said he should make a wholehearted effort to encourage people who come within the ambit of the amnesty offer to come forward and, as he has said, regularise their legality in Australia, make certain that they can live a full and active life, and in time become full Australian citizens. It is up to him from this point on to make sure that he convinces all the people he is in association with that the offer is genuine and that they should take advantage of it- 
He says that it is up to me to make clear the criteria. Let me quote from a Greek newspaper not noted for its support of my side of politics the  Neos Kosmos  dated 5 February. It referred to the Press conference that I had in Melbourne and said: 
There were 2 criteria for illegal immigrants to become permanent residents: health and police record. 
The persons would have to undergo a medical examination, like all other migrants. In cases of serious illness such as TB, they would be helped by the medical authorities to stay here permanently. 
Provided they did not have a serious police record such as involving narcotics, theft and murder, the persons would qualify for permanent residence. Trivial offences such as failure to send in income tax returns -  which the honourable member has mentioned here today- 

 Mr MacKellar pointed out, would not be held against them. At this stage, it was advised that all illegal immigrants working under their own or an assumed name contact the Taxation Department and rectify their form. Practically everyone was entitled to a refund. They would not be prosecuted by the Taxation Department or other authorities. 

 Mr MacKellar has given a guarantee that the amnesty offer is genuine and not a trap. The  Neos Kosmos  accepts the guarantee and asks all illegal immigrants to report to the Department of Immigration without delay. 
So that is a newspaper which again refutes the points that the honourable member has brought up. 
The honourable member has put forward a number of other suggestions. He suggested that all people living in Australia before 31 December should be granted permanent status, if they wished it. I would just point out to him that there were approximately 155, 000 people visiting Australia as at 3 1 December last year. Surely the honourable member is not seriously proposing that any one of those 155, 000 people or the whole 155 000 should be granted legal residence in Australia if they so wish it. Obviously it would make a nonsense of any immigration program. It would set back those people who genuinely have been waiting to come to Australia as legal migrants. I am sure the honourable member's trade union colleagues would react very strongly to such a suggestion. 
The honourable member said that all lawabiding persons should be allowed the amnesty. I have just dealt with that. They will be. The honourable member mentioned taxes and false names. That has been spelt out in the migrant ethnic Press. The honourable member mentioned offences related to illegality. Again I say that only serious crimes will result in people not being given the amnesty. I am sure the honourable member would not support the suggestion that people with serious criminal records either here or overseas should be allowed to stay in Australia. I am sure the honourable member would agree with that. He acknowledges his agreement by nodding his head. The honourable member referred to the setting up of an appeals tribunal. Let me tell him about an appeals tribunal in Canada which has a situation in relation to migrants roughly similar to that which we have in Australia. Canada introduced an appeals tribunal. It found that within a few years the backlog of cases waiting for hearing numbered 17 500 and it was estimated that at the rate at which appeals could be dealt with, people then appealing would not have their appeals heard for 2 decades. We do not want that sort of situation to occur in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I have heard reports of people and organisations who have cautioned those migrants who come within the terms of the amnesty recently announced by the Government not to come forward to take advantage of the offer. In fact in this House only yesterday the honourable member for Burke said that he had so advised a number of people in his constituency. When the amnesty began the honourable member for Melbourne also advised some of the people in his constituency to, in his words, 'hold off'. There have been reports that certain trade union organisations as well have said that people who come within the ambit of the amnesty should go to their trade union before they go to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
Anybody or any organisation advising people coming within the terms of the amnesty to be cautious of it, or not to take up the offer, will have that advice on their conscience for the rest of their lives. An opportunity is being given to people to come forward and to regularise their status in Australia so that they can live a full and complete life, and in the fullness of time become citizens of Australia with all the rights and privileges that that involves. As I have said, in my view people who advise others not to take advantage of the amnesty are guilty of a very gross dereliction of duty. I would advise everyone who knows of any person who comes within the ambit of the amnesty to make sure that that person is advised to take advantage of it as quickly as possible. 
I shall answer the last question first. No, the Government certainly has not sought to impede the ability of legitimate refugees from Cyprus to come to Australia. Secondly, as the honourable member would know, it is the responsibility of people on the spot to assess the applications for visitor visas, to decide whether or not an application is a bona fide request to travel to Australia as a visitor. In the past, visitor visas have been abused. People have come here, saying that they were coming as visitors, but in fact have come with the intention of making permanent residence in Australia. So it is the responsibility of the people on the spot to make the decision. I am not aware that, as alleged by the honourable member if I understand him correctly, all people applying to the Cyprus office for visitor visas have been refused. I doubt that that would be the case, but I shall investigate the matter. 
I will answer the question. This is a very technical area but the fact is that visas do not admit people to Australia. One has to have an Entry Permit to enter. The visa is required for travel to Australia. There are agreements with carrier companies to make sure that people travelling to Australia have valid visas. There are certain exemptions in respect of people who are not required to have valid visas. These 2 gentlemen, I am informed, who were not exempt from the requirement to have visas, travelled to Australia without the necessary visas. However, to get into Australia they needed an entry permit. 
Some people, such as diplomats or representatives of foreign governments, travel on diplomatic passports and are exempt under the Migration Act from the need to have entry permits. I am informed that, although they travelled on diplomatic passports, these 2 gentlemen by saying that they were here to visit relatives and not on official business removed themselves from that exemption. However, I am informed that they were met by an officer from the Department of Foreign Affairs and were accorded the courtesies usually extended to people such as diplomats or representatives of foreign countries who are not required to have entry permits. 
-Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs)- Pursuant to section 42 (d) of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948-1973 1 present the annual return of persons granted certificates of Australian citizenship during the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, I do. In the course of the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  he suggested to the House that I had misled the House in some way in my reply to a question which I was asked yesterday. It applied to the travelling arrangements that 2 Iraqi gentlemen had when they arrived in Australia. The initial advice to me, submitted on 25 February, was that both Iraqi visitors were travelling on diplomatic passports. Subsequent to the answer I gave in the House yesterdayhonourable members will recall that I was not in the House at question time on Tuesday as I was in Adelaide- I was advised that one was travelling on a diplomatic passport, the other was travelling on an Iraqi official passport. On arrival the Primary Officer, Customs, consulted with the Senior Immigration Officer on duty who gave approval for temporary entry to Australia on the basis that the people concerned were diplomatic or official personnel being formally met by an official of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In essence the answer I gave was correct. The only perhaps misleading aspect of it was that I said that both were on diplomatic passports. In fact, that was the advice that I had when I gave the answer. I have subsequently been informed that one was on a diplomatic passport and the other was on an official passport. 
I have no hesitation about tabling it. 
-As the House would know, prior to the honourable gentleman asking his previous question on this matter I had contacted the Prime Minister in relation to the courses under discussion. In fact, as a result of that consultation the courses are being funded from my Department for the remainder of this financial year. The question of the future funding of the courses is one for the appropriate Minister, who is not at this stage myself. Of course any assurances would have to come as a result of Government consideration of the question. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on: 
a) environmental aspects of legislative and administrative measures which ought to be taken in order to ensure the wise and effective management of the Australian environment and of Australia's natural resources, and 
such other matters relating to the environment and conservation and the management of Australia's natural resources as are referred to it by- 
the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, or 
resolution of the House. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of eight members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and 

 Deputy Chairman are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such subcommittee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
10) That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee have power to move from place to place and to sit during any recess. 
13) That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any recess, sittings or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation appointed during the Twenty-eighth and Twentyninth Parliaments. 
19) That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was first appointed in May 1973 as the result of a recommendation by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation. Since its inception the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has inquired into many issues of importance for environmental protection and has produced several valuable reports, including those on the environmental impact of freeways, the Blackbutt Reserve, the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act 1967-72, and development pressures on Jervis Bay. In recommending the continuance of this Committee I remind honourable members of the urgency which is being felt by the general public about environmental problems. 
We can no longer afford to neglect such problems. The long term consequences of our actions must be recognised and present environmental problems solved if we are to have any control over the future quality of the human environment. In the past the existence of standing committees has enabled the House of Representatives to be involved in initial and formative consideration of a wide range of major environmental problems. Information gained by honourable members in carrying out the duties associated with such committees has given them a broader insight into major issues confronting Australia today. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the case put by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I recall that he started off by saying that this area of interest is of considerable importance to the future organisation and distribution of population in Australia and the future way of life of a great number of Australians. I agree with him on this point. He went on to say that the growth centre concept, as developed by the previous Labor Administration, would do a great deal to ease pressures in the cities. He developed that theme to some extent. He also mentioned in passing the population growth. It was a very brief reference and I am sorry that he did not give it more attention because I believe that this is one of the crucial points in any consideration of any growth centre program or decentralisation program whether it is called a growth centre program or not. It seems to me to be axiomatic that when we are considering a program such as the one put forward by the honourable member, involving the expenditure of a great amount of money obtained both from the taxpayer and also from investment by private industry, we should consider the likely results of the anticipated population growth both in extent and nature. I will deal with that a little more in the later stages of my reply to the honourable member. 
Naturally enough, he spent a great proportion of his speech dealing with the problems of Geelong, and well he might in view of the result that he achieved in the recent federal election for his own seat. That was spectacular for the length of time taken before the final result was announced. I guess it is merely coincidence that he has raised this matter shortly before the Victorian State elections later this month. 
I point out to the honourable member that in the 1975-76 Budget the then Labor Government did not make any allocation for Geelong. I hasten to add, though, that consideration was to be given to an allocation following the passage of the Geelong legislation through the Victorian Parliament and the reaching of an intergovernmental agreement with Victoria. I am informed that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who was the Minister at that stage, advised the Victorian Minister that following the successful passage of that legislation and the agreement, funds to the extent of about $500,000 would be made available. As the honourable member for Corio pointed out, the Geelong legislation has been passed by the Victorian Parliament and Victoria is in the process of making appointments to the authority and is also advertising for staff. But given the present situation, it is unlikely that the Geelong Regional Authority will be operational for some months yet, and as a consequence of that the demand for funds in the remainder of the 1975-76 financial year is likely to be reasonably minimal and perhaps could quite easily be met by the Victorian Government itself. Whilst the honourable member pointed out that funds had not been allocated I think that if he looks at the situation in regard to the funds needed he will admit that the amount of funds needed in the rest of this financial year is fairly minimal and could easily be provided by the Victorian State Government. In the 1973-74 Budget $3m was allocated to Geelong, and that was not taken up. In the 1974-75 Budget $20m was allocated to Geelong, and that was not taken up. 
Naturally enough, the honourable member in his address to the House supported the growth centre concept as developed by the Australian Labor Party, the implementation of which was started by the then Minister, the honourable member for Reid. I would like to go into this matter a little further because it should not be imagined that the concept of decentralisation or of growth centres, to use the current phrase, was developed solely by the ALP. It certainly was not. In fact the moves made by the ALP Administration followed, to a certain extent, the initial moves made by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. I would like to point out to members of the House, in case there be some misapprehension on this point, that this Government has honoured all its commitments to provide financial assistance for programs agreed with the States for the 1975-76 financial year. This applies to Albury-Wodonga, BathurstOrange and the Sydney south-west sector. As a consequence of the honouring of these commitments the relevant States have been able to proceed with the planned programs without interruption. So it is quite wrong for anyone to suggest that the actions of the present Federal Government have in any way inhibited the States in the development of their programs in relation to these centres. The actual development of the program followed the establishment of the National Urban and Regional Development Advisory Committee by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government before the Labor Party came to power in 1972. 
One should always bear in mind that any growth centre program will make enormous demands upon national resources both in the public sector and in the private sector. I use the word 'enormous' quite legitimately, I believe, and quite deliberately. Everyone is very much aware that the previous Government spent money like it was going out of style. As a consequence the Federal Government is now facing the largest deficit that certainly I can recall in the history of Australia. The previous Government had a propensity to try to achieve too much too soon. I believe that many members of the Australian Labor Party have made that self-criticism. We do not want to fall into the same trap of acting before having thought through the difficulties associated with the implementation of any program, particularly one which creates such enormous demands upon national resources. As a result of the previous Government's extravagancesthis has been reiterated- the present Government has been forced into the position of undertaking a complete review of its expenditure programs in an endeavour to achieve savings. Obviously the amount of projected expenditure in the growth centre area was very large, and obviously there had to be a review. There has to be a review of proposed expenditure in this area. 
This action is necessary because of the expected high Budget deficit and the consequent adverse effects upon the national economy which would inevitably arise in the absence of corrective action. I am sorry the honourable member for Corio is leaving the chamber. He introduced this matter of public importance.  His  departure seems to suggest that he has not the interest which he at first professed. I make this point clear to all honourable members: The Government is aware of the desirability of an early policy decision on growth centres. Again I must make the point that many complex issues are involved in the commitment to the program. They must be resolved before the necessary commitment of resources can be made to programs which go into the long term. Here I would like to refer to the Borrie Committee report which I do not believe was taken sufficiently into account by the previous Minister or his Department when they were drawing certain conclusions about the feasibility of their growth centre program. In any long term development of this nature, dependent as it is upon certain assumptions of the size, nature, composition of the Australian population in the medium and long term, obviously we must take into consideration the results of detailed investigation, as presented in the Borrie Committee report. 
I would not be at all surprised to learn- I would like confirmation from the honourable member for Reid- that the original growth centre concept was based upon a projected population in Australia of over 20 million by the year 2000. The most plausible assumption set out in the Borrie Committee report is that the net immigration intake will be approximately 50 000 a year and that the replacement rate of natural population will be approximately one. If we look at what is happening in relation to the population growth in Australia at the moment we find that the net immigration intake is significantly lower than the 50 000 postulated by Professor Borrie, and the net replacement rate is significantly lower than one. Even with a 50 000 net immigration intake and a replacement rate of one, the population of Australia by the year 2000 would be approximately 17.6 million, which is significantly less than the 20 million plus envisaged when the original growth centre concepts were being drawn up and plans were being made. 
We are not sure that the previous Government paid sufficient regard to the cost effectiveness of its consultations and activities with the States in implementing the programs. We believe that we should be greatly concerned with evaluating how financial assistance and other expenditures can go further in helping to achieve social and economic objectives in regional development. I am quite certain that the honourable member for Corio and myself would be in agreement about the achievements that we are hoping to gain in social and economic objectives in regional development. It is the question of how we go about them where we may differ. From our review of the expenditure programs in the urban field it appears that, given the competition which we have for scarce national resources, the previous Government concentrated too much on the provisions of assistance for land purchase well ahead of need. It seeems obvious to the present Government that the emphasis should change to developmental works. If that occurred, it would be consistent with our aim of providing a boost to the private sector and of providing employment. We need to marry the interests of the Government and of the private sector in the economy if we are to achieve what all of us hope to achieve, and that is desirable social and economic objectives in regional development. 
We believe the previous Government was too concerned with having all development carried out by the public sector, to the detriment of growth and employment in the private sector. I think this is demonstrated by the fact that we had the highest unemployment in the history of Australia since the Great Depression, brought about as a consequence of the policies pursued by the previous Labor Administration. Therefore this Government, before it can make a decision, must examine the means by which the role of the private sector can be expanded significantly in growth centres. Therefore I think it should be obvious to all members that the issues which I have canvassed in this debate are very complex ones. We believe it would be irresponsible of this Government to embark on a program which involves public sector expenditure of many billions of dollars, not just millions, over the next 20 years or so before such issues are resolved. A decision needs to be taken. It will be taken. That decision should not be and will not be taken lightly or without due consideration of all the factors involved. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1975 I present the annual report on the administration of that Act for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974-1975 I present 15 agreements made under the provisions of that Act relating to New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer to advance to the States this financial year the sum of $364.6m for welfare housing in accordance with the provisions of the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement. This amount will be distributed among the States as follows: 

<graphic href="098131197603180_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

The level of advances for 1975-76 is as determined by the previous Government and this amount has been provided in the 1975-76 Budget. We are maintaining this level of spending for welfare housing despite our overall policy of stringent restraint on public sector spending. Advances for 1975-76 will be somewhat less in real terms than the record level set in 1974-75-$385.4m-but still high compared with earlier years. 
Some States are currently experiencing difficulties in maintaining their welfare housing programs- difficulties, I might add, that are a direct legacy of the previous Government. Let me explain this. Funds available to the States for welfare housing increased from $ 169.8m in 1972-73 to $2 18.7m in 1973-74. The funds made available for welfare housing escalated even further in 1974-75. When the initial allocation of $235m was made, the States were informed that further funds would be provided if they could demonstrate that they had the capacity to spend more. This encouraged the States to accelerate their programs and the advances actually made in 1974-75 rose sharply to $385.4m, and increase of about 60 per cent over the original allocation. Then, in the 1975-76 Budget, the inevitable happened. The enormous expansion in advances to the States was brought to an abrupt halt and total advances in 1975-76 were held at about their 1974-75 level. 
Because of the earlier rapid expansion of their programs, most States have had to curtail commencements sharply in 1975-76 to permit the completion of houses already under construction. As a result, the level of government building activity has declined. Nevertheless Housing Agreement commencements which constitute the bulk of State government housing activity will probably exceed 7000 in 1975-76. Although this figure is significantly less than the 1 1 463 Housing Agreement commencements in 1974-75, completions in 1975-76 are expected to reach a record level of 13 800. Overall, therefore, the public housing programs in the States in 1975-76 will still be substantial. 
Meanwhile, signs of recovery in the private sector emerged around the middle of 1975 and a continued high level of activity in most States can be expected. Loan approvals for housing, local government approvals amd commencements have all been expanding strongly since mid-1 975 and point to further expansion in private commencements during the coming year. In the December quarter, dwelling approvals were running at the rate, seasonally adjusted, of 137 800 private and 7900 government, totalling 145 700, compared with 90 800 private and 20 900 government, a total of 1 1 1 700 in the December quarter of 1974. Commencements for the 1975 December quarter were running at the annual rate, seasonally adjusted, of 125 400 private and 132 400 total. Comparable figures for the same quarter in 1 974 were 96 300 private and 1 1 3 900 total commencements. The expected continued high level of activity in the private sector should go some of the way towards taking up the slack emerging in the government sector. 
The Bill also authorises the Treasurer to pay to the States in the first 6 months of 1976-77 the sum of $ 182.3m, which is half the allocation for 1975-76. This amount will be distributed on the same basis as the advances for the current year. In other words, the Treasurer will be authorised to continue payments to the States for welfare housing in the period from 1 July 1976 until an appropriation measure for 1976-77 is passed by the Parliament. As well, the Bill recognises that, in exceptional circumstances as occurred this year when passage of the authorising legislation was delayed, it may be necessary to continue payments beyond the 6-month period for which specific financial provision is made. The Bill provides that interim payments may be made for welfare housing under the authority of section 5 of the Financial Agreement Act 1928 as advances supplementary to the advances under the approved Loan Council program. 
The advances to be authorised by the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill are repayable over a period of 53 years. The rate of interest payable on advances during the full 5-year term of the Agreement is fixed at 4 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the State housing authorities and 4V4 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the home builders' accounts of the States. The apportionment of the allocations between the State housing authority and the home builders' account for each State was determined by consultation between the Minister for Housing and Construction in the previous Government and the Housing Minister of the State concerned. The repayable interest-bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made from either Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. Provision is made for any payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from the Loan Fund, when the Treasurer considers this appropriate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a summary record of proceedings of the third meeting of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers held in Canberra on 1 August 1975. 
In order to clear up what is perhaps a misapprehension, I should point out that I did not make an announcement that we were attempting to lure more British migrants to Australia. What I said in response to some questions from some journalists was that I was very concerned about the attitude which had been reported to me as being present in Britain among people who may be considering migrating from Britain. It is an attitude which suggested that they did not think Australia would welcome them if they applied to come here. I wish to reverse that attitude of thought amongst potential migrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. I believe this attitude has been developed as a result of the performance of the previous Government, particularly in relation to such issues as the changing of the anthem, the probable changing of the flag and the abolition of appeals to the Privy Council. I believe an antiBritish feeling was developed and this was reflected in the attitude of potential migrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. I point out to the House that a high proportion of our skilled migrants come from the United Kingdom. Once the economic recovery gets under way in Australia we will be needing skilled migrants from all over the world. I would say to those who have seen this as a call for more British migrants that this is not the case. What I am seeking to do is to engender a positive attitude amongst potential migrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. 
The speech just delivered by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  is one of the most extraordinary speeches that I have heard in this House for quite some while. We all know that the Australian Labor Party is imbued with the conspiracy theory to an extent which must worry quite considerably the medical members of the Party. I have not heard for quite some time the conspiracy theory expounded at such length and in such a way as would cause more worry. 
Let me just reiterate what the honourable member for Chifley put forward. The whole reason for the reports which he said are circulating today is that we are going to impair the quality of Australian Broadcasting Commission's programs and thereby force people to listen to commercial stations. That is an interesting concept, but I wonder whether he can base his assertions on fact at all. Secondly, he said- this is a fascinating suggestion- that we are going to create insecurity amongst the ABC staff and thereby force them to self criticism, and that that self criticism will result in their entering into a situation in which they are not as critical of the Government as they otherwise would be, and that as a result of that, of course, people will go back once again to the commercial stations. Finally he said that all this is going to come about because we want to repay the commercial radio interests for the support given to the present government during the last election campaign. 
That is a fascinating conspiracy theory, because I did not hear any of these sorts of statements being made following the 1972 election campaign during which a great proportion of public affairs commentators taking part in sessions on commercial radio in fact supported the Labor Party. They were all jolly good fellows during the 1972 election campaign! Suddenly, as a result of the Australian Labor Party's being defeated, and defeated so decisively at the last election, they have all become wicked, and we are the most wicked of all; we are trying to muzzle the ABC. The honourable member for Chifley, of course, is giving as the basis for his comments rumours circulating amongst Press men. It really is not good enough in terms of a debate on possible government attitudes towards the ABC or ethnic radio. It is based on a tissue of rumours circulating around the place, and obviously it has no basis in truth. 
I was interested in the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who suggested, virtually by innuendo, that  Dr Hackett,  who is Acting  Chairman  of the ABC, is not quite up to the job. He said that it was a bad thing that Professor Downing had died some S months ago, I believe it was, and that no appointment had been made subsequent to that. In a way this is a criticism of the job that  Dr Hackett  is carrying out. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that  Dr Hackett  was in fact appointed a commissioner by the previous Labor Government and I believe he has been doing a very good job since he has been appointed Acting  Chairman. 
The Leader of the Opposition went on to talk at some length about the suggested attitudes of the Liberal Party towards the independence of the ABC. I have been in this Parliament for 7 years now and I remember very clearly suggestions being made during my first period here between 1969 and 1972 when we were in government that we intended somehow to interfere with the independence of the ABC. I remember the then Postmaster-General getting up in this Parliament time after time and defending absolutely the independence of the ABC. The independence of the ABC was guaranteed by previous LiberalNational Country Party governments and it will be guaranteed by the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr EricRobinson)  who spoke previously made it very clear that- I quote him- there is no threat to the independence of the ABC. That is what he said, and an assurance to that effect was given today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not think any evidence can be adduced to suggest that the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is under threat at the moment. 
This afternoon I want to speak about that part of the matter proposed for discussion which relates to ethnic radio. The matter was stated in these terms: 
The threats to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and ethnic radio. 
A threat to ethnic radio is implicit in those terms, but the implied threat has not been made clear. Let me briefly go over the history of ethnic radio. It was started in about the middle of last year as an experiment. After some time, when the experimental period came to an end, it was extended by the then Labor Government. That experimental period has been extended again by the present Government. So no real threat to the continuance of ethnic radio can be deduced from the evidence. In fact this Government has a direct commitment to the continuation of ethnic radio. 
I will quote that commitment: 
A Liberal-National Country Party government will further the potential of ethnic community access radio stations as both a means of language instruction and cultural dissemination. Ethnic involvement in the running and programming of these stations will be encouraged to the fullest and care will be taken to ensure a balanced and representative utilisation of the medium. 
This means that we have a firm commitment to the continuation of ethnic radio. As I have already pointed out, the ethnic radio broadcasts conducted so far have been on an experimental basis only. Let me hasten to add that the experiment has been extremely successful. If one looks at the sizes of the audiences of various radio stations, whether conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission or by commercial companies, one must appreciate that both the ABC and the commercial operators are envious of the audiences commanded by the ethnic radio stations. There is a potential audience of over 400 000 people in both Melbourne and Sydney. A high proportion of those people listen to ethnic radio. I commend the initiative; the experiment has been a success. 
Now we come to the difficult part, the form in which ethnic radio will be put on a permanent basis. It is all very well for the Labor Party to say that we should be doing this or that. It did not make the decision when in power and when it had the opportunity to do so. We must remember that the Labor Government extended the experimental period rather than make a decision as to the final form that permanent ethnic radio should take. Obviously this Govenment has the same difficulty. We have to make a decision as to the form permanent ethnic radio will take. 
There are a number of ways in which this can be done. It can be fully funded by the Government or partly funded by the Government. It can be done strictly with commercial funding. Any responsible government must look at all the options, particularly when making a decision that will have a far reaching effect bo.th now and in the future. It is not something which should be decided without a great degree of consideration, particularly as the interests of minority groups are very important in making the final decision. I acknowledge that in any consideration of the future of ethnic radio it is absolutely imperative that the rights and privileges of minor ethnic groups within the community be taken into consideration. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has already said that an interdepartmental committee has been meeting to discuss these problems. That is no secret. He has already suggested to the House that the report of that committee should be finalised this week and that the Government will be making a decision as to the future permanent structure of ethnic radio within a short time. 
There is absolutely no threat to ethnic radio contained in anything that I have said. In fact there is a continuing commitment to a permanent form of ethnic broadcasting. I certainly support a permanent form of ethnic broadcasting. The exact structure and organisation of that ethnic broadcasting remains a decision for the Government to take and it will be taking it in the very near future. 
-The Government in fact has made an announcement about its attitude towards potential migrants from the Lebanon. As the honourable member would be aware, the situation in that country is extremely difficult. The Australian Embassy has had to be moved and I believe it is operating out of a hotel at this stage. A senior migration officer has remained in the Lebanon despite the difficulties associated with his continued presence there and the dangers to his life. There are a great number of applications for people to come from the Lebanon and in assessing those applications obviously we must give preference and priority to close family reunions. 
The number of applications means that we cannot deal with all of them, particularly as we have only one officer in Beirut. We are giving preference to cases involving close family reunions. I believe that our officer deserves the greatest credit for the manner in which he is carrying out his duties in that position. We also are assisting Lebanese visitors in Australia by allowing them to apply for an extension to their visitor visas so that they may stay here until the situation becomes clarified. The individual cases of people who have escaped from the Lebanon and who have applied to come here are being looked at also. 
Yes, I am aware that a great number of representations have been made to individual members in relation to this matter. Honourable members will be aware of the Government's commitment to introduce a homes savings grant scheme. However, there have been certain administrative difficulties in devising a scheme that is fair to everyone. Having said that, I should make it clear that proposals are now before the Government and they will be considered shortly. It is hoped that a decision can be announced very soon. 
I am aware of reports about the difficult situation faced by the building industry in New South Wales and the Government is concerned at the shortage of rental accommodation. We are examining tax provisions which would allow depreciation on new dwellings among a number of possible ways to encourage private investment in new buildings for rental residential purposes. However, the matter is a complex one which goes beyond the housing field, and it would be unwise to make any decisions without detailed consideration of all the issues involved. 
I am aware that some people have had their applications for citizenship rejected as a result of reports made available to the Minister of the time. As the honourable gentleman said, Ministers for Immigration of all political persuasions have adopted that practice in the past. I am not aware whether the numbers he mentioned are accurate- 1 doubt it- but certainly I will seek to find out. I have been concerned about the practice and I certainly will undertake to see whether there is some other way in which the reasons for the rejection of applications for citizenship can be made available either to members of Parliament making representations on behalf of individuals or to the individuals themselves. But I would point out that I regard citizenship as a very great privilege and not something to be given lightly or without some investigation of the individual involved. I think it is important that those investigations be carried out in order that people who are granted citizenship can truthfully be said to deserve it. 
in reply- I should like to thank the honourable members who have taken part in this debate. It has been a wide ranging one. Although the purpose of the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer to advance to the States this financial year the sum of $364.6m for welfare housing, in fact those who have contributed to the debate have ranged right across the spectrum of housing and those aspects applying to it. I am sorry I was not present for the whole of the debate. I had an appointment which I could not break and I missed a couple of speeches. I do apologise for that. But I have received notes on what was said. 
I think the main thing I would like to say at this stage is that in line with many of the comments put forward by honourable members speaking during this debate, the Government is concerned about aspects of the construction and housing industry, particularly in certain States. I shall certainly ensure that the contributions of honourable members are brought to the attention of the responsible Minister, who, of course is in another place. However, before moving on, I should like to comment on a couple of the contributions made by honourable members taking part in the debate. Firstly, I should like to deal with the contribution made by the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who in the course of his speech made some charges which I believe need to be answered. I point out to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that this Bill is exactly the same as the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2) of 1973 and the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2) of 1974 except for appropriate differences in money amounts and the dates included in the Bill. So to suggest that in some way this Bill is a new departure is quite a long way from the actuality of the situation. In fact this Bill is identical with the Bill introduced by the Labor Government on 27 August 1975 to authorise advances in 1975-76, except for only one change and that is that 1975 was changed to 1976 in clause 1. At that stage of course the Bill was supported by the then Opposition but lapsed on the double dissolution. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made a charge which I believe should be refuted. He said that in the second reading speech I had misled the House. This is not the case. The fact is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition misread the speech, or if he has not misread the speech, he has not understood it. Probably the second is more accurate. The advances in respect of which provision is made in clause 7 are advances made to the States prior to the commencement of the Act- not after the commencement of the Act but prior to the commencement of this Act. They are exactly the same provisions as appeared in the Bill introduced by the honourable member's Government last year. So to suggest that in some way I have misled the House in the second reading speech just does not accord with the facts. 
Also, the honourable member's statement that clause 8 is a new departure in providing advances of $ 182.3 m which may be made in the first 6 months of 1976-77, that is, from 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976, is not correct. Again I point out that a similar clause has been included in this Act every year under the previous administration. So I should like to make it quite clear to the honourable member that in this case there was no new material introduced apart from the changing of the dates and there was certainly no misleading of the House. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made a typically thoughtful speech - 
The honourable member for Lilley, in making this typically thoughtful speech was canvassing issues which are wider than those included in the actual provisions of the Bill. But I do believe that the contribution he made did provide some food for thought in relation to the actions of the Government in the future. Certainly the 3 major points that he brought forward in relation to the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the future of the building societies in Queensland - 
-And the building societies in New South Wales- should be brought to the attention of the Minister. I certainly will undertake to do that. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)-  a previous Minister for Housing- in his contribution said that the amount under the Bill for 1975-76 had been reduced from the 1974-75 amount. He took us to task a little bit for that. I just point out to the honourable member for Hughes that in fact it was his own administration which undertook this reduction of funds. We have carried on the figures as brought into effect by the previous Labor administration. So any criticism of the reduction of funds should not be levelled at us so much as levelled at the honourable member's own people. He also said that the 1 1 463 commencements for 1974-75 was a record. In fact, this is not so. Housing agreements commencments exceeded this figure of 1 1 463 in 1970-7 1, 1969-70, 1966-67 and in 1964-65. 1 think it is not unreasonable to point out that all these years were years of a Liberal-Country Party Government. In fact the record that the honourable member for Hughes claims is not a record and falls well short of previous commencments undertaken under previous Liberal-Country Party Governments. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  suggested that the funding agreements should be amended to allow the South Australia Housing Trust to borrow on the capital market. If the honourable member for Adelaide checks this matter out he will find that the South Australia Housing Trust borrows against a loan program approved by the Australian Loan Council at rates determined by the Loan Council and in accordance with the provisions of the gentlemen's agreement. Perhaps this is another case in which the honourable gentleman should do a little bit more investigation before he makes these statements. He also contends that the $364.6m for 1975-76 was intended by the Labor administration as a first instalment and that more would have been made available later in this year as had been done in 1974-75. Well, the honourable member can contend that but it is doubtful, if one looks at the history of the Labor Government's decision, in preparing the 1975-76 Budget, to reduce the allocation from $385.4m last year to $364.6m this year. Whilst he can say that additional moneys would have been made available the fact that the amounts were reduced by his own Administration does not lend credence to his contention. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  mentioned that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement should be amended to delete the needs test provisions and also to remove the restrictions on the sale of homes, a point that was also brought up by the last  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The introduction of fairly uniform needs tests in the States was considered desirable when the Housing Agreement was being formulated in 1973 because of the wide disparity in eligibility conditions in the States at the time. There is a measure of flexibility in that each State may elect to adopt either the Australian figure or its own State figure for average weekly earnings in calculating its needs test. The Agreement provides further flexibility by allowing up to 1 5 per cent of the family dwellings provided by State housing authorities under the Agreement to be allocated to applicants outside the needs test. In relation to the removal of restrictions on the sale of homes, I point out to honourable members that the purpose of these restrictions is to build up the stock of rental dwellings as quickly as possible, thus reducing the period for which an applicant has to wait for a rental dwelling. It is suggested that in time this will also reduce the volume of funds required from year to year to replace dwellings that are sold. For instance, it was calculated in 1973 that the cost of replacing 22 700 Housing Commission dwellings in Sydney, which had been built at a cost of $126m, would be of the order of $500m. However, there are suggestions that each State should be allowed to decide for itself whether dwellings should be sold. This was the point raised by the honourable member for Denison. 
The contribution of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  was, I think, highlighted by a quite unprovoked attack on the honourable member for Petrie who I believe put forward a quite reasonable suggestion that Australians have a wish to own their own homes. The honourable member for Burke, as is his right, contended that this is not the case. I believe- this is only a belief on my part; as the honourable member for Burke stated, I do not have the figures to back it up-that if one looks at the evidence around us the contention that people do wish to own their own homes is supported by fairly solid evidence in the form of bricks and mortar which is available to be seen in every major city of Australia. The speech of the honourable member for Burke was notable for the fact that he came right out into the open and said as a good socialist that there should be only one owner of land in Australia, and that should be Big Brother government. However, I would commend the honourable member's contribution because of bis support for new housing methods. The honourable member obviously has some specific expertise in this area. I agree with him on a personal level that there are advances which could be made in building techniques and certainly ones which should be looked at. If we can in some way bring down the costs of building this would benefit everybody. Overall, I think it has been a most interesting debate. I thank honourable members for their contributions to it and I reiterate that I shall make sure that their contributions are brought to the attention of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the. following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No money has been provided by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, over the past 5 financial years. 
As no requests for funds have been made on behalf of the Wayside Chapel for this financial year I am unable to say whether any funds will be made available. 
The question requires a detailed answer. I will make sure that it is referred directly to the Minister and I will seek to have him refer the answer to the honourable gentleman. 
When I gave my answer in the House to the honourable member for Sydney last week I did not have information that the Embassy in Lebanon was about to be closed down or would be closed down. I informed the House at that time that the Embassy had moved from its official quarters to a hotel in the middle of Beirut and that the persons dealing with the immigration inquiries there were doing so at some considerable risk to themselves. I want to make it quite clear to the House and to all those people of Lebanese extraction that of course I have the utmost sympathy for those people who are waiting to have processed their applications for migration of relatives to Australia. This has been a difficult situation. We have sought to do everything in our power to give priority to spouses, dependent parents and of course children of Australian residents of Lebanese extraction. There was certainly no misleading of the House by my answer last week. I was informed of the closing down of the Embassy on Sunday last. As to those people who manage to leave Lebanon whilst these present troubles continue, should they be able to reach Australian posts they will be able to make application to come to Australia. Again, priority will be given to those who have close relatives within Australia. However, the broader question is being considered by my Department at the moment and I will be placing a submission before the Government in the very near future. 
Not surprisingly, I do not carry in my head the figures that the honourable member has asked for but I will take a great deal of pleasure in finding them out and communicating them to him. I would like to point out, in view of the questions which have been asked in the House today, that as soon as I arrived in Canberra yesterday I received a telephone call from the Ambassador for Lebanon in Australia. I received him yesterday afternoon and spent quite some time with him discussing the situation in the Lebanon and what we may be able to do in terms of looking after those people who may decide to leave that country. I would reiterate my sorrow that this situation has come about because I do understand the very real fears that a great number of people in Australia do hold for their relatives in that war torn country. 
by leave- At a time when we have more than enough economic and social problems to keep us fully occupied, it may seem untimely to ask the Parliament and the Australian people to give some thought to longer term population goals and growth rates, including the desirable size and composition of our population at various stages up to the end of this century. Yet, notwithstanding our immediate problems, we should not bury our heads in the present. There are demographic trends at work which require us to give serious thought to the sort of Australia we wish to see at the beginning of the next century. Demographic events cast their shadows and lights far ahead. Changes in the direction of the present demographic patterns of this nation and of others will largely determine the size and composition of our population for decades ahead. 
It took 70 years after 1788 for the Australian population to reach 1 million. The second million took a further 19 years. Our thirteenth millionreached in September 1972- took 4 1/2 years. In the 3V4 years since then our population has increased by less than 600 000. In line with the pattern in most other industrialised, developed countries, we are in a period of significant fertility decline. For demographic purposes, fertility is a measure of the actual numbers of children born, not the ability to bear children. Immigration to Australia has also declined dramatically. As a consequence, the rate of increase in our population has dropped considerably. 
The most useful measure of fertility is the net reproduction rate. A net reproduction rate of unity will in the long term yield zero population growth. According to the first report of the National Population Inquiry- page 302- if fertility stabilises at around 1975-76 at net reproduction rate = 1 the population to be expected by the end of the year 2001 would be 15.9 million in the absence of immigration and 17.6 million if net immigration averaged 50 000 a year. Taking the higher projected figure, the population would increase by  4  million in the next 25 years. In the 25 years to June 1975 it grew by 5.2 million. 
In these preliminary comments there are two important points to be emphasised. Firstly, on the basis of preliminary birth statistics for 1975, it seems likely that fertility has already fallen to the level producing a net reproduction rate of one and that it is still falling. Secondly, net immigration is currently running at well below 50 000 a year. In 1975-76 the gross migrant intake will probably be just below that figure. Even that figure, however, probably gives a false impression of the overall change in population resulting from migration. For purposes of projection, the National Population Inquiry used 'the net balance of all arrivals less all departures' as the total for 'net migration'- page 259. Using this definition on the basis of provisional and unofficial figures, it appears that there was a net migration loss of about 5000 in calendar year 1975. That is a remarkable situation. I do not know whether it has anything to do with the final year in office of the Labor Government. There has been no other year since 1947 when the net excess of recorded arrivals over departures has been less than 28 000. Indeed in all but 2 years in that period the net migration gain was at least 40 000. I am making this statement on population policy against the background, especially the decline in the net reproduction rate and in net migration to below the level of the assumption which was the basis for the National Population Inquiry's projection of a population of 17.6 million in the year 200 1 . 
It was in the context of the need for long range perspectives on population and immigration that the Liberal-Country Party Government, on the strong recommendation of the then Minister for Immigration, the  Hon.  P. R. Lynch, commissioned the National Population Inquiry in 1970. The Inquiry was headed by Professor W. D. Borrie, O.B.E. and inquired into the size, composition and distribution of Australia's population at various stages up to the year 200 1. Honourable members are well aware of the first report of the National Population Inquiry to which I have already referred. It was tabled in this House in February 1975. The report shattered previous expectations of an Australian population in excess of 20 million by the year 2001 and brought to attention a significant fertility decline in Australia. 
In so far as Australia has had a population policy in the post-war period it has been in terms of immigration rather than policies designed specifically to increase births to achieve desirable population policy goals. Of the three major population variables-fertility, mortality and external migration- external migration is the only one by which government can directly and significantly influence population. It would be unthinkable, even if it were possible, for government to attempt to manipulate fertility or mortality rates to achieve particular population growth rate targets or to determine the composition of the population. Government policies which influence mortality are posited primarily on the desire to enhance the health, safety and welfare of the community and their effect on population growth is incidental. It would be quite unacceptable for such policies to be used as a means of regulating population growth rates. There seems to be little scope for extending life expectancy significantly so that the mortality variable became a major influence on population trends in the last quarter of this century. 
There are people who suggest that Australians should be encouraged to have more children as a substitute for immigration. There is little evidence that human fertility can readily be manipulated by Governments to serve specific goals. In developed countries such measures, where they have been tried, generally have been pro-natalist and have had little, if any, success. According to the National Population Inquiry report: 'The likely effects of Government measures to encourage or discourage childbearing cannot be anticipated until much more is known about the causes of fertility changes' (NPI report page 726 1 8.39). It must be doubtful whether there would be acceptable and feasible means whereby an Australian Government could seek to increase fertility even if it were the community view that our natural population growth rate was too low. 
Therefore, external immigration will continue to be the only major instrument available to government to influence the level and composition of our population. We have to recognise that the population factor is a key element in most government policy decisions. This applies both to policies involving government services to the Australian people, such as education or social welfare, and to policies in which population is treated as a resource, such as the gearing of manpower to economic development. 
The importance of population considerations becomes apparent when one examines specific areas of policy. For example, if Australia's teacher training programs are to meet but not exceed future schooling needs, likely future school enrolments at the various levels must be known. Future demands for obstetric and geriatric medical facilities and personnel will depend heavily on the age composition of the future Australian population. The volume and nature of investment in both the public sector and private enterprise are linked with the expected demand for the services of goods to be provided through such investment and the volume and composition of such demand are dependent on the size and composition of the future population. 
Urban development planning by State and local governments and any regional growth centre policies introduced or continued by State and Commonwealth governments are other examples. These must be closely geared to future population developments. If not, we court the serious risk either of massive, wasteful investment in providing capital works well beyond the needs of future populations or inappropriate to those populations; or of serious shortfalls in infra-structure to service the population of the future. The range of examples is very extensive but those I have mentioned provide an indication of how vital, far-reaching and economically significant the population variable is to policy making for all levels of government and private enterprise associated with physical and human resource allocation and development. 
Some aspects of our demographic future can be predicted with confidence. For example, the number of people in Australia aged over 20 years in 20 years' time, or aged over 5 years in five years' time, can be determined today with sufficient accuracy for most of the purposes of policy formulation and implementation. The same is true, in general, for numbers of aged people. In the case of those developments which depend on trends in fertility, however, knowledge at this stage is insufficient to predict future birth levels with certainty. What can be done is to project such levels on the basis of the trends in fertility already evident. 
The decline in the number of births recorded in Australia in each year since 197 1 is now generally accepted as the continuation of a longstanding decline in family size, not so clearly evident before 1971 because of the intervention of such factors as soaring rates of marriage. In some quarters it has been suggested that the decline in fertility since 1971 is a temporary phenomenon due largely to a recent marked change in attitudes towards starting families. The argument is that couples have deferred the birth of their first child for several years, perhaps in response to economic circumstances or to changed attitudes towards women working. While there is some evidence of deferment of first births in some families, this in itself seems to have been only a minor factor in the severe fall in fertility since 1971. What this argument overlooks is the longstanding decline in completed family size in Australia from an average of over 6 children in the 1880s to about three in the 1940s and to below three more recently. 
Moreover, there has tended to be a lag between demographic trends in comparable countries overseas and those in Australia. Significant fertility decline is continuing in most developed countries overseas. In Western Europe, England and Wales, Scotland, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland to name only some, are experiencing high rates of marriage, yet fertility is declining. All of these countries have a net reproduction rate close to, or below, unity and still falling. Italy is just outside that situation. Outside Western Europe, the United States is in the same category as the list of countries I have mentioned and Canada is just outside, According to a recent report of the Economic Commission for Europe, if these recent trends were to continue indefinitely, it is an extreme though not unreasonable conclusion that by the year 2030 quite rapid declines in population would have set in in all major regions of Europe. 
For Australia there are two main points to be gathered from current demographic trends in other developed countries. The first is that we face further declines in fertility. The second is that the rate of population growth in most of our traditional source countries for immigration is decreasing and, if current trends continue, will do so to a much greater degree from early in the next century. This second point should not be put too high. There is considerable potential for further migration from most of these countries, at least for the next 2 decades. 
The first report of the National Population Inquiry provides insights into the likely path our population will take up until the year 200 1, given certain assumptions. What we now need to consider is whether Australia's projected population growth, including its likely composition, is appropriate to national objectives. If not, what should it be and why and how are we going to achieve any population goals we set ourselves? What population goals should immigration be directed towards in the medium and long term? 
The first dimension of what should be encompassed within a national population strategy is the constant monitoring of demographic trends. This would involve the analysis and interpretation of their apparent implications for the future and ensuring that this information is available to policy and decision makers, inside and outside government. That is a major developing task of the Population Policy and Research Unit of my Department working in close association with the Australian Bureau of Statistics and other agencies. This first dimension is a passive one to the extent that it accepts demographic trends as given, and attempts to adjust other programs and policies accordingly. 
There can be a second, active dimension to a population strategy. This involves making decisions about desirable growth rates and taking action to achieve them. A precedent is the 2 per cent population growth rate policy following the Second World War and the introduction of annual immigration programs. Australia's difficulties in defending itself during that war and the need for manpower to encourage and support industrial and economic expansion combined to produce a national consensus that Australia needed a much larger population. The agreed policy was that Australia's population should increase by an average of 2 per cent per annum, approximately 1 per cent resulting from natural increase and the balance from immigration. The 2 per cent population growth rate policy was consistently exceeded in the period 1948-49 to 1960-61. 
One only has to consider that since 194S some 3.3 million migrants have come to Australia and that one person in five in this country is a migrant to appreciate the impact of post-war immigration. It has supplemented shortfalls in our nation's age structure, particularly in the working ages, and has been an important factor in the youthful age structure we have in Australia today. If we include the children born to migrants after arrival, some 3.7 million of the total 6.2 million increase in Australia's population since World War II is due directly to migrants. It is almost universally agreed that the immigration program has been of enormous benefit to Australia. This is a tribute to our massive development potential, the good sense of Australian-born people and migrants in avoiding community tensions and the industry of our migrants. There have been pressures on the infrastructures of our major cities and there have been ethnic problems of very minor dimensions, in comparison with the comparable problems of many other countries. This situation was reached without scientific assessment of the implications of pursuing and achieving the high rates of population growth of the post-war years. 
I want now to pose some of the issues involved in developing a future population policy strategy for Australia. It is no longer acceptable to set a figure virtually arbitrarily as a rate of future population growth and then use it as the basis of a population policy. We are a larger and more diverse nation than the one which set out on the large-scale post-war immigration program. 
One possibility is to do nothing. There is a body of opinion which sees population growth as unnecessary and, indeed, undesirable. There are groups who see our standard of living rising by upgrading the skills of our work force and developing our natural resources without the assistance of further immigration or even population growth. One of the inevitable consequences of that approach is, if present fertility and mortality trends continue, that our population will age. In 1973 the proportion of our population aged 65 and over was 8.4 per cent. Assuming a constant net reproduction rate of 1 from 1975-76 on, a substantial increase in the retired component of society can be expected in 2001. With no migration, 10.31 per cent would be in the 65-plus age group. This means that the proportion of our population of retirement age who are dependent on those of working age would increase by one quarter. Far from improving our standard of living and improving the quality of life, this approach with its result of an ageing population will require the transfer of resources away from education and training and investment in productive processes to the needs of a proportionately increasing population of aged persons. 
In almost all conceivable circumstances a net migration gain has the effect of increasing the proportion of the population below the age of 65. If the community sees some cause for concern in an ageing population, it may even be desirable to direct immigration in such a way as deliberately to have a 'younging' effect on the populationfor example by lowering the general age eligibility limits or by giving preference to younger applicants. 
Another related argument is that with the acute population pressures in many parts of the world, Australia should not be increasing its own population. This assumes that increases in Australia's population will have a significant impact on the rate of increase in the world's population or that what we do will be an example for more populous countries. Such assumptions are so unreal that they do not require close study. Nobody can reasonably argue that there is any prospect that Australia itself will become over-populated even in the long-term. On the other hand, however concerned we may be about the population problems of other countries, these are problems to be resolved by those countries and peoples themselves. Our example, and even massive immigration from them, will not have any significant effect on the scale of their problems. It is not my purpose to advocate a particular set of objectives at this stage. For its part, the Government maintains its position as stated in its election policy statement on immigration and ethnic affairs: 
Immigration is an essential instrument of Australia's population policies and of the broader national strategies and objectives to which those population policies are directed. 
That is a commitment to population growth, with immigration as the prime factor in that growth. But- and I emphasise this- it is not a commitment to immigration simply to add to our population without any assessment of the effects of doing so and what is needed to meet those effects. 
The Government believes that Australia's population and immigration strategies must not be a numbers game but must have a sound basis which takes account of the medium and longer term implications of various growth options. However, the exact extent of the population growth to be aimed at, and the composition of the increment, are matters on which we require informed advice. They affect our whole community. They determine the future of Australia as a nation into the next century and beyond. In a liberal democracy the views of all levels of Government and of the community should be sought and taken into account in taking such decisions. 
In my capacity as Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs with responsibility for matters of population policy, I now announce initiatives which will assist the development of future population policy. My Department is now actively engaged in the analysis of basic statistical data on fertility, mortality and migration and population developments and policies in other countries. Proposals to increase further its capabilities in this regard are receiving consideration. We are fortunate in Australia that through the efficiency of the Australian Bureau of Statistics we have long-standing and detailed statistical series on population and related matters. My Department will work closely with the Australian Bureau of Statistics and other bodies to ensure that changes in demographic patterns are made available for policy and decision makers as soon as they are verified and analysed. 
In addition, I have reconstituted the Australian Population and Immigration Council which was originally established in February 1975. The reconstituted Council will advise me on such matters as regular monitoring of, and research into, population change; major developments and research in Australia and overseas concerning population and immigration; the longer term implications of changing patterns of immigration intakes; ways in which future immigration intakes can be planned to complement other policies; and implications of population change for various aspects of resource allocation. The functions of the new Council indicate the importance which the Government attaches to population policies and show its determination to base immigration policies and programs on a range of considerations, inclusing the population objectives to be developed with the assistance of the Council. 
A distinguished group of people with wide experience and exceptional personal qualifications has agreed to serve on the Council. I am sure that each will make a valuable contribution to the work of APIC in the years ahead when many vital decisions will need to be made. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the names and designations of the members of APIC. 
As  Chairman  of the Council I am gratified that I shall be able to draw on the wide range of experience embodied in its membership. I shall be asking APIC to proceed with preparation of a Green Paper on population and immigration policies. It will provide available data as a basis for informed and logical discussion and canvass policy options, together with arguments for and against particular options. The purposes of the Green Paper are to stimulate interest m, and debate on, vital population issues and objectives; to create a better informed public opinion; and to lead to the development of policies in accord with present day values and foreseeable national needs. 
There is not one set of answers or solutions to these issues and questions. It is instructive to compare the recent approaches of Canada and Australia. In the years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76, the total numbers of settler arrivals in Australia totalled 112 000, 88 000 and it is estimated 50 000 respectively. Total landed immigrants in Canada in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975- the 1975 figures are provisionalwere 184 000, 218 000 and 218 000 respectively. During these periods, unemployment in Australia rose from 1.6 per cent in June 1973 to 4.2 per cent in February 1976, seasonally adjusted, and inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, by 14 per cent m the 12 months to the December quarter 1975. In Canada the annual average rate of unemployment in 1973 was 5.6 per cent and in 1975 was 6.4 per cent. Inflation, as measured by the Canadian consumer price index, was 9.5 per cent in the 12 months ending December 1975. 
Taking account of the problems of comparing statistical series and the different time periods, it is apparent that the high levels of immigration into Canada during the past 3 years have not had a significant effect on the level of unemployment On the other hand, Australia has sharply reduced immigration during a period of rapidly increasing unemployment. Over the same period the Canadian inflation rate has been well below the Australian inflation rate. Canada has sought to achieve a consistent approach to population growth and to immigration. The question of consistency in immigration programs is a most important matter for us all to consider. 
It has been suggested that resource limitations, especially shortage of water supplies, will severely restrict Australia's capacity to absorb additional population. It is notable, however, that in his study of Australian water resources for the national population inquiry, Professor J. W. Holmes indicated that water supplies would be adequate to support a national population of 280 million. Other studies of resource availability confirm that these do not represent constraints on population growth at any feasible rate in the foreseeable future. There is no doubt, therefore, that Australia has the natural resources, as well as the technological capacity and the political, economic and social structures to enable population increases during the rest of this century of at least the levels of the post-war period. 
The constraints on our potential for population growth are not so much those of our natural resources as of the need to ensure a continuing improvement in living and working standards, the avoidance of short-term pressures on our infra-structures, the preservation of the environment, the avoidance of pockets of disadvantaged persons and groups, the need to ensure the retention of a cohesive Australian community with scope for cultural, ethnic and individual diversity and the availability of the sorts of migrants the Australian community requires and wants. There is also the great question of creating new job opportunities in the emerging post- industrial society, though there is evidence that immigration itself helps to create jobs and to generate economic development. Even making full allowance for these constraints, it is the wishes of the community, rather than the potential to absorb population growth, that set the limits on our population objectives. 
I accept that this statement does not provide answers or solutions. My intention has been to highlight the questions and issues that we as a nation must consider in determining our population objectives and the means of achieving them. The Government has set in train action to enable full consideration of these issues and questions with the object of setting objectives and developing policies to meet them: I hope that this statement will encourage debate on these matters. I present the following paper: 
I am aware of some of the problems that local councils are experiencing in relation to this matter. In order that the honourable gentleman may have a detailed reply I shall pass on his question to the Minister in the Senate and ensure that he receives a reply. 
I will adopt the latter course,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Motion ( by  Mr Newman)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
by leave- In this statement I announce to the Parliament the Government's proposals for the implementation of its election promise to introduce a restructured home savings grant scheme. I also announce, on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  complementary changes in the home loan interest tax deduction scheme. 
A Liberal-Country Party Government introduced the present home savings grant scheme in 1964 to help young married couples of Australia acquire their first home. In the same year, it brought forward legislation to establish the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to encourage lenders to make housing loans on a higher proportion of the value of the home. Both schemes have been tremendously successful. By 30 June 1975, more than 350 000 young couples had obtained a home savings grant. The total amount of grants paid to that time was $167m. To 30 June 1975, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation had insured 176 000 housing loans. These twin initiatives of a Liberal-National Country Party Government have been of great assistance to the people of Australia in helping them obtain their own homes. They are initiatives of which this Government is proud. 
The Labor Party legislated to abolish the home savings grant scheme completely and after 3 1 December 1976, persons building or purchasing homes would not be eligible for a grant. We shall legislate for the reintroduction of the home savings grant scheme, enlarged to provide benefits to a greater range of people than ever before and incorporating other improvements which experience has warranted. This fact gives the Government great satisfaction. Not only will this announcement fully implement an election commitment, it will also provide clear evidence of our determination to ensure that every Australian shall have a meaningful opportunity, if he or she chooses to avail himself of it, to own his own home. 
The new home savings grant scheme continues the basic approach of the earlier scheme but differs in many ways in its details. The basic principle of providing an incentive to save is retained- on the basis of a grant of $ 1 for every $3 saved in an acceptable form. Not only do we wish to assist people by way of a home savings grant to acquire their own homes; we also wish to encourage them to help themselves by providing institutions which are the chief sources of private housing finance with the increment of encouraged savings. The reintroduction of the home savings grant scheme at this time will give an incentive to save, and the Government hopes, it will give some renewed confidence to the private housing sector. 
Experience has demonstrated that the present scheme has some features which meant that deserving sections of the community did not benefit in the way that other sections of the community benefited. For example, one had to be resident in Australia for at least 3 years; to be married, or to be widowed or divorced with dependent children; to be under the age of 36; and so on. The new scheme removes those discriminations, and other disqualifying features. It incorporates major improvements and provides more generous benefits. We intend that some of these improvements will be applied to the present scheme with immediate effect. 
I am aware that under the 1973-74 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement which was introduced by the former Labor Government no more than 30 per cent of the family dwellings built after 1 January 1974 may be sold. The exception to this is that Tasmania was given 3 years to adjust its rate of sales down to 30 per cent. Tasmania has traditionally sold a large proportion of its dwellings. There is no restriction on the sale of houses built in previous years. Variation of the terms of the Housing Agreement is a matter of Government policy and for negotiation with the States. It is a matter for each State housing authority to decide which tenants may purchase homes they are renting. 
by leave- In reply to a question without notice in the House on 30 March 1976 I promised the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  that, in the near future, I would be making a submission to the Government on migration from the Lebanon. I am now in a position to advise the Parliament of arrangements the Government is making to process as quickly as possible applications from those Lebanese people who qualify for migration to Australia. The situation in the Lebanon is tragic. There is no doubt that the lives of many people are in danger and that there is a considerable number of people eligible for migration to Australia who are at present unable to move. 
It was decided on Sunday, 28 March, that the level of risk in retaining an Australian Embassy in Beirut was such that the presence of Australian officers there could no longer be justified. The senior Australian immigration officer remained in Beirut until the Embassy staff was withdrawn. Up till then he was able to serve a useful purpose in processing migration applications but under the conditions pertaining in the days immediately preceding last Sunday operations became impossible in addition to the escalating risk to the officers in Beirut. Locally engaged staff, except for one or two people who endangered their own lives were unable to reach the hotel in which the immigration officer was operating. It was virtually impossible for those in the Lebanese community who may have sought to reach the immigration officer to do so. 
Before leaving Beirut, staff placed a notice in the Press on 29 March advising applicants of the closure of the Embassy and that if they were able to make their way to Australian embassies in Cairo, Ankara or Athens, they could still be assisted. If a formal refugee situation eventuates in Lebanon the Government would certainly give earnest consideration to how it might play its full part to help in such a situation. It must be evident to all members of the Parliament and, indeed, to the Lebanese community within Australia that, if a refugee situation should arise, it could well be of a magnitude beyond the capacity of Australia or of any one country to handle alone. However, I have been informed this morning that there is a significant movement of Lebanese into Syria. At this stage it is not known what the composition of this movement is and hence whether they would be eligible for migration to Australia. I have already given instructions that an immigration officer of the former Beirut staff, who is now in Athens, should proceed immediately to Damascus to process those people who would be eligible to come to Australia. The Australian Government does not officially have resident representation in Syria. Migration inquiries are handled for us by the Netherlands Embassy. The Australian officer will work in association with that Embassy during his stay in Syria. There is an Australian High Commission in Cyprus and those people from the Lebanon eligible for migration to Australia can apply there. 
I now wish to speak of further action proposed to deal with migration of Lebanese, both those within the Lebanon and those who manage to reach other countries. I have already stated that the Australian Government will co-operate in any international efforts to deal with a refugee problem if one arises. As soon as the situation in Beirut stabilises to the point where the Embassy staff can return and operations can begin again, a task force of immigration officers will be sent into Beirut. It will have the necessary facilities to process applications for migration to Australia as rapidly as local circumstances permit. This will require the co-operation and availability of locally engaged staff for interpreting, clerical and other support. I pay tribute to the locally engaged staff in Beirut who have endeavoured to maintain a service to potential migrants and others applying to the temporary Embassy at very great personal risk to themselves. 

 Mr Brogan, the Senior Migration Officer who was in charge of the Immigration Office in Beirut, is now in Athens. He has been directed to co-ordinate immigration arrangements for those Lebanese who reach countries outside the Lebanon. This will involve maintaining continuous contact with our missions in nearby countries and an oversight of those countries where there are no Australian missions. In the latter category are Jordan and Syria. There are Australian missions in Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Turkey and Egypt. I must emphasise that currently the normal migration criteria will apply to people from the Lebanon applying in other countries. This means that those eligible will be the spouses, dependant children and aged and dependant parents of Australian residents. Cases outside these criteria will be considered sympathetically on their merits as they arise. 
Extension of the eligible categories either of migrants or visitors is not foreseen. There are major problems of identification and extreme difficulties of obtaining necessary checks of potential immigrants including health checks. Honourable members will. I am sure, understand the need for careful control of entry to Australia from areas of international dispute. In respect of the persons in the present eligible categories I have mentioned- that is spouses, dependant children and aged and dependant parents- it may be necessary to dispense with checks, including health checks, if conditions do not permit them to be undertaken. Wherever possible, however, these checks will be undertaken. 
I hope that this statement will clarify both the present position regarding eligibility for migration and indicate the firm intention of the Government to do all within its power to ease hardship. The situation will be kept under constant review and I can assure the House that I will be maintaining personal supervision of the arrangements I have outlined. 
I am aware of a newspaper report of the nature mentioned by the honourable member. There are approximately eighty to one hundred children of school age at the hostel. Prior to the refugees being accommodated at the hostel the Regional Director of Migration in Victoria made arrangements with the Victorian Department of Education in relation to the school-age children. I believe that special provision has been made by the Victorian Department by providing 2 additional teachers to counsel parents and children before they go to school. I am informed that the children have not yet gone to the Mitcham High School. I believe that counselling will be taking place this week and that the Department has made available some portable classrooms to accommodate the extra children at the school. It is not known how long all these children will be in the area; it is likely that families will be moving away from the hostel to other parts of Australia. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that arrangements were made prior to the refugees arriving at the hostel, and the information I have is that the situation is under control. 
I thank those honourable members who have taken part in the debate this evening. The House intends to move rapidly on to further business so I will confine my comments to a minimum. I should like to take up particularly the comments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I was frankly fascinated by a man who came into the House this evening and talked at some length about economics, a man who for 3 years in this Parliament and in this country presided over, in fact could easily be described as one of the prime causes of, the highest inflation, the highest unemployment, the highest interest rates and the biggest deficit that this country has ever experienced. This man came into the House this evening and talked about economics. It was a salutary lesson to those who may have taken a passing interest in the events of the past 3 years to hear the Leader of the Opposition make those comments. 
However, one of the things that I should point out to those who have taken part in this debate or who may read the results of the debate in  Hansard  is the comment made by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to the level of savings required in order to acquire the amount of money which is available to those who do take advantage of the home savings grants scheme. The assertion is that people will need to save at the rate of $40 a week to accumulate $6,000 in 3 years and qualify for a maximum grant of $2,000. On first hearing, that may seem an attractive criticism of the present scheme, but the facts are totally different from the assertion made by the Leader of the Opposition. May I point out to the House and to the people who will be reading the results of this debate that the 3-year saving requirement is a minimum. The intention of the scheme is to encourage saving over an extended period, ideally from the commencement of work after the completion of education. So it is not a 3-year period which is intended as the saving period for the scheme; in fact, the scheme is aimed at an extended period of saving and the 3-year saving requirement is a minimum. 
I should like to say to those people who will be benefiting from the scheme that by saving $20 a week- I think that in these days of reasonable salary and wage rates $20 a week is not really a great deal- a person can accumulate over $3,000 in 3 years. Two people who save at that rate and then marry would be eligible for the maximum grant of $2,000 after only 3 years. So in fact 2 young people who save at the rate of $20 a week for 3 years will be eligible for the maximum grant of $2,000 after only 3 years. Individual savings of as little as $10 a week would amount to $3,000 in 6 years, so 2 people who save at that rate and then marry would qualify for a maximum grant after 6 years. Even at the saving rate of $10 a week, 2 people who were saving individually at that rate would qualify for the maximum amount of grant after only 6 years of saving. 
As I have said, we do wish to get on with the remainder of the business for the day. I thank those honourable members who have taken part in the debate and I will convey to the Minister responsible for this aspect of policy the comments that have been raised. I should like to bring home to everybody that the assertion stated quite strongly this evening by the Leader of the Opposition that there is somehow a predilection, an emphasis, on those people who can save more is not the case. In fact, the scheme is clearly designed to help those people who have an inclination to own their own home and who have not only the inclination but the capacity to make some personal sacrifice in order to acquire it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Environment Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) No. My Department is carrying out a comprehensive review of the inter-departmental committees which its predecessor Departments convened and the question of a successor to the Standing Inter-departmental Committee on 
Urban and Regional Development will be considered in this context. 
Functions at the Prime Minister's Lodge  (Question No. 226) 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes, in Melbourne on 19 March 1976. 
(2) 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development received the deputation. 

 Mr J. Barry, of the Australian Amateur Gymnastic Union and  Mr N.  Fraser, of the Lawn Tennis Association of Australia represented the sporting bodies. 
(i) The Minister told the delegation that the 
Government has a continuing interest in the development of sport in Australia and reassured them that all commitments entered into with national sports organisations before the end of 1 975 would be honoured. 
The delegation was advised that applications which had been received for funds during 1976 would not be proceeded with, but Government assistance would continue to the end of June 1976 where there were commitments made for on-going projects involving full-time employment of coaches and administrators. However, the Minister indicated that he was prepared to re-examine those situations where a sport believed a commitment existed which had not been met. (in) Far from withdrawing assistance, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has been asked to advise on a comprehensive policy in the area of youth, sport and recreation. However, in the immediate future, Government commitment to sport must be seen within the context of the Government's economic and Federalism policies. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government intends to meet all commitments made by the previous Government under its Sports Assistance Program. This includes the grant of $250,000 to the Australian Olympic Federation towards the expenses of sending Australia 's teams to the winter and summer Olympic Games in 1 976. The Prime Minister endorsed this level of Commonwealth Government commitment when he launched the Australian Olympic Federation's fund raising campaign on 26 January 1976. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The National Recreation Survey Task Force was established in 1974 to define techniques for a national recreation survey. As conceived, the survey was to comprise the compilation of an inventory of existing recreation facilities and a survey of patterns of participation in recreation. 
The Task Force met on a number of occasions and prior to its termination, recommended that work on the inventory of facilities throughout Australia be deferred until techniques for collecting the information had been refined. It suggested this should be done as part of the development of regional leisure plans. Accordingly, work is now underway on the preparation of regional leisure plans for the Gippsland and Geelong regions. These particular regions have been chosen for the initial studies because they are representative of particular environments which will be encountered elsewhere in Australia. The findings from these studies will, therefore, be of value to all States. 
It was also decided that the Australian Bureau of Statistics Household Survey which was conducted in April 1 975 would provide a useful vehicle for collection of data about participation in recreation. When the data collected by the Bureau is available it should provide the first authoritative information from across the nation on people's recreation activity patterns. 
The results of the studies now being undertaken will be disseminated to all State Government Departments responsible for recreation and to the local government authorities involved in the preparation of the regional leisure plans. The information will also be made available to any interested authority or person. 
RAAF Capital Equipment Expenditure  (Question No. 202) 
I am aware that honourable members on both sides supported the original Bill when it came before the House. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in another place has made a series of statements in answer to questions there, making it quite clear that the Government supports the establishment of an Australian Heritage Commission. However, in line with the Government's determination to make sure that any future establishment of any further organs of government at the Federal level should be done carefully and after due reflection, this matter has been examined over a period of time. I believe that consideration has almost come to an end and that the Minister will be making a statement shortly on the future of the Commission. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
While I have not personally seen the reports referred to by the honourable member, 1 am concerned at the spread of the cane toad throughout eastern Australia since its original introduction to Queensland in 1935. 
and (3) The cane toad has already been detected in north-eastern New South Wales and is very common along the greater portion of the eastern Queensland seaboard. Owing to the toad's ability to withstand a wide range of temperatures experts are not prepared, at this stage, to predict the areas of Australia which could be colonised. The toad has multiplied in Australia on a scale not reached by native frogs and because of its feeding habits and production of a toxic venom from glands in the neck region it is a potential threat to a range of native fauna. In addition it competes for habitat and preys on native species. The effect of the toad on native fauna is poorly documented and this is one area that requires research. 
For further information on this problem I refer the honourable member to an excellent report published in 1 975 by  Mr Michael  Tyler of the University of Adelaide. I have asked the Acting Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service to approach State wildlife authorities to see if this problem warrants combined State/Commonwealth action. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Sports Institute Study Group dated November 1975. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 1 present an agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Tasmania for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes- Lavinia nature reserve, King Island, 1975-76. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 1 968-69-$24,000 
1969- 70-$24,000 
1970- 71 -$34,000 
1971- 72-$34,000 
1972- 73-$50,000 
1973-74-$150,000 
1974- 75-$280,000 
1975- 76-$280,000 

1968-1973- Annual grant toward administration costs incurred by the National Council of the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia 1973- 1974- $50,000 grant for national administration as in previous years. $100,000 grant on a $ for $ subsidy basis for the purchase of essential rescue equipment. 1974- 1975- $66,000 grant for national administration; $144,000 grant on a $ for $ subsidy basis for the purchase of essential rescue equipment; $60,000 direct grant to purchase twenty-six power rescue craft for ranches of the Surf Life Saving Association which did not have them; $10,000 direct grant to assist needy clubs purchase essential rescue equipment. 1 975- 1 976-576,000 grant for national administration; $144,000 grant on a $ for $ subsidy basis for the purchase of essential rescue equipment; $50,000 direct grant for the establishment of an integrated radio communications network; $10,000 direct grant to assist needy clubs purchase essential rescue equipment. 
On 9 September 1975 the Surf Life Saving Association was advised by letter that to assist with its forward planning, it could plan its programs in 1976-77 and 1977-78 on the basis of its 1975-76 allocation. While the Surf Life Saving Association has not approached me on this matter, I anticipate that assistance will continue. However, the actual level of the grant and the purposes for which it will be given are a matter for discussion in the 1 976-77 Budget context. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has proposed for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The necessity for the Government to make a prompt commitment to selective decentralisation. 
He did not really speak very succinctly to that proposition. In fact, as we are coming to expect from the honourable gentleman, he based bis arguments on suppositions and Press reports but on little hard fact. As I understood it, the whole of the honourable gentleman's speech was based on the proposition that Treasury had taken a particular line in relation to the supply to be brought in in the future, that this particular Treasury line would result in a very great diminution of the amount of money available for growth centre projects and, in addition, that the Treasury line was not only acceptable to but had already been accepted by the Government. That is a fairly tenuous series of events on which to base a speech of this nature. 
I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition revealed very clearly the attitude which he and the Government of which he was a member put into effect during their period of power. He talked about how much money they intended to spend. He seems to take a great deal of delight in talking about large sums of money which the Government is going to spend. That was typical of the activities of the previous Labor Administration. Honourable members opposite were very good at spending other people's money. They did not care very much whether it was spent efficiently, well or in the right area. As long as they were spending ever increasing amounts of other people's money they were happy. That was the approach that characterised the previous Labor Administration. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition remains unrepentant. In the summing up of his speech here this afternoon he came back to this theme again. He talked about hundreds of millions of dollars as though hundreds of millions of dollars were readily available to the Government without the necessity to raise it from the people of Australia. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is very good at spending other people 's money. 
I was very pleased not only that he had read the recent speech by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  in relation to growth centres, but also that he praised it. He made some general comments in the initial stages of his speech about a massive disembowelling of growth centre projects but then in the very next breath he said  Senator Greenwood's  speech last Friday about growth centres was a very sensible speech. I find it a little difficult to follow his logic in this respect. It has been suggested that there has been a massive disembowelling of the growth centre project- this is the statement that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made this afternoon- and yet there was a sensible speech by the responsible Minister as recently as last Friday. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition praises  Senator Greenwood  for that speech and the concepts contained in it. There seems to me to be a difference of opinion between those 2 statements. It is not as though those statements were separated by a great period of time; they virtually followed each other. He cannot have it both ways. He cannot say that there is a massive disembowelling of growth centre projects on the one hand and that sensible speeches are made by the Minister on the other- speeches that he admits give a review of the situation and a philosophy with which he found little to quarrel. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that we were about to abolish growth centre spending in 1976-77. He made that statement completely unsupported by any evidence. If he has some evidence to produce to back up his statement I should be grateful to see it. There has been no announcement at all by the Government in relation to this matter. In fact, as I said at the beginning of my response to the honourable gentleman's speech this afternoon, the whole of his approach has been based on 2 suppositions, neither of which has been proved and neither of which he can prove. In relation to the Government's approach to growth centres, perhaps for the information of honourable members I also should refer to the speech the Minister responsible for growth centres,  Senator Greenwood,  gave last Friday when he discussed the Government's approach to growth centres. He looked at it in the context of a total approach. He asked the question: What is the future of growth centres? He asked the question: Are they still viable ventures following the first report of the National Population Inquiry? Of course, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has already indicated and admitted, the report of the National Population Inquiry has a great significance in relation to future developments in growth centre projects. He rightly paid tribute to the work of the Borrie Committee and to the results of its inquiries which were demonstrated in its report. 

 Senator Greenwood asked: How will the recent change of Government and reports of cuts in Government spending affect these projects? The figures which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition outlined today as reflecting necessary forward commitments are based on the S-year program for each centre. Of course they do not indicate that the Commonwealth necessarily should take up the task of providing all, or even a major share, of these funds. Whether the Government does this, or the share that the Government takes up, will of course depend on budgetary priorities and on the priorities of the States involved because we have a very different approach from that which characterised the previous administration. We seek to consult the States in relation to massive projects of this nature. I pay a tribute to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition the previous Minister, because I think he was one of the few members, if not the only member, of the previous administration who seemed to take some real trouble in seeking the co-operation of the States for projects with which he was committed. 
The projects are subject to regular review. I am sure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would agree that these regular reviews should take into account the actual growth which is taking place, in other words the results of the Projects. We just cannot have a commitment which does not take into account the results of the projects as they carry on in time. Obviously the amounts of money mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition related to the 5-year program which his Government brought down. In relation to settlement policy, the Government's broad national goals are: Individual freedom and responsibility, economic growth, efficiency in the use of public and private resources, a greater degree of equity in terms of people's access to services and opportunities and a high quality environment. Taking these goals as a whole, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development stated last Friday a series of basic objectives of a settlement policy in Australia. He stated the approach of the Government when he said: 
We must provide basic employment and other economic opportunities to country residents, and to ensure that they are not economically and otherwise disadvantaged because of their location and the costs of distance which they incur. 
We must provide country residents, wherever possible, with basic services (education, welfare, health, culture and recreation). 
We must provide enterprises and governments with a wide choice of locations for economic activities, as an aid to the growth of national economic efficiency and more equal opportunity among regions. 
We must try to develop a more balanced distribution of population and economic activities at a national level, and provide opportunities for a better national distribution of higher order and more specialised services and activities. 
We must relieve development pressures in major metropolitan regions by creating adequate opportunity elsewhere, and secure thereby greater efficiency in development processes and expenditure. 
We must plan for the distribution of population and employment opportunities within and between metropolitan areas so as to assist orderly growth and change and the more efficient provision of related services. 
We must ensure that adequate advantage is taken of developmental opportunities of national economic significance, particularly involving the use of mineral resources, and to ensure the efficient development of infrastructure and settlement in relation to such opportunities. 
And finally we must take proper account of the specific and particular problems of declining rural regions, of Australia's remote areas, and of depressed metropolitan regions. 
Of course there is a difference between metropolitan growth centres and regional growth centre. It would be unwise and misleading to talk about growth centres as though they were all the same with the same difficulties, the same opportunities and the same problems. 
-They are inter-related, as the honourable member interjects, but different ones have different characteristics. I believe a proper approach would be to assess each growth centre to try to overcome the particular problems and the particular aspects of the growth centre which reflect its location. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has accused the Government, as I said, of disembowelling the growth centre project. As I have pointed out so far, the Minister in charge of growth centre projects, the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Greenwood,  as recently as last Friday put on paper in public a firm commitment to the continuation of the growth centre project. But he went further than this. In the conclusion of his statement last Friday  Senator Greenwood  said: 
I want to reiterate that while I believe that a country like Australia should be regularly looking at, and evaluating, its settlement policies, there is a wide range of instruments available to which the growth centre concept is a fundamental element 
Selectivity in the development of regional centres is essential, but we must recognise that for reasons founded in equity, attention must be paid and some resources applied to the particular needs of country areas which are outside their range of influence. 
I also feel that State priorities must be a major influence on any national policy in this area. 
He stated further 
When we came to power a few months ago we were confronted with some tough economic realities. 
It is clear that our programs must be examined in the context of the total budgetary circumstances from year to year. 
The immediate implication is that there must be a greater regard for cost effectiveness both in the short and long term. 
By this I mean that we should be concerned with evaluating how public funds can go further in helping to achieve social and economic objectives in growth centres and in alternative or complementary decentralisation measures. 
He went on to say later: 
In other words I am proposing that there ought to be an expansion of the role of the private sector, so as to obtain the maximum possible gearing from public sector investment in the growth centres. 
Those are not the words of a man who is involved in the process of disembowelling the growth centre projects. Those are the words of a man who represents a government which has regard for the effective and efficient spending of public moneys- moneys which, after all, come from the people. The people themselves have had to bear a tremendous burden as a result of 3 years of Australian Labor Party rule. When we assumed office we were confronted with the situation of a massive government deficit- a deficit greater than any in the history of this country. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition still talks about record spending as though there is no tomorrow and as though there is no way in which any responsible government must seek to do something about cutting back the rate of government expenditure, about cutting back the massive deficit which confronts this country. The Opposition's case has been based on 2 suppositionsthe supposition that the Treasury has put forward a proposition that will lead to a massive cutback in growth centre expenditure in the first half of the next financial year and, secondly, the supposition that that supposed Treasury - 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974-1975, I present an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Western Australia over the provision of financial assistance for urban expansion and redevelopment (Moore River study) 1975-76. 
The Minister provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The services relating to functions of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs which were provided in the past in rural areas by offices of the Department of Labor and immigration are being continued by area offices of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. It is not planned to alter these arrangements in any way. 
The new Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is continuing to act in matters of citizenship interviews wherever this was the arrangement previously. The question of passport applications is one for my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs; he has informed me that the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations does not act on behalf of his Department in passport matters. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the former Department of Environment for the period July 1974 to June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974-1975 I present an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Western Australia in relation to the provision of financial assistance for urban and regional development, 1975-1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has decided to take no action at this lime on the proposed accelerated office accommodation program originated by the previous Government. This decision was announced on 25 February 1976 by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services. 
2 ) Yes. 
3 ) Yes. The Government's accommodation requirements are being assessed as pan of the overall review of administrative arrangements. The availability of office space in Orange will he kept in mind when consideration is being given id the location of Australian Government employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The National Sports Institute Study Group's report submitted to the former Department of Tourism and Recreation was tabled in the Parliament on Wednesday. 28 April 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
I think that some people may be confused as to the necessary regulations concerning people who are residents of Australia but are not yet citizens. The problems that have arisen in relation to re-entry have concerned those people who are residents of Australia but who have not yet taken out citizenship. The system was changed on 22 March this year. Ample notice was given of the change to the system. Anybody who is an Australian resident but is not yet an Australian citizen can go along to an office of my Department and have his passport stamped to signify that he is a legal Australian resident. If people do that prior to going overseas they may travel overseas for up to 3 years without the need for a re-entry visa. Some people have not taken advantage of that situation and have travelled overseas without having their passports endorsed in that manner. When they have sought to re-enter Australia the travel authorities have, quite rightly, asked them to produce evidence that they have the legal right to re-enter Australia. 
A case which received some publicity earlier this week involved a woman travelling on a British passport who went overseas to visit her sick mother without obtaining the necessary endorsement before she left. The regulations are quite clear. They were well publicised. There is no delay in obtaining that endorsement. In the case of the particular woman concerned, as soon as my department heard of the situation it cabled authority to the Australian authorities in the United Kingdom to allow that endorsement to be placed in the woman's passport. I reiterate that all residents of Australia who have not yet taken out Australian citizenship and who may in the future be travelling overseas should take advantage of this situation before they travel and should go to an office of my department and have their passports suitably endorsed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1975, to give effect to the proposals for changes in the existing home savings grant scheme which  Senator Greenwood  announced to the Senate on 31. March 1976. I intend, as soon as possible, to introduce legislation to establish the new home savings grant scheme, the details of which were also announced to the Senate on 3 1 March. The new scheme will apply to persons contracting to acquire their first home on or after 1 January 1 977. In passing, might I again draw attention to a special provision of the new scheme whereby savings held in the approved forms as at 3 1 May 1 976 will be deemed to have been held since 1 January 1976. I should like to advise everyone saving for their first home to ensure that their home savings are held in an acceptable form by 3 1 May 1 976. The acceptable forms for the new scheme will be the same as for the present scheme- savings bank accounts; fixed deposits with banks; shares or deposits in registered building societies or credit unions; and payments on land on which the home is to be built, deposits paid for the acquisition of the home, and payments for the construction of the home. 
The amendments which I now introduce will apply to people who are otherwise eligible to receive a grant under the present scheme and who contract to buy or build their first home on or after 1 April 1976. Under the present scheme a person who builds a home on his parents rural property is ineligible for a home savings grant unless he has title to the land. To become eligible for a grant, he has to acquire separate title, which can be an expensive undertaking, or to become a joint owner, which is not always practicable. The amendments now proposed do away with this requirement. They provide that a person has an approved interest in land for the purposes of the Act if he has contracted to build a dwellinghouse on a rural property, provided that he has the permission of the owner of that property to occupy the dwelling-house on completion. Increasingly, people are buying factory-built houses which are transported to the site and placed on prepared foundations. This applies particularly to rural properties. The Bill provides that, for the purposes of the Act, this shall be regarded as the construction of the dwellinghouse on the land, as shall be the purchase of a house built on land elsewhere and transported to the site. 
In addition, the amendments will assist young married couples who are buying their' first home from a State or Commonwealth housing authority. Previously, such couples have not been eligible for a grant because of the financial assistance 'provided by the Commonwealth in the construction and purchase of their home. This was an anomalous situation, because people acquiring privately-built homes with Commonwealth finance were not disqualified. The restriction will be removed in relation to people contracting to acquire homes from Commonwealth or State housing authorities on or after 1 April 1976. Under the conditions of the present legislation, savings with a credit union are acceptable only if the credit union has been approved for the purposes of the Act. People contracting to buy or build their first home on or after 1 April 1976 will be able to claim savings held with any credit union within their 3 years savings period. 
The Bill also provides that people who contract to buy or build their first home on or after 1 
April 1976 may apply for a grant at any time. However, people who contracted to buy or build their home before 1 April 1976 must still apply for their grant within twelve months, unless an extension of time is granted. This Bill should be seen as the first step towards implementing our housing policy undertaking, to make it a major national objective to encourage all people who wish to do so to own their own home. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second  tme. 
This Bill seeks to allocate grants to the States in 1975-76 to facilitate the monitoring of air quality. I am sure that all honourable members would be aware that air pollution in our major cities is causing concern. Air pollution levels in some of our cities are approaching, and on some occasions have already exceeded, safe community health levels set by the World Health Organisation. The need for monitoring of air pollution as a precursor to stricter controls in some locations is therefore urgent. 
Where high levels of pollution occur, the cost Of such pollution is met by the community in the form of higher health bills and work absenteeism, lowered property values, and general loss of amenity. In order to alleviate these problems and to develop appropriate control measures, it is necessary that the levels and sources of pollution be clearly identified. This requires the establishment of adequate monitoring facilities. Current metropolitan air monitoring programs in each State differ in instrumentation and procedure. Under the aegis of the Australian Environment Council, agreement has been reached between the States and the Federal Government on the measures needed to achieve standardisation of methods, of measurements, types of pollutants to be measured and formats for recording data. Funds provided under this Bill will help to implement this nation-wide approach to air monitoring. 
Apart from air pollution control, data from the national monitoring system will be used for the planning of future urban or regional developments. Assessment of air pollution potential is now one of the prime considerations in planning for any venture involving the location of new centres, industry and transport networks. The data collected under the program will enable more accurate assessments to be made in relation to locational decisions. The information will be collected centrally and made available to appropriate authorities for their use. 
This Bill proposes a Commonwealth appropriation of $200,000 for the year 1975-76. Appropriations for each subsequent year will be considered according to future needs and within budget context. This program is necessarily an activity aimed at continued vigilance on air quality and at checking that any control strategy undertaken has been effective and efficient. Funds were appropriated under the 1974-75 Budget for the purchase of 3 mobile air monitoring vans. These vans will be loaned to the various States for the inter-comparison of instruments, determination of sites for permanent monitoring stations and other special projects. The mobile monitors are equipped with modern automatic instrumentation and are capable of taking continuous recordings of pollutants and meteorological conditions. This Bill will implement the second stage of the national monitoring program. 
The need for a national approach to air quality was first expressed in the Senate Select Committee Report on Air Pollution in 1969. The National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Transport Advisory Council have also emphasised the urgency for improved air quality monitoring. The Government has accepted a responsibility to foster a uniform, nation-wide approach to air monitoring. In our election platform on Environment and Conservation Policy we stated 'we will examine with each State Government the need for and cost of monitoring air, water and noise pollution standards and where necessary criteria for measurement of standards . . . Honourable members will recall that the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Act was enacted in December 1 974 to amend the 1 973 Act for the provision of grants to all the States for the monitoring of water quality. The present Bill complements the Water Resources Assessment Act by extending monitoring to cover both media- water and air- which are vital to human life and well being. There will be very few in Australia who will not be able to share in the benefits derived from this Bill and I am sure it will receive the support it is due. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Secretary of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has raised the matter in the course of discussions with State officials. 
3 ) The responses of the State officials have indicated that the matter could be pursued further if the Commonwealth Government decided that devolution of administration is desirable. 
4 ) The Prime Minister announced on 2 February that the Returned Servicemen's League would be consulted on the best method of administering the Defence Service Homes Scheme consequent on the decision to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation. The League has advised the Government that it is opposed to devolution of the Defence Service Homes Scheme to the States. 
5 ) All staff and all unions represented among the Defence Service Homes staff have been informed of the study of alternative administrative arrangements and have been assured that they will be consulted in relation to the outcome of the study. The Department of Environment. Housing and Community Development will be consulting also with the Public Service Board as the study develops because of the Board 's special concern for the rights of staff. 
No decisions have been made on the issue of devolution: but if it were to be proceeded with the rights of the staff would be fully preserved in consultation with the Public Service Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The duties and responsibilities of the Australian Sports Council were as set out in the following Terms of Reference: 'The Australian Sports Council will advise the Minister for Tourism and Recreation on the Development of sport and physical recreation in Australia. 
In providing this advice, the Council will take into account, comment on, and where appropriate, make recommendations covering: 
the encouragement of wider participation in sport and physical recreation in Australia: 
the raising of the standards of performance in sport and physical recreation in Australia: 
the provision of sports facilities throughout Australia: 
assistance towards the organisation and administration of national sporting associations; 
the promotion within the community of a general understanding of the value of sport and physical recreation: 
the establishment of a policy or policies for the development of sports and physical recreations at national level: 
the relationship between professional bodies, sporting associations and the Council in the development of sport and physical recreation in Australia; 
the encouragement of industry, institutions, trusts and others in supporting the development of sport and physical recreation: and 
any other aspects considered to be relevant to the tasks of the Council. 
To liaise and co-operate with Sports Councils in the States and similar bodies throughout Australia and overseas. 
The Council shall also consider matters referred to it by the Minister.' 
The names and backgrounds, at the time of their appointment, of the members of the Australian Sports Council were: 

 Mr Jim Barry 
Managing Director Avon Stationery Group Pty Ltd. Melbourne. 'President Australian Amateur Gymnastic Union, delegate to Australian Olympic Federation. Councillor National Fitness Council. Victoria. Lieutenant Colonel (RAA) Active. Citizen Military Forces. Previous champion in gymnastics. Other interests snow skiing, swimming and water skiing. 
Professor John Bloomfield 
Professor and Head of Department of Physical Education. University of Western Australia: Deputy Chairman. Community Recreation Council of W.A.: former President of Australian Sports Medicine Federation: involved with scientific sports coaching: N.S.W. Surf Belt Champion 1950-1954. Resigned early 1975. 

 Mr Herb J. Elliot. M.B.E. 
Manager Pioneer Concrete: associated with National Heart Foundation in rehabilitating coronary patients and in 'get lit' campaigns: 2 gold medals 1958 Commonwealth Games and I gold medal 1960 Olympic Games: active orienteerer Resigned early 1 975. 

 Mrs Wendy M. Ey ( nee Hayes) 
Lecturer in P.E.. Adelaide College of Advanced Education: President S.A. Women's Amateur Athletic Association: research on 'women and sport': involved with coaching: silver medal 1958 Commonwealth Games: accomplished sportswoman in a variety of fields. 

 Mr Geoff Frier 
State Supervisor of Physical Education. Tasmanian Education Department: member National Fitness Council of Tasmania: sportsman, coach and administrator in many sports, including swimming, basketball and Australian Rules: Senior league footballer 15 years: State representative in swimming, life-saving and basketball. 
Miss Eunice P. Gill. M.B.E. 
Senior Lecturer. Department of Physical Education. University of Melbourne: former State and National representative in Netball: various sports administrative experience: Past President. Australian Council for Health. Physical Education and Recreation: recent studies psychological study of skilled behaviour and aesthetic evaluation of movement. 
M r Syd B, Grange. O.B.E. M.V.O. 
Ceremonial officer for the Government of N.S.W.: Vice Chairman Australian Olympic Federation: General Manager I960 Australian Olympic team: chairman National Fitness Council of N.S.W.: Sec/Treasurer Amateur Swimming Union of Australia. 

 Mr Norman May 
Sporting Commentator. Australian Broadcasting Commission. Several times N.S.W. representative at Surf Life Saving. District Rugby in Sydney. Attended all Commonwealth and Olympic Games as commentator since 1962. Also World Championships Swimming Belgrade 1973. Compere 'Sportsman of the Year' Award. 

 Mr David H. Mackenzie 
Solicitor, senior partner legal firm Australian fencing representative at 3 Olympic Games, silver medallist 1962 Commonwealth Games: President Australian Fencing Federation: Chairman of the Oceania Fencing Federation: acting Chairman of the British Commonwealth Fencing Association: Vice Chairman of N.S.W. Olympic Council: executive member for NS.W. on the Australian Olympic Federation. 

 Mr Howard C. J. Mutton 
Inspector of Physical Education. South Australia: member S.A. National Fitness Council: various other administrative positions: Sheffield Shield cricket 1959-60: 4 years as State coach S.A. Amateur Football League: member and former Secretary Australian Council for Health. Physical Education and Recreation. 
Hon Lindsay A. North M.L.C. 
Member of N.S.W. Legislative Council since 1964: State Secretary and General President of Australian Textile Workers Union: active tennis player for 50 years and No. 5 Pennant Bowls player: Councillor and member of tournament committee N.S.W. L.T.A.A. 

 Mr Julius H. Patching, O.B.E. 
Recreation supervisor, City of Melbourne: General Manager 2 Olympic teams: Secretary Australian Olympic Federation: various other administrative positions: several sports, especially athletics. 

 Mrs Ruby Robinson. M.B.E. 
Sports writer. Brisbane. President Australian Women's Hockey Association, member of the Queensland Olympic Council, Queensland National Fitness Council, manager women's team at Mexico Olympics, former President Brisbane Softball Association, lite member Queensland Swimming Association. 

 Mr Michael Wenden. M.B.E. 
Commonwealth Bank employee, Captain of 4 Australian swimming teams, represented at 2 Olympic and 3 Commonwealth Games: many swimming medals and records: member N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association's Board of Management. Also member of the Education and Coaching Committee and the Competitive Committee of the N.S.W'. Amateur Swimming Association. 
State Ministers responsible for sport and recreation nominated three possible candidates and other names were submitted by individuals, voluntary bodies and previous Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
From this comprehensive list of names the then Minister appointed a Council of fourteen members for an initial term of one year. Members were elected as individuals and not as representatives of the Minister, the State. State Sports Councils or any particular sporting group. 
The Council discussed, and where appropriate made recommendations on most of the matters of direct relevance to sport and physical recreation. The Council was not allocated responsibility for youth and broader recreational policies. 
5 ) No decision on the future of the Council has yet been taken. It last met in September 1975. I have requested my Department to advise me on a comprehensive policy in the youth, sport and recreation fields for further consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Recent decisions by the Government provide long term assistance to the Passenger Vehicle manufacturing industry through the 85 percent Local Content Plan and for assistance to the Commercial Vehicle manufacturing industry through a continuation of tariffs 
The Government recognised that these decisions could have .significant effects on sections of the industry, and in different locations. The Department of Environment. Housing and Community Development made an assessment of possible effects, particularly with respect to the levels of activity within the industry over the period to 1980. 
Any assessment of employment prospects in AlburyWodonga and Geelong depends on a forecast of thi prospects for the companies located in each area. These are. of course, the Borg-Warner automatic transmission plant in Albury. while in Geelong, Ford have an engines, panels and components plant and International Harvester have an engines and components plant. 
It would not be appropriate for the Government to make public pronouncements on the existing employment and future prospects for particular companies and therefore 1 will not be tabling the Department's assessment of employment opportunities in these two cities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts paid to Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans Australian Airlines for air travel in Australia for the past two years by the former Departments of Urban and Regional Development. Tourism and Recreation. Environment, and the present Department of Environment. Housing and Community Development are as follows: 
Arisen: April 1 974 to March 1976..... 134.986 
TAA: April 1974 to March 1976 ...... 698.775 
It has not been possible to include costs met by the former Department of Housing and Construction on ' Housing' matters in other than the ACT. or to delete costs relating to the 'Tourism' function now the responsibility of the Department of Industry and Commerce or the Water Resources' function now the responsibility of the Department of National Resources. Information on these items of costs would have to be sought from those Departments. 
There was a meeting of State Ministers for Housing and myself in Parliament House yesterday at which the question of this agreement was raised. The Commonwealth commitment to the States in relation to housing will be made clear by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference which is to be held, I believe, on 9 and 10 June. The housing Ministers Conference agreed that a meeting of officials should be held hopefully the week after the Premiers Conference, and that shortly following that there would be another meeting of housing Ministers to discuss details. 
I am not sure of the date of the latest instructions in relation to the entry criteria for people coming out of Lebanon and seeking to come to Australia. However, I am able to tell the honourable member that the normal entry criteria for people who have managed to escape from the situation in Lebanon and who have made application to come to Australia at one of the Australian posts surrounding that area of the world have been relaxed to the extent that the utmost priority is given to what are known as category A applicants that is dependent parents, husbands, wives and dependent children. Special attention is given to those applicants who meet the normal migration criteria and additionally those people who have some special relationship with residents of Australia and who have their own special compassionate circumstances. Their applications are received and sent to Canberra for assessment. In this way a number of people in the third category of compassionate circumstances have already entered Australia. Special instructions have been given to members of my Department both in and outside Australia to treat every application with the utmost compassion and attention. We have strengthened our representation in the posts in Nicosia. With the very kind co-operation of the Netherlands Government we have put an officer into Damascus, operating from the Netherlands Embassy there. 
In all ways we have endeavoured to help those people who have left the Lebanon and who have sought to come to Australia. Obviously we cannot accept everyone who wishes to come here but we are making special arrangements particularly in respect of category A people. Even if they do not have passports, for instance, we are accepting identity documents and we are carrying out health checks after the people arrive in Australia. We are keeping a very close watch on the situation there. Everyone on both sides of the House, I am quite certain, has the utmost sympathy for those people whose lives have been devastated by the internal situation which at present obtains in the Lebanon. The Government has made special efforts to assist as much as possible. I am keeping in very close contact with the leaders of the Lebanese community in Australia. In fact they have recently commended the Government for the actions it has taken. We will continue to keep a very close eye on the situation and to assist wherever we can. 
-Of course people applied to come to Australia from the Lebanon in those periods. The reason that the statistics are not included is that the Australian immigration officers in the Lebanon, in Beirut at that stage, were working under extreme difficulties. Both the locally engaged staff and the Australian officers were in some physical danger. We decided at that stage that we should give emphasis to those applicants in category A, the category that I have already mentioned. The staff numbers were down and rather than spend time compiling the usual statistics we used the time to process as quickly as we could, given the limited staff available, the applications from those people with the highest priority. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's attitude to the immigration of Rhodesians is governed by paragraph 5 of the United 
Nations Security Council's resolution of 29 May 1968. This includes the following: 
Decides that all States members of the United Nations shall: 
Prevent the entry into their territories, save on exceptional humanitarian grounds, of any person travelling on a Southern Rhodesian passport, regardless of its date of issue, or on a purported passport issued by or on behalf of the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia; and 
Take all possible measures to prevent the entry into their territories of persons whom they have reason to believe to be ordinarily resident in Southern Rhodesia and whom they have reason to believe to have furthered or encouraged or to be likely to further or encourage, the unlawful actions of the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia, or any activities which are calculated to evade any measure decided upon in this resolution or resolution 232 ( 1966) of 16 December 1966. 
Subject to observance of this resolution, the entry to Australia of Rhodesians may be authorised within the categories normally eligible for entry to this country, namely on the basis of being the spouse, dependent children or parents of Australian residents or of possession of specific skills or experience in demand here, as determined by the list of approved occupations. 
This question is hypothetical The terms of any such negotiated settlement cannot be anticipated. Accordingly, I am unable to provide any substantive response beyond stating that, as of now, persons who would be eligible to migrate to Australia under the ordinary criteria and whose migration would not conflict with the resolution referred to above, could be admitted. 
Law of the Sea Negotiations (Question No. 456) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because migration statistics are prepared on a monthly basis, I am providing the closest available approximation to the information requested by the honourable member. 
The numbers of persons who were (a) approved and (b) rejected for migrant entry for the quarter ending March 1976 for some 60 countries for which this information is available at present are: 
I have seen reports of the nature that the honourable gentleman outlined. Most of the statement referred to is non-factual. Firstly, the Habitat delegation from Australia was to have been led by a senior Minister of this Government. I am sure all honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House will be very sad that  Senator the Hon.  Ivor Greenwood, who was to lead the delegation, will no longer be leading it. However, the Prime Minister has asked me to lead the delegation. I will be attending the early part of the conference. After I leave the conference to take part in the visit to migrant source countries in Europe, the leadership of the delegation will be taken over by  Dr McMichael,  a man of impeccable record internationally and nationally. I believe that the standard of the Australian delegates to the conference compares favourably with that of any other delegation that will be present. I have the utmost confidence in the Australian delegates. 
For the information of honourable members I present an urban paper entitled:  A Report on the Information and Library Needs of the Citizens of the Western Region of Melbourne. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have seen the reports to which the honourable member refers. I would say firstly that they were attributed to a man who does not enjoy a very savoury reputation in regard to the accuracy of the statements that he makes. Secondly, I would point out that every country has its quota of illegal migrants at any one time. People over-stay or desert ships and there is always in any country a number of people in the category of illegal migrants. During the previous Government's administration there was introduced to Australia a system known as the easy-visa-system. A great number of people^ took advantage of the system to enter Australia with the sole purpose of circumventing the normal migration laws and staying here as permanent residents. That easy-visa-system was set aside by the previous but one Minister for Immigration- he was then the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameronand when we came to office we decided that the only way to overcome the situation of a large number of people residing illegally in Australia was to declare an amnesty. That amnesty was declared. It was made clear that it would last for only 3 months. It is now finished and it will not be repeated. 
I am concerned that procedures for entry to and exit from Australia require updating in terms of the technology that is used so that we can have a better idea of the movements of those who do come to and leave Australia. I would point out that approximately  Vi  million people enter Australia every year and surveillance of those people who come here to obtain residence illegally is very difficult. However, my Department is looking at ways in which we can improve the technology of our entry and exit requirements and we are also looking as a matter of urgency at the Migration Act itself so that we can overcome the problems to which the honourable member has referred. Australia is not the easiest country to enter illegally. However, there are factors which must be taken into consideration and will be taken into consideration. We will be tightening up our entry and exit procedures. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable member's question, I inform him that if those people who come to our attention and are here illegally do not have some very special circumstances which would allow us in terms of human compassion to permit them to continue to stay in Australia they will be required to leave this country. 
The following table shows the local government areas in each State and Territory in which more than 100 Certificates of Australian Citizenship were conferred during 1975: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$53,000. 
Five. 
Approximately 40 cents per plant. 
250 000 per annum. 
Medibank: Pre-existing Illnesses (Question No. 615) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between the years 1949 to 1972, there was no single Commonwealth Government portfolio with a responsibility for youth, sport and recreation and hence, there were no stated policies on these matters. It was the view of successive Governments that Commonwealth involvement in youth, sport and recreation should be limited and left principally to the various voluntary organisations. This is not to say that the Commonwealth did nothing to "assist or promote youth, sport and recreation activities. Where Government assistance was provided, it was usually done within the context of some other overall Government policy, e.g. National Fitness Funds were provided under the Health policy; and some sporting bodies received grants as part of foreign policy for exchanges with neighbouring Asian countries. 
Because assistance was not made available specifically for youth, sport and recreation programs between 1949-1972, and as any such grants were made as pan of other policies, it is not possible to provide a comprehensive listing of such grants. 
The Government's future commitment to youth, sport and recreation policies will be decided at the appropriate time within the framework of the 1976-77 Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Migration Act does not prohibit the entry of people suffering from epilepsy, although it requires that whenever permission is given for such people to enter Australia, the entry permits granted to them are to specify that the condition was known. Decisions on individual cases are made in consultation with medical officers of the Department of Health who are conversant with the latest developments in the treatment of this and other medical conditions. 
The present procedure provides on a continuing basis for advances in medical knowledge to be taken into account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A schedule of projects announced on 17 December 1975 is attached. 
No payments have been made against these grants. 
Projects for which formal contracts had not been signed as at 31 March 1976 are marked with an asterisk on the schedule referred to in ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the numbers of overseas born persons and of those aged 0-24 years with at least one parent born overseas, together with the percentages they form of the total population in the Batman Division. These figures, compiled from the 1971 Population census, are the most recent available and provide the closest approximation available to the information sought: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of settlers who have arrived from Lebanon in each of (he last 4 quarters is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Of the above amounts, payments in respect of fares of officers of the Departments in 1973-74 and 1974-75 were $126,656 and $75,283 respectively. 
The balances of $237,147 in 1973-74 and $252,986 in 1 974-75 were in respect of travel for 
1 ) The movement of migrants on arrival in Australia to place of destination. 
Travel by members of the Committee and Expert Panels of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. 
Travel by Members of the Immigration Advisory, Planning and Publicity Councils. 
Travel within Australia associated with the deportation of illegal migrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The preparation of a reply to the honourable member's question would involve the collection of detailed information from a diversity of records and sources. Such a task would require a major commitment of staff resources within the Public Service and I do not think that I would be justified in authorising the time and expense which would be involved extracting and collating the detailed information requested by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
2 persons are engaged on recruitment, appointment and selection of staff including routine processing functions at a cost of $22 ,031 p.a. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1) In accordance with a resolution of 29 May 1968 of the United Nations Security Council, the Government is obligated to prevent the entry, save on exceptional humanitarian grounds, of any person travelling on a Southern Rhodesian passport. 
Subject to observance of the restriction on Southern Rhodesian passport holders, Rhodesian applicants seeking entry to Australia may be considered on their merits within the scope of normal migration policy. (3), (4) and (5) The Government is not proposing at this stage to alter migrant entry policy in respect of its application to Southern Rhodesians. Consideration of any future action would depend on the nature of developments. 
The reply to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prior to June 1975 nominations were classified by nationality and not by country of residence of the nominee. 
Table I shows the number of Cypriot nationals wherever resident included in nominations forwarded overseas for processing. 
Table 2 shows the number of persons resident in Cyprus in nominations forwarded overseas for processing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prior to June 1975 nominations were classified by nationality and not by country of residence of the nominee. 
Table I provides the number  or  Lebanese nationals wherever resident included in nominations dispatched overseas for processing. 
Table 2 provides the number of persons resident in Lebanon included in nominations dispatched for overseas processing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that an Interdepartmental Committee chaired by the Department of Social Security is currently studying matters affecting descendants of South Sea Islanders living in Australia. Included in the Study are such considerations as the numbers, distribution and the special needs and problems of South Sea Islanders resident in Australia. Other departments represented on the Committee arc: Prime Minister and Cabinet. Treasury. Aboriginal Affairs and Employment and Industrial Relations as well as the Royal Commission on Human Relations. The Interdepartmental Committee which first met on 17 December 1975, will report its recommendations to the Minister for Social Security. 
There has been no official act of recognition. The Government's policy of consultation with ethnic groups, with the aim of meeting their special needs and offering the maximum opportunity for them to contribute to Australian society in general, is not dependent on an act of official recognition. 
3 ) South Sea Islanders and their descendants arc eligible for assistance available to the general community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has advised that General Bar-lev, who is the Israeli Minister of Commerce and Industry, was granted a diplomatic visa on 20 April 1 976 for a stay of one month. 

 Mr Ada (Eddie) Zananiri was nominated for entry to Australia as the fiance of an Australian citizen. 
This would have been on the basis that he would have been granted six months' temporary residence which normally would be followed by the granting of permanent residence status after marriage to the nominator. The Government, therefore, considered  Mr Zananiri  's case in the light of approving potential permanent residence in Australia. 
General Bar-lev's army career was not relevant to the decision to issue a diplomatic visa to him for a short stay in Australia. He is a Minister of a country with which Australia has diplomatic relations. 
The controversy and incidents involving violence which occurred during  Mr Zananiri  's visit to Australia in May 1 973 were taken into account when the Government reached its decision not to approve entry for potential permanent residence. 
The following answer is provided to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Eight ( 8 ) persons have been deported pursuant to Section 14 of the Migration Act. 
Prior to the commencement of the Migration Act on 1 June 1959 the only deportation legislation which provided for a hearing before a Commissioner was the Aliens Deportation Act 1948. No deportations were effected pursuant to the latter Act which was repealed when the Migration Act came into force. 
Six (6) persons have been appointed as Commissioners for the purpose of Section 14 of the Migration Act. Appointments are made having regard to the location of the hearings and the availability or otherwise of Commissioners appointed previously to hear further cases. 
In reply to the honourable member's question, the following table shows the estimated number of  aliens  16 years of age and over who are residentially qualified, by virtue of three years residence in Australia, to apply for the grant of Australian citizenship but who had not done so as at 3 1 May, 1 976: 
As every honourable member knows, the situation in the Lebanon is such as would cause disquiet to all members of the Lebanese community in Australia and in fact to all members of the Australian community. I am aware that a great number of members of the Lebanese community are seeking to have reunited with them members of their families who can manage to get away from the Lebanon and reach Australian posts surrounding that country. Special arrangements have been operating since early March in relation to people leaving the Lebanon. At present the utmost priority is given to what are known as category A cases; that is, the parents, husbands, wives and dependent children of Australian residents. Their applications are being processed immediately, and in many cases they are being brought to Australia on the understanding that their health checks will be carried out immediately they arrive in Australia. So we are seeking to expedite the reuniting of immediate family members in this category. Normal migration cases also are being processed, and there is an additional category for compassionate cases. At present the level of applications is extremely high and the level of approvals is running at a yearly rate of about 4800. More than 800 compassionate cases alone have been approved since the end of March. 
I am aware that stories about some malpractice in various places, in particular Cyprus, are circulating in the Lebanese community at the moment. They came to my attention last week and at the moment I am urgently investigating them. I note also that an advertisement has been placed by the Opposition spokesman on immigration in a newspaper called the  Middle East News,  in which he makes some assertions about the number of Lebanese in Australia. 
The honourable member says that they are all true. In his advertisement he says that there are between 150 000 and 200 000 Lebanese in Australia. In fact the number is between 50 000 and 55 000. He says that the Australian Labor Party would bring at least 10 000 Lebanese to Australia. He does not say how these people would be chosen and under what conditions they would be brought here. What I am saying is that since the crisis in the Lebanon developed the Government has been in close and continuing consultation with leaders of the Lebanese community in Australia. The consultations are continuing, and we hope to be able to announce a special project within the next few days. The Government at all times has sought not to make political capital out of what is an extremely tragic situation. If the honourable member for Lang has any specific cases that he wishes to bring to my attention, I assure him that I will give them my close consideration. 
I am not aware that telexes were not sent to the posts surrounding the Lebanon. I will check immediately after question time to see whether what the Leader of the Opposition says is correct. Let me assure the honourable gentleman and all honourable gentlemen that the criteria in relation to family reunion being applied throughout the world apply to parents, husbands and wives and dependent children of Lebanese residents of Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes, in response to the statement made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Yesterday in an answer I gave during question time I said: ... he makes some assertions about the number of Lebanese in Australia. 
The honourable member for Melbourne interjected: 
They are all true, too. 
I then said: 
The honourable member says that they are all true. In his advertisement- 
I take his point that it was not an advertisement- he says that there are between 150 000 and 200 000 Lebanese in Australia. 
Finally I quote again from my answer. I said: 
The consultations are continuing, and we hope to be able to announce a special project within the next Tew days. The Government at all times has sought not to make political capital out of what is an extremely tragic situation. 
If the honourable member reckons that refers to him, obviously it is not contained in this statement. 

 Mr INNES ( Melbourne  )-Mr Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented by the Minister's statement. 
The honourable member has asked some detailed questions. I will treat them as a question on notice and provide him with an answer this afternoon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applicants for the grant of Australian citizenship who are found unable to meet the requirements of (a) 14(1) (f) and (b) 14 ( 1 ) (g) of the Australian Citizenship Act 1 948 do not have their applications rejected outright. They are informed that further consideration of their application has been deferred until such time as they feel they can satisfy the requirements. 
In each of the last 3 calendar years, the numbers of applicants who have had their applications deferred under these provisions were: 
Report on establishment of Institute of Development Studies (Question No. 871) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Under the provisions of the long standing global visitor policy, people entering Australia on tourist visas are not permitted to engage in employment. 
However, in conjunction with the introduction on 1 . 1 . 75 of visa requirements for Commonwealth and Irish citizens of European descent, the Government decided that provision should be made for young citizens of the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland to be granted temporary residence visas for the purposes of working holidays in Australia. Before 1.1.75 such persons required no prior authority to enter Australia for that purpose; in fact until that date Commonwealth and Irish citizens of European descent required no prior authority to come to Australia for any purpose. 
Young Australians enjoy the facility of entering Britain for working holiday purposes and it was decided that in reciprocation young citizens of the United Kingdom should have a similar facility under the visa conditions introduced on 1 January 1975. At the same time the facility was extended to young Irish and Canadian citizens. Under the decision eligibility was confined to young United Kingdom citizens applying in the United Kingdom, young Irish citizens applying in Ireland or the United Kingdom and young Canadian citizens applying in Canada. 
Statistics are not maintained on working holiday makers in Australia at a given time. In the first full year of operation of the scheme 1408 United Kingdom citizens, 248 Canadian citizens and 36 Irish citizens were admitted to Australia as working holiday makers. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. Earlier this evening, the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  took the opportunity of speaking on the adjournment motion in relation to Lebanese migration to Australia. He took both my Department and me to task for what he alleged was an unsympathetic attitude. I have the relevant documents with me. It is correct that the honourable member for Lang telegrammed me in July. I acknowledged that telegram, and I gave him a detailed reply on 6 August. The honourable member did not pay me the courtesy of informing the House of what was contained in that detailed reply by letter on 6 August. Let me quote from it: 
On 1 April this year I made a statement to the Parliament pointing out the Government's sympathetic attitude to the victims of the present crisis, particularly those with relatives in Australia, and outlining special arrangements which were being put in train to assist them. 
Subsequently I issued news releases on 14 April, 20 May and 26 June announcing changes to these arrangements to deal with the situation as it developed. I am attaching copies of these releases. 
It does not say much for the honourable member for Lang if he is insufficiently aware of ministerial statements or statements in relation to matters of great interest to his constituents if he was not aware of those releases before I sent copies of them to him. 
This evening, I announced new procedures and initiatives in relation to assisting those people who have been rendered homeless or have been totally inconvenienced by the appalling events in The Lebanon. Let me quote from that news release: 
Every effort is being made to ensure that applications are dealt with as speedily as possible in the difficult circumstances in which processing has to take place . . . 
Since 1 January this year visas covering more than 2200 Lebanese had been issued. The number issued had increased recently with some 390 persons being issued with visas in the month of August. SOS of these were issued in Nicosia alone. 
At present more than 8000 Lebanese in Cyprus where Australia's Lebanese immigration operation has been concentrated. 
A senior officer of my Department with wide immigration experience in Australia and overseas was sent to Nicosia last weekend. He has extensive terms of reference to report on the most effective way in which the Lebanese immigration operation can be organised. A first report has already been received and I shall be placing proposals based on his recommendations before Cabinet at the earliest opportunity . . . 
Additionally, as a result of close and continuing discussions we are assisting members of the Lebanese community in Sydney and Melbourne in a special project. Lists of spouses, dependent children and parents of Australian residents will be made available and the applications assessed speedily by my Department. 
Members oi the Lebanese community will shortly be travelling overseas to arrange for group movements of those accepted. 
I believe that these initiatives are firmly in line with the Government's continuing concern to effect the reunion of close family relatives overseas with Lebanese residents in Australia. I think it is worth while pointing out to the House the difficulty under which Australian officers have been working. Firstly, during the crisis in Lebanon, we maintained a presence in Beirut sometimes under conditions of quite extreme danger. Immigration officers did stay there and did process applications. They ensured that those people who had received permission to come to Australia had their applications processed with the minimum possible delay. Following that action, we set up a special initiative in Damascus with the agreement of the Syrian Government and the close co-operation of the Dutch Government. That exercise lasted for some months and we again processed a considerable number of cases through that exercise. On 24 August, the honourable member for Lang asked me a question in the House about Lebanese migration. I concluded my reply by saying: 
If the honourable member for Lang has any specific cases that he wishes to bring to my attention, I assure him that I will give them my close consideration. 
He did not bring to me personally those cases which he mentioned this evening. I believe that the record of the Department is a very good one. I believe that the officers have worked long, hard and well and have displayed great consideration and co-operation with members of the Lebanese community in Australia. I believe that the Government has displayed continuing concern and consideration for what is, after all, a most tragic series of circumstances affecting the lives of a great number of people. 
House adjourned at 1 1.6 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No persons have been appointed under sub-section 40 ( 1 ) of the Migration Act. 
The answer to the honourable members' question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. (See sub-section ( 1 ) of section 7 of the Migration Act.) 
) Statistics have not been maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The honourable member asked me the same question on 28 May 1976 (Question No. 756) and the answer which I provided, and which appeared in Hansard on 17 August 1976, states the situation which still pertains to this time i.e. eight (8) persons have been deported pursuant to section 14  of  the Migration Act and six (6) Commissioners have been appointed. 
As I stated previously appointments of Commissioners are made having regard to the location of the hearings and the availability or otherwise of Commissioners appointed previously to hear further cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Deportation statistics in their present compre-effected pursuant to sections 1 6 and 1 8 of the Migration Acthensive form have been maintained only since 1965. The fol-from 1965 to 1975 and the sub-sections of section 16 under lowing table shows the numbers of deportation orders which the persons concerned became prohibited immigrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration is currently being given to the question of whether the Australian Government should seek the status of an Observer Government with ICEM 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. This evening for the second time the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has raised the question of the situation in the Lebanon and the Australian Government's response to it. I think this is a very serious question and should be treated as such. I believe that it should be treated in a non-political manner, and anybody who seeks to make political capital out of the situation is doing a disservice to himself, to the Australian nation and to the Australian Lebanese community. Perhaps I can briefly recount the position. As a nation we were faced with a situation in the Lebanon where there was over many months an increasing escalation of the undeclared civil war. The previous Government maintained the Australian presence in Beirut and, following the change of government, the present Government maintained that presence in Beirut. As I mentioned last week, the officers who were working in that area did so often in circumstances of extreme danger. In March an untenable stage was reached and it was decided to withdraw the Australian presence from Beirut. I mentioned at the time that the Australian Government, and I in particular as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, would keep a close watch on the unfolding events in the Lebanon and would respond to them as they occurred. On both sides of the Parliament we all hoped that the unhappy civil situation in the Lebanon would be resolved quickly. Unfortunately, that has not occurred, and from the information I have it appears that that resolution will not be achieved rapidly. In other words, it appears that the undeclared civil strife in the Lebanon will continue, at least for as long as we can foreshadow, and I say that with the utmost regret. 
As I have said, the Government took a decision to maintain a watching brief over this Middle East situation, and when the quasi refugee buildup was such that something extra needed to be done the Department of Immigration, with the co-operation of the Syrian Government and also the Royal Netherlands Government, placed an officer in Damascus. That officer operated by himself in Damascus in conditions of extreme difficulty for more than a month and processed a great number of people. At that stage we were concentrating on re-uniting families in category A- husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, dependent children. While I was overseas in June I took the opportunity during a visit to Athens to look closely at the situation as it was unfolding, particularly in Nicosia, which was becoming the centre of our operations for Lebanese people who wished to come to Australia. As a result of that consideration the presence of Australian immigration officials in Nicosia was strengthened, exactly in line with the actions of a number of other countries. In other words, here again was a graduated response to a developing situation. As I have already mentioned, that situation has continued and now we are faced with the problem of some 8000 Lebanese people in Cyprus- in Nicosia- wishing to travel to other countries, and in most cases to Australia. 
Again in a continuing response to the situation, some 10 days ago I sent a senior officer of my Department to Nicosia. I mentioned this last week. That officer has already sent in one detailed report. His objective in going to Nicosia was to report to the Government on ways by which the backlog of cases there could be overcome. He has put forward suggestions which will be taken into consideration in the very near future. 
I am seeking to point out to the House that, in line with its policy, clearly stated on more than one occasion over a number of months, the Government has made a series of policy decisions in relation to the continuing situation in the Lebanon. The first report from my senior officer in Nicosia has been received and will be the basis of a submission to the Cabinet which will be considered in the very near future. 
I should like to say a couple of things in relation to numbers. In the 12 months ending in midAugust 1 976, 26 10 visas were issued to Lebanese people wishing to come to Australia. The rate of approval since the temporary closure of the embassy in Beirut has been running at a level equivalent to 3500 a year. More recently the rate of applications and approvals has increased, and from 1 August to 16 August, 211 visas were issued in Nicosia alone. That is equivalent to an annual rate of approval of some 4800 visas. In a situation like that there will always be individual circumstances where cases are mislaid, where difficulties occur, where delays occur. I hope that we are all reasonable people and will understand that they can happen. I have pointed out to the honourable member for Lang that if he knows of specific cases he should bring them to my attention and I will consider them. Other people are doing the same sort of thing and I am considering those cases and so is my Department. 
I again make the point that the Government has responded to a situation of real humanitarian concern. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Lang, who said that those people coming to Australia should not bring with them the hatreds and enmities that they have had in countries overseas. I point out to the honourable member for Lang that the Government has moved consistently to deal as practically as possible with the escalating problem of quasi refugees from the Lebanon. The Government will continue to do that, but I make the point that no country has the capacity to bear the full burden in such circumstances. As Minister for Immigration, my first responsibility is to the Australian population, the Australian society, the Australian nation. That responsibility is, amongst other things, to safeguard the national health and the national security of this country. Any person, no matter from which area he comes, must be assessed in terms of his capacity to fit in with Australia's national health requirements and national security requirements. I make that point very clearly, and I am sure that the honourable member for Lang will agree with me when I make it. 
The situation in the Lebanon is most unfortunate, as we all recognise. I hope that no member on either side of this Parliament would seek to make political capital out of a situation which we all deplore in relation to a most unhappy and devastated nation such as the Lebanon is today. I do not suggest that the honourable member for Lang is seeking to do that. I am sure he is not. I do say that the Government has accepted its responsibilities. It has responded progressively to the situation. It will combine to respond progressively, but again I make the proviso that there is no way by which any nation, let alone Australia, can bear the full brunt of the horrific national tragedy which is the Lebanon today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Special Reports Section forms part of the Control Branch of the Department. 
It provides a specialist service function to all areas of the Department in respect of : 
the investigation of offences against laws administered by the Department and of organised circumvention of immigration policies and procedures; 
the establishment and development of procedures for the prevention and detection of immigration malpractice; 
the collection, analysis and dissemination of information of concern to the Department in relation to its overall control functions; and 
the prevention of the exploitation of migrants in collaboration with other agencies where necessary. 
There are 18 positions of which 2 are for translators and 2 for clerical assistants. The Section is currently 3 officers below the authorised establishment of 1 8. 
Officers generally have at least six years experience in other areas of the Department. 3 have previous law enforcement experience. Training in the specialised functions of the Section continues on an in-service basis with additional formal assistance from other specialist agencies as needed. 
For the information of honourable members I present the seventh annual report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. I seek leave to make a statement in connection with this report and in connection with inter-country adoptions. 
by leaveRecent publicity has been given to situations where residents of Australia have proceeded overseas to arrange adoptions of young persons without obtaining the necessary support of Australian child welfare authorities. I should like to inform the House of the Government's attitude to the entry of children in such circumstances, thereby providing guidance on the Government's policy to potential adoptive parents. This should help to avoid the disappointment that Australian residents seeking to adopt children overseas may experience if authority for entry of the children to Australia is withheld because of non-compliance with Australian requirements for adoptions. 
An Australasian conference on adoption held in early 1975 considered that the particular objectives of inter-country adoptions should be: 
to promote the welfare of the child; 
to meet the circumstances of Australian citizens who desire to adopt a child from an overseas country; 
to ensure as far as practicable that the adoption will be successful and that the child will settle harmoniously into its new community. 
Quite often an Australian resident has adopted a child in an overseas country and sought entry of the child to Australia. This sort of situation was considered in May 1976 by a conference of Australian State and Territory social welfare administrators which recommended that immigration policy should be reviewed for children subject to foreign adoption orders to allow entry only of those who have been subject to orders likely to be recognised by an Australian Court; who have been subject to orders considered unlikely to be recognised in Australia but where the adopting parents have been approved as suitable to adopt by the adoption authorities in their State or Territory of normal residence; or who have had a child-parent relationship of long standing and where refusal of entry of the child would not promote his or her welfare and best interests. 
As Minister for Immigration and Ethic Affairs, my role is primarily to determine applications for entry to Australia of children for adoption on the basis of the principles and recommendations I have mentioned. In accordance with those principles and subject to sound health the entry to Australia of an overseas child is normally approved where the adoption proposal has the support of the child welfare authorities in the State or Territory of residence of the proposed adoptive parents, and the authorities in the overseas country in which the child is living are agreeable to the adoption being arranged. In all adoption procedures the welfare of the child is of paramount importance and so far as inter-country adoptions are concerned the Australian Government will be guided by the views of the State or Territory child welfare authorities. Observance of this arrangement will ensure that the best interests of children involved in " inter-country adoption will be served and that their legal rights will be established. 
As I have already mentioned, a committee was set up comprising both staff of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and staff from my Department. That committee received submissions from about 250 individuals and organisations. As a result of the report of that committee, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and I put in a joint submission to the Cabinet. It was considered by the Cabinet, and the decision has been publicly announced. I strongly support the decision as it was announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Australian Population and Immigration Council entitled  A Decade of Migrant Settlement: Report on the 1973 Immigration Survey. 
I did see comments by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne about the Government's decision permanently to fund ethnic radio and to make it a part of but a separate entity within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think the comments by the honourable gentlemen were a little wide of the mark, to say the least. In fact, the Government considered some 250 submissions from individuals and ethnic groups which, with very few exceptions, recommend that ethnic radio be funded by the Government and that ethnic communities be given access to the programming and the direction the programs should take. The Government took these submissions into very close consideration. The decision announced means that ethnic radio will be put on a permanent basis. It will be funded totally by the Commonwealth. There will be opportunities for ethnic communities to influence the direction of programming. A Commonwealth advisory council and State advisory council will be set up. On each of those councils there will be a majority of members of the ethnic communities. The Government's decision means that ethnic radio, as I have said, will be put on a permanent basis not only to the benefit of ethnic communities but to the benefit of all Australians. 
There have been some comments about political bias in programs beamed from station 3ZZ in Melbourne and the experimental stations 2EA and 3EA. The Government, in its consideration of ethnic broadcasting, has made it absolutely plain that political partisanship must be avoided. We have sought to do this by putting ethnic radio in the hands of an independent organisation such as the ABC but have suggested that ethnic broadcasting should be a separate unit similar to Radio Australia. I believe the Government's decision reflects very largely the majority of views as expressed by members of the ethnic community and I believe permanent ethnic radio, as decided by the Government, will be beneficial for ethnic communities and the Australian population as a whole. 
-The Government has been concerned with abuses of the transit facilities offered to people landing in Australia on their way to a third country. Information came to us earlier this year which indicated that a scheme was being perpetrated, involving in that particular case nationals from India. It appeared that this scheme had been in operation for well over a year and a check of the records indicated that quite a proportion of people who did seek transit facilities in fact had not gone on to the third country. I am also concerned about the numbers of seamen deserters and overstayed visitors who are abusing their visitor visa entitlements. Honourable members will remember that earlier this year the steamer  Australis  was the vessel from which some 54 people decamped and sought to evade normal immigration controls. Since May of this year some 1 13 Indians have been arrested in various States of the Commonwealth, particularly Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia and also in an area within the honourable member's own electorate. 
Of those 113 the majority have since been deponed. Efforts are being made to overcome the situation which has been revealed. 
I should make it clear that Indian nationals are not the only people involved in efforts to circumvent Australian immigration requirements. I believe it is totally unfair to those people seeking to enter Australia legally, that particular consideration should be given to these people who have sought to circumvent the normal regulations. The Government is pursuing a strong line in relation to people who do abuse transit facilities, who do desert ships and who do abuse visitor facilities. 
Following the earthquake earlier this year, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested, special priority was given to people from the Friuli region. Those applications already in the pipeline were given accelerated attention. Those people who applied and were within the normal migration criteria were accepted. In addition, those who could demonstrate special compassionate circumstances were also given special attention. Those special arrangements have continued to operate since the previous earthquake. Following the most recent earthquake, advice has been given to the authorities in Italy to maintain those special arrangements. My latest information, which I believe is dated 16 September, is that up until 16 September some 31 cases involving over 60 people had been accepted from this region. There is some indication that greater interest may be shown by people from the Friuli region as a result of the most recent earthquakes. I can assure the honourable member that the previous guidelines still apply. 
The people who come within the normal migration criteria are being accepted. If they do not come within the normal migration criteria or cannot demonstrate particular compassionate circumstances, then they will not be acceptable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:, ( 1 ), (2) and ( 3 ). Matters relating to  Mr Ignazio  Salemi are the subject of action before the High Court. In these circumstaces it would not be appropriate for me to comment at present. 
The following answer to the honourable member's question has been provided: 
1 ) and (2) Although preliminary results from the Household Expenditure Survey 1974-75 were released by the Australian Statistician in July 1976 (Bulletin No. 2), no details have yet been released of the expenditure pattern for households where the head of the household was born overseas. 1 understand that it will be some months before the tabulations involving the type of data referred to will be available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-The Minister for Social Security and I are in close consultation about those matters of mutual concern. I have been speaking with the Minister about the matters referred to by the honourable gentleman. The Government will make an announcement in due course. 
Pursuant to sub-section 12D (5) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973, I present a copy of the Academic Salaries Tribunal 1976 Review containing one determination and 3 Reports. The Government does not intend to move for disapproval. 
by leave- The Government has today taken decisions to enable more expeditious handling of Lebanese migration to Australia. The Government has taken its decisions in circumstances where there is no immediate prospect of an end to the conflict within the Lebanon and there is thus a long-time migration situation of probably increasing dimensions. After it became necessary to evacuate the Australian Embassy in Beirut late in March 1976, special arrangements were introduced to facilitate processing of applications from Lebanese at Australian posts in nearby countries. The normal immigration criteria were relaxed for Lebanese who had suffered hardship as a result of the conflict within the Lebanon. 
As from the end of June our Lebanese migration operations were centred in Nicosia in Cyprus, and there are now 3 Australia-based migration officers and 7 locally engaged staff operating through our Nicosia office. They have to handle the large volume of Lebanese migration as well as a work load in relation to Cypriot migration. The numbers of applications and nominations for Lebanese to come to Australia have continued to increase. By way of example, applications received in Nicosia totalled 247 in June, 1076 in July and 1149 in August. In the first 3 weeks of September 579 applications were received in Nicosia at a time when the inflow of Lebanese had been regulated by the Cypriot authorities and there had been bad weather in the area restricting entrance to Cyprus by sea. 
On 9 September 1976 I announced initiatives to speed up the processing of nominations submitted in Australia for close relatives from the Lebanon of Australian residents to come to Australia. Special projects have been undertaken in close and continuing association with the Lebanese communities in Sydney and Melbourne for representatives to travel overseas to arrange for group movements to Australia of those accepted. Those initiatives were in line with the Government's continuing concern to effect the reunion of close family relatives overseas with Lebanese residents in Australia. The scale of Lebanese migration is demonstrated by the fact that under the special project up to 22 September 1976 nominations received in Sydney and Melbourne covered totals of 2129 and 392 persons respectively. It is anticipated that another 1000 persons will be nominated in Sydney. 
It is likely, therefore, that there will be a substantial increase in the numbers of Lebanese arriving in Australia in the near future. In the period from 1 January to 17 September 1976 more than 2600 Lebanese have been issued with visas for entry to Australia. In the period 1 January to 30 August 1976, 1324 persons showing Lebanon as their country of last residence arrived in Australia. In view of the escalating work load associated with processing applications and nominations in Nicosia, a senior officer of the central office of my Department was sent to Nicosia on 4 September 1976 to report on the most effective way of organising our operation in Cyprus. The decisions taken by the Government today were based in part on the recommendations in his reports. 
An important consideration affecting the decisions taken has been the increasing problems caused by the large number of Lebanese within Cyprus. There are at present some 8000 persons from the Lebanon in Cyprus and this situation is causing a range of problems for both the Lebanese people themselves and the people and authorities of Cyprus. It is important that delays in processing potential Lebanese migrants from Cyprus be kept to a minimum. Accordingly, the Government today has approved the sending of a task force of experienced officers to Cyprus as a matter of urgency to handle nominations and applications for migration to Australia. With the arrival of the task force there will be 9 Australiabased officers in Cyprus, including a medical officer, so that medical examinations can be completed quickly on the spot. The Australiabased officers will be supplemented by locally engaged staff, including interpreters. The task force will remain in Cyprus for 3 months and the special immigration operation in Nicosia will then be reviewed. My Department's officers on the spot have been making a Herculean effort to cope with the situation. They have been working more than 12 hours a day but the number of unresolved applications and nominations has continued to mount. The task force will enable the backlog to be cleared quickly. 
The Government has also decided to define more clearly those persons normally resident in the Lebanon who are eligible to migrate to Australia under the present circumstances. This will assist Australian residents in deciding whether to nominate their close relatives overseas and will also enable the Cypriot authorities to determine whether individual Lebanese should be allowed to enter Cyprus for the purpose of migration to Australia. As from 1 October 1976 the following persons normally resident in the Lebanon will be eligible to come to Australia, after meeting normal health and character requirements: Spouses and dependent children of Australian residents; parents, both aged and dependent and those who are nondependent and of working age, of Australian residents; nominated brothers and sisters of Australian residents; and persons eligible under the normal acceptable occupations list. The dependants of persons in the above groups, where appropriate, will also be eligible. These criteria will apply until the end of this year and then be reviewed. In order to ensure that those Lebanese accepted move quickly from Cyprus, thus allowing others to enter Cyprus for processing without causing increasing pressures in that country, it has been decided that visas issued to Lebanese from 1 October 1976 be valid for 3 months. 
A new requirement is to be introduced to apply generally- that is, to persons of any nationality- that persons must be permanent residents for a minimum of one year before being eligible to nominate persons overseas for migration to Australia. This requirement will not apply to nominations of spouses and dependent children. In the current circumstances of high levels of unemployment in Australia there may be employment difficulties for Lebanese migrants, many of whom are unskilled or semiskilled. I shall be conferring with the Lebanese communities to enlist their support in ensuring the successful resettlement of their relatives in Australia. This consultation will cover means whereby the Lebanese communities themselves can assume wider responsibilities for post-arrival resettlement of their relatives. 
The action I have announced tonight is a clear testimony to the desire of the Government to deal humanely and effectively with the unfortunate circumstances in which so many Lebanese relatives of Australian residents now find themselves. It will mean added pressures on Australian services in the short term but the inconvenience and difficulties this involves must be seen against the situation of continuing despair and personal hardship which these people face. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a follows: 
1 ) The only country in which Australia is advertising for migrants at present is Britain since it is the most likely source of workers with trade or professional skills readily recognised and in strong and continuing demand in Australia. The British Government imposes no restriction on the amount or type of migrant advertising, unlike some other overseas countries which, for a variety of reasons, do not allow direct advertising. 
The advertisements are appearing for an eleven week period from July to September in a 'pilot' campaign. A limited budget of $40,000 has been allocated for this purpose. 
and (3) The countries in which my Department has advertised directly for migrants over the past ten years are listed below: 
Austria- 1 967-68 to 1973-74; 
Belgium- 1 967-68 to 1973-74; 
Britain- 1 967-68 to 1974-75; ltaly-1967-68to 1973-74; 
Malta-1967-68 to 1971-72; 
Netherlands- 196 7-68 to 1974-75. 
General advertising about Australia was carried out in the following countries: 
Denmark- 1967-68 to 1973-74; 
France- 1967-68 to 1973-74; 
Switzerland- 1967-68 to 1973-74; 
Sweden, Norway and Finland-1967-68 to 1973-74; 
West Germany- 1967-68 to 1973-74. 
Further details of past advertising were given in reply to the honourable member's question No. 6387 placed on House of Representatives Notice Paper for 17 August 1972 (see  Hansard dated  26 October 1972.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The list of occupations approved for migration is drawn up by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in consultation with my Department; that Department being the best informed Government agency on labour market matters. The list is prepared from a range of sources and includes an appraisal: 
of recent trends, patterns and opinions in surveys of current and expected business and consumer demands published by such organisations as the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, etc; 
from information both written and verbal received from a wide range of employers and professional associations, trade unions, educational and training institutions, Government Departments, authorities and instrumentalities (both Commonwealth and State) and banking institutions; 
from CES statistics and information obtained by the CES labour market intelligence network. 
The list is kept under continuous review and is constantly amended, in accordance with labour market needs. It shows the employment situation on a State basis for all of the categories included and also includes additional comments in respect of job qualifications and required experience, where necessary. 
During the last 2 years some 2000 Indo-Chinese refugees have been admitted to Australia. Since this Government came to power approximately 1000 have been admitted for permanent residence. A number of these people have nominated relatives to come to Australia. One of the problems associated with the movement of these nominated relatives to Australia is that many of these people are located in refugee camps, in Thailand particularly. These refugee camps are in remote areas. To process the application requires the establishment of an immigration team, including medical personnel, to travel to the camps and to assess the people on the spot. It is not possible to deal with the nominations received from people in Australia as one would deal with a normal immigration sponsorship. However, the Government is concerned about its responsibilities in relation to refugee applications. These nominations are being gathered together. I am hopeful that in the not too distant future we will be in a position to make a further announcement in relation to additional refugees, particularly from the Indo-China area. 
(10.8)- I want to thank honourable members who have taken part in this debate. There has been an interesting division in the contributions put forward by members on both sides of the House. The first point relates to population policy and it is an interesting development. Within our community we are beginning to get more detailed consideration of immigration- it has been exemplified by statements tonight- not just in terms of immigration but in terms of the broader context of a population policy for Australia and that is what we are seeking. We are seeking to develop within the community at large a realistic well-informed debate about the future size of Australia's population. I was very pleased that a number of honourable members referred in this debate this evening to immigration not just in terms of immigration for itself but in terms of a broader policy. 
I was very disappointed with the contributions by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I will deal firstly with the contribution by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I do not want to be unkind to him but we all know that occassionally he gets a little imprecise in his statements. He said that the present Government was at fault in bringing another 70 000 people here to add to our unemployment. This is a gross over-simplificatoin of the immigration program for this current financial year. In passing I point out that the 70 000 figure for the program is the second lowest figure since 1947. The Government, of which he was a member, had a figure of 50 000 people. The composition of the intake is such that it is composed largely of family reunion cases, refugee cases and occupationally selected people. At the finish of his contribution the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that we should have concern for family reunions and humane considerations in relation to refugees. Therefore he can only be arguing with that section of the immigration intake which is related to occupationally selected migrants. If we look at the occupationally selected migrants we find that they are in categories for which there is a continuing and unfilled demand in Australia. The people selected have qualifications or trade skills both needed and recognised in Australia. 
In fact, the people who will be competing with Australians for jobs in terms of the immigration intake fall largely within the family reunion category and humanitarian category both those sectors of the intake which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said we must continue. In terms of sheer logic- this is not unusual for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- his case simply does not hold water. He also referred to statements made in 1972 about the possible size of the future population for Australia. Of course, he did not add that those statements were made before the Borrie Committee reported. The Borrie Committee projections were based on the 1971 census. They only became available to the Australian Government in 1975. We all know that the projections of the Borrie Committee made mincemeat out of the policy considerations which affected the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's portfolio when he was a Minister in the previous Government 
I thank the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  for his contribution. He spoke in the longer term about an increase in immigration. I believe bis contribution was part of the series of contributions which related immigration to population policies. As he and other honourable members will know we are seeking through the Australian Population and Immigration Council to have a green paper prepared and ready for public consumption early next year. I am hopeful that honourable members and interested people within the public who have a commitment in this area and who have some strong feelings in relation to these matters will make their contributions to the Australian Population and Immigration Council. Of course, submissions have been sought through public advertisements. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  talked about zero population growth and about those people who were advocating zero population growth in what I thought was, at the same time, both an amusing and realistic manner. He exploded a number of the myths concerning zero population growth. He said that we should be realistic in our approach to those people who seek to come to Australia. I agree with him in relation to this matter. I am anxious to see that those people who apply to come to Australia and who are interviewed in relation to their applications get an accurate idea about the sorts of conditions they will be facing when they come to Australia. Of course, the places where they hope to go will affect the sorts of conditions which they will face. Certainly, it is my intention and the intention of my Department to provide intending migrants with accurate, up-to-date, realistic appreciations of conditions in Australia. We do not want people coming here with unrealistic views. We are seeking to ensure that people who come to Australia know the conditions that obtain in this country. 
In relation to permanent settlement, the honourable member for Prospect said that we should take into account the fact that people do move. I take his point. However, successive governments in Australia in relation to immigration policy have set aside the policies pursued by other governments- that is the guest worker concept. We seek people coming to Australia who intend, when they apply, to make Australia their home. Obviously, we realise that not everybody finds in the actuality of the situation that they wish to stay here or that circumstances allow them to stay here. We appreciate that a number of people will return to their country of origin for different sorts of reasons. We believe it is still realistic to promote a policy which provides that people who apply to immigrate to Australia should do so with the background that they wish to settle here permanently, bring up their children in Australia and contribute to the broader growth of Australian society. It is not, as the honourable member for Prospect suggested, hypocritical to suggest that students from other countries who come to Australia should return home while migrants should not. Part of the rationale behind our policy for students is that they should gain a benefit from education in Australia and take back with them to their country of origin the benefits of the education here so that the society from which they come can gain from the experience which they have had in Australia. I do not see anything hypocritical in that at all. 
I believe that the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  answered very fully the arguments advanced by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He also mentioned a publication called  Migrants Melbourne  which I have seen, both in its original form and in the expanded form in which it has recently become available. I join with him in praising this publication. I believe that it has done a great deal to fill in gaps in the information available to the various migrant communities. I would very much like to be in a position to be able to say that we will provide money for similar sorts of publications to be made available in all major centres of Australia. Unfortunately, budgetary restrictions do not allow this to become an actuality. However, it is the sort of initiative and publication which we support. Obviously, that suggestion will be kept very firmly in mind for the future. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in his contribution said that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was a misnomer because it did not have any ethnic affairs function. It was a little unfortunate that he had written his speech before the announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today in relation to the setting up of an ethnic affairs unit. That was a little unfortunate for the honourable member. He should have listened more closely a little before question time today before he made his statement. He also mentioned in some detail the situation of welfare workers and social workers in relation to grants administered by the Department of Social Security. He has raised this matter in the House before. That scheme at present provides for about 50 grants. Of course, it is inevitable that at any one time some positions will be unoccupied. When one thinks about this matter one realises that this is because of resignations at any one stage and recruitment which is in progress. In such cases the Department gives agencies reasonable time to fill or refill grant positions. This is why at any one time there will be some unfilled positions. 
The honourable member mentioned the matter of welfare workers but he should understand that until recently the rules of the scheme did not permit welfare workers  to  be employed. However, if he reads the statement made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on Budget night he will see that agreement in principle has now been obtained for welfare workers to be employed under this scheme. It is expected that a small number of grants for welfare officers will be possible this financial year. He also mentioned the matter of ethnic communities being concerned at the number of assisted passages from and advertising in Britain. If he looks at Question No. 882 in the  Hansard  of 23 September 1976 he will see an answer I gave to a question posed by the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member will find if he investigates the matter very closely that the present Government is pursuing a policy of previous governments, including one headed by the present Leader of the Opposition. It should be pointed out that a number of governments do not allow advertising for migrants. Therefore we have to schedule advertisements in countries which will allow that practice. 
What we are seeking to do in regard to the present very low key and very minimally funded advertising campaign in the United Kingdom is to change an attitude rather than recruit migrants. We are seeking to change an attitude brought about by the previous Australian Government's attitude towards British migrants which resulted in people in the United Kingdom feeling that they were not wanted in Australia any more. I was about to say that the honourable member is a little bit two-faced, but that is probably too strong a term. He is a new member and I do not want to use that expression about him. Let me put it this way: I would put more weight on his submissions in relation to his attitudes towards migrant numbers and their contribution to unemployment if I received fewer letters from the honourable member seeking the entry of people outside category. He is also one of the members who most frequently write to me seeking the entry to Australia of people who are outside the normal occupational categories and who, if I acceded to all the requests, would be competing with Australians for jobs. So I do have that difficulty in relation to the contribution from the honourable member. 
The only other comment I would make in relation to the speech made by the honourable member for Grayndler is in respect of his suggestion in a Press statement he put out earlier this year that there was something racist about the Government's attitude towards immigration. He instanced the advertising in Britain. This is completely and utterly false and does little credit to the honourable member. I made exactly the same statements about the number and categories of people being admitted to Australia in every country I visited, not only in the United Kingdom as was suggested by the honourable member. It does little credit to any honourable member to introduce the term 'racism' to this Parliament and this country when we are endeavouring to integrate people from over 100 different countries, particularly when such a charge cannot be backed up by the facts. 
I move on to the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. I am not sure whether what I am about to say is parliamentary or not,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but if ever I heard a hypocritical speech, this was it. This honourable gentleman led a Government at a time when a situation developed in Vietnam- and this fact has been evidenced by some contributions from this side of the House- where people were desperate to come to Australia. These were people who had fought with Australian troops, who had assisted Australian personnel, who had relatives in Australia and who had fiances in Australia. They were denied entry by one man and one man alone, and that was the then Prime Minister of Australia, the present Leader of the Opposition. The honourable gentleman talks about migrant intakes. He presided over the greatest cutback in migrant intake that this country has seen since 1947. He has a record in relation to refugee admittance that should make him ashamed. Yet he comes into this House and dares to take this Government to task for its alleged indiscretions or lack of action in relation to Lebanese migration in particular. It was an utterly shameful performance, and one which his whole Party should repudiate. 
You endorse it. That remark will live with you. The honourable gentleman finished his speech by saying- and I tried to write down what he said- that this Government will make it easier for Rhodesians to come to Australia than for reunions of families from the Lebanon. Let me say that this is one of the most arrant falsehoods that I have ever heard propagated in this Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition has no basis for such a statement. There is absolutely no truth in it. Once again it is an effort by this man to forment political strife, to make political capital out of a situation. Most honourable members are seeking to overcome the great humanitarian problem in relation to the Lebanon. The statements by the Leader of the Opposition did nothing to assist in that process. In fact all they did was to cloud the issue further. Again I say that all members of the Opposition should repudiate that statement by their socalled Leader. 
Other honourable members have made contributions to this debate. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  quite rightly referred to lead times in migration. This is something which is not readily understood by the great majority of the population and the honourable member is quite right in drawing attention to it He also mentioned the delays in the processing of applications for re-entry. I am aware of the problem and we are seeking to overcome it. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said that he was sorry to report that many people believed that the migration program was being undertaken to provide an easy supply of unskilled labour. This is definitely not the case, as I am sure the honourable member realises, and we must seek to dispel that illusion, because an illusion it is. The honourable member mentioned the application for amnesty by a particular gentleman. I understand that that case is still before the courts and therefore I am really not at liberty to make any comment about it. However, I would make one comment because the honourable member went on to say that we seem to be more tolerant towards right wing extremists than left wing extremists. Let me make it clear to the honourable member for Corio and to all honourable members that this Government does not tolerate extremists of either wing. We seek to avoid the conflicts that have developed in countries overseas. We seek to allow into Australia only those people who will readily integrate with Australian society and who will not bring with them the hatreds, animosities and strifes traditional in their countries of origin. I want to make that quite plain, not only to the honourable member for Corio but also to all other people who may be concerned. 
The honourable member for Corio also mentioned the long delay in responses. He mentioned a period of 6 months. There are very few cases in which a substantive reply is delayed for more than 6 months. I have taken the figures out on this matter because I was very concerned that it should not occur. As the honourable member quite rightly stated, delays cause trouble and strife to the people who have made applications. There will be delays in certain cases whilst checks are made and whilst applications are fully processed. We are seeking to cut down the delay as far as we possibly can. I might just point out that this is a new department and that the cutbacks in staff ceilings have affected it as they have affected every other department. I would like to state publicly that I have nothing but praise for the commitment, hard work and dedication of all members of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs both in Australia and overseas for the way they are handling the very greatly increased work load. As I have said, there will be some delay in certain circumstances but we are seeking to overcome that. 
The honourable member for Corio mentioned a particular case. I have just had handed to me a note that a letter will be going to the honourable member tomorrow in this connection. In general, I am very pleased that at least some of the contributors to the debate in relation to the estimates for my Department took the opportunity to draw immigration in the wider context of population policies. The Government has made an earnest endeavour to expand debate on this subject so that future public discussion will be carried out against the background of detailed and accurate information, not wild and inaccurate speculation. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I am aware that there is employed in Kalgoorlie a woman who is seeking to have her visitor status changed to that of resident status. I have considered this case on a number of occasions, particularly in response to the representations made by the honourable gentleman himself. I have come to the conclusion that whilst it is possible to change visitor status to resident status under certain conditions, those conditions do not apply in this particular case. In fact, when this person applied to come to Australia as a visitor she, in line with all other visitors, undertook not to seek employment in Australia. Unfortunately, she has not abided by the conditions of entry. She has sought employment and has been employed in Kalgoorlie. Whilst I have looked very closely at the representations made on her behalf by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and other people, I can see no way at this stage of varying my original decision to require her to abide by the conditions of her entry. 
I would like to take this opportunity to say that a great number of people from other countries wish to come to Australia in order to settle here. In the past rumours have been put around that if one is able to obtain visitor entry to Australia it is then easy to change from visitor status to permanent resident status. I would like to put that at rest right from this moment. I have been informed that rumours have been circulating in certain overseas countries to the effect that the Government is considering announcing another amnesty. That is certainly not the case. It is my view that those people seeking to enter Australia as visitors should abide by the conditions of their entry. Those who do not abide by the conditions of their entry will need to have extremely good reasons for me to agree to a change of status in future. 
My attention has been drawn to the newspaper reports to which the honourable member has referred. I think that many members of the Parliament have received correspondence relating to these reports. I wish to stress that the Commissioner for Community Relations is a statutory officer with certain functions set down in the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975. The Government supports the principles on which the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975 is based and adheres firmly to the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination which Australia has ratified. As a statutory officer the Commissioner for Community Relations is not a spokesman for the Commonwealth Government, nor do his statements necessarily reflect the Government's position on specific matters. 
In view of the wide interest generated by the reports which the honourable member has mentioned I requested the Commissioner for Community Relations to indicate whether the newspaper reports were an accurate statement of what he had said, and also requested information on the 23 organisations which are alleged to be racist and on the nature of the monitoring to which he referred. In the light of the Commissioner's response to my request I have no reason to doubt that the newspapers have reported his statement accurately. The monitoring to which he referred is conducted by his office. To indicate the nature of this monitoring he has provided me with a booklet prepared by his office titled  Racist Propaganda in Australia: A handbook of Hate.  That booklet contains a short foreword and a list of 23 organisations which the Commissioner regards as propagating racial prejudice in Australia. It also contains extracts from various publications by these organisations and various articles by journalists and others on certain of these organisations operating in Australia. The figure of 95 000 Australians quoted by the Commissioner for Community Relations as being members of the organisations is the total of the membership of the 23 organisations as estimated by them. However, that estimate of 95 000 includes a claimed estimate of 85 000 by the League of Rights. To my knowledge, none of these claims have been substantiated. 
I read the booklet very closely. Much of the material is from overseas. Some of it dates from several years ago, and some of it reproduces articles from newspapers and periodicals. Apart from the foreword and the list of organisations, there is no original material in the booklet. My suggestion to the Commissioner was not to circulate it. I made this suggestion simply because the booklet was not of a standard which in my view would bring any credit to the Commissioner or further the cause of those of us in the community who are opposed to racism and to discrimination based on racism. This is an extremely sensitive area. All honourable gentlemen are opposed to racial discrimination and the Government is committed to its elimination in Australia. However, there is within a free society the right to hold and express differing views as to the extent and composition of the migrant intake. 
It is a fact that assisted passages were given to the sons of a member of the Laotian royal family. To give the background to the case, the father of the 2 boys was amongst the 550 refugees who were brought from Thai refugee camps earlier this year. Honourable members will recall that one of the first things the Government did on attaining office was to initiate a refugee program involving some 800 people of Indo-Chinese background. Of those 800 people, approximately 550 came out of Thai refugee camps. The family of the 2 princes was amongst those 550 people. In line with the criteria established in relation to that exercise, split families were reunited whenever possible. In fact, family members of those people brought from Thailand were brought to Australia from such countries as France, the United States, Korea, Japan, and the Philippines. In terms of family reunion and in terms of the criteria relating to the refugee operation, those people were eligible for assisted passages. 
When the case of the 2 princes came to our attention, it was first stated that they were students in Japan and wished to complete a 2-year university course in that country. As such, they were not eligible for assisted passage at the expiration of the 2 years. When that was pointed out to them, they said they wished to be reunited with their family as quickly as possible. In those circumstances and in line with the general policy relating to the reuniting of families in this program, assisted passages were granted to them. I might say that there was absolutely no discrimination for or against these people. The Leader of the Opposition will recall the recent case of 2 young Indo-Chinese women in Victoria whose mother and 2 brothers managed to get to the United States. I have since made a decision that those people should be reunited and that they should be given assisted passages as well. The fact that these people are of the Laotian royal family in no way decides whether they are eligible for assisted passage. In terms of the criteria, they were eligible for assisted passage. The only dispute in the matter concerned our belief that their initial request was that they be allowed to remain in Japan for 2 years to complete their university courses. As soon as they altered that decision, they became eligible and assisted passages were granted. I might add that the remaining member of the family, a son who was at that stage in the Philippines, was also granted an assisted passage and travelled to Australia, I think, sometime in August. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to modify an answer I gave in the House last week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no trace of an application by an Australian resident to seek to have his sister accompany him on his return to Australia because of his medical condition. 
The individual case referred to is presumably one involving the question of the entry to Australia of the parents, two single brothers aged 40 and 35 and the single sister aged 24 of a resident of Australia whose other brother is an Australian citizen residing with them in Lebanon. 
The family members mentioned are the subjects of nominations lodged in Australia by a brother of the Australian citizen. 
The individual nomination for the sister was not accepted by the Department's Regional Office in Victoria in March 1 976 as she was not then within the classes eligible for entry to Australia. The sponsor did not claim that hardship existed as a result of the situation in the Lebanon. There was never any suggestion of a threat to Australia and this factor had no bearing on the decision taken. 
Following the statement of 23 September 1976 concerning the Government's review of immigration policy relating to persons normally resident in Lebanon, all members of the family are now eligible for migrant entry subject to their completion of normal health and character requirements. The appropriate Australian posts overseas are being suitably informed. 
I think it is singularly inappropriate for the Leader of the Opposition to raise a question about looking after those people who were concerned about their safety. I remember very clearly the fate of people in the beleaguered city of Saigon just prior to its fall. I remember very clearly the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition in relation to people who were in that city and to requests made by people in Australia regarding their relatives, fiancees, husbands, wives and families. I believe that this Government has demonstrated very clearly ever since it came to power a ready response to questions such as the one raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I am not aware of any fears expressed by Thai students in Australia at this stage. I will seek immediately to find out whether such fears have been expressed to departmental officials. In line with the Government's continuing policy in relation to questions of this nature, we will be looking very closely at any situation which could develop. If there are some cases which come to our attention, I will give them my urgent consideration. 
I require the debate to be extended. Earlier this evening at question time the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  asked me about Thai students in Australia who might be concerned for their safety in that they might be required to return to Thailand as a result of the military intervention in that country. In my response to the question of the Leader of the Opposition I undertook to find out as quickly as I could whether such fears had been expressed to my Department by Thai students presently in Australia as he had suggested. That question was asked at about 8.30 this evening and it has not been possible for a full search to be made within my Department. As recently as 10.50 this evening I was informed that to the best of the Department's knowledge no individual or group requests have been received from Thai students in Australia in relation to fears for their safety. This does not mean, of course, that those students in Australia do not have some fears for their safety but in fact my response this evening was correct. The Department is not aware at this stage of any individual or group requests. 
I make it demonstrably clear to everybody that Thai students and others still studying in Australia with some time to go before the completion of their studies obviously are not required to go home. If the students are successful in their studies, under the normal policy applying they can seek residence status in Australia and m line with normal policy their requests would be considered at that stage. Even if the students have not successfully completed their studies in Australiain other words, if they have been unsuccessful or have dropped out- they are not precluded from seeking permission to remain in Australia as permanent residents. Again, in line with normal policy the requests would be considered. However, I guess the gravamen of the approach of the Leader of the Opposition to this matter is that some blanket approval should be given to those students from Thailand who are uncertain about their future in that country, or who may fear for their lives should they be forced to return to that country. 
I believe it has been demonstrated quite clearly by myself as the responsible Minister, and by this Government since we came to office, that we have a compassionate approach in relation to the reuniting of families. I believe that our approach in assisting refugees has demonstrated quite clearly that we are aware of humanitarian and compassionate situations. I can assure any of the Thai students in Australia who fear for their safety should they return to Thailand, or be forced to return to Thailand, that their application to remain in Australia will be treated with the utmost sympathy. I make that absolutely clear. I believe that it did not do the Leader of the Opposition any credit to use the descriptions that he did in regard to the policies pursued by this Government or to the way in which I, as the Minister, have administered the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. We will continue to approach the questions sympathetically and with understanding. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. 
The contribution we have just heard from the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  is a classic example of being wise after the event. It is very easy for anybody in this House, with the full knowledge of the present situation, to stand up following an escalating series of events and accuse another person or governments of not taking appropriate action at appropriate times. What one forgets is that when one is reacting to a situation, one does so with the knowledge that is then available. Let me point out to the honourable member and to the House as a whole that the reaction of the Government has been constant and consistent and it has sought to overcome the problems as they became known to us. In fact, when we read the honourable member's speech, I believe we will see that he has quoted me as making a number of statements in relation to the Lebanese situation all of which demonstrate a continuing concern, and a continuing reaction and a continuing humanitarian approach to those people who have found themselves in this tragic situation. 
I agree very definitely with one aspect of the honourable member's speech, namely that part of it in which he congratulated the officers who have been concerned with processing the applications not only in Nicosia but also in Damascus and other posts and who have been working under extreme difficulties in many cases. I remind the honourable member and the House of the extreme difficulties under which officers have been working in Beirut prior to the evacuation of our embassy in March of this year. I have seen the cables coming back from that post detailing in very graphic style the extreme difficulties and dangers under which officers worked. I agree with the honourable member that those people concerned deserve the utmost congratulation. 
I do not believe that the charge can be substantiated that the Government has a shoddy record in relation to this problem. If one looks at my statements in relation to the Lebanese situation, one sees that they commenced early this year on 15 January when the Government made a decision that visitors from Lebanon who did not wish to return home because of the civil dispute there could apply to extend their stay in Australia. At that stage the fighting was escalating in Lebanon and the immigration staff in Beirut was reduced. However, we undertook to keep the situation under constant review and that occurred. On 14 April special arrangements to process applications by Lebanese people were announced. The position in Beirut did not allow the return of Australian embassy staff and we announced the co-ordination of migration action in the area from Athens. 
The honourable member has mentioned already the temporary establishment of an immigration office in Damascus. That took place on 8 April. The honourable member has made great play of the work of the officer in Damascus and the fact that he was recalled. I believe that the honourable member and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  have been unfair in this matter. When this decision was announced it was understood that it was in the nature of a temporary operation. All of us at that time hoped that the situation in the Lebanon would stabilise and that there would be a resumption of normality. If one looks at the statements of honourable members on both sides of the House one finds that this is the case. We could not anticipate that the fighting would escalate in the way it did. As I say, the measures were taken in the hope that the situation would return to normal in the shortest possible time. The officer who was established in Damascus was located in the Royal Netherlands Embassy. I reiterate my thanks to the Dutch Government for allowing us to take that action. 
The principal difficulty was that while the Syrian authorities agreed to our approaches in 
Damascus as a temporary, informal and very low-key operation, they indicated that continuation of the activity would need to be formalised in accordance with usual diplomatic procedures. In late June advice was received from the Syrian authorities that it would not be possible to extend our immigration activities in Syria beyond the end of June. Clearly, the question of Australian diplomatic representation in Syria must be resolved on the basis of a wider range of issues rather than the need just to maintain a shortterm immigration operation, and that an operation to process applications from people outside Syria. Only today in response to a question without notice in the House the Acting Foreign Minister  (Mr Sinclair)  has given an indication that some action is being undertaken in relation to a permanent presence in Syria. 
Bearing in mind the explanation I have just given to the honourable member and the House, I think the action taken by the Government can now be seen, particularly in view of the situation at that stage, as being responsible. It was also in line with the situation which the Canadians had established. They had centralised their Lebanese operations in Nicosia earlier that year. The honourable member said- he is parroting the phrase of his Leader- that I announced the change on a Saturday so that it would not be reported. That is a gross slander. The fact of the matter was that I was in Athens at that stage. I had discussions in Athens with officers concerned with the Lebanese situation. It was decided that the operation should be centralised in Nicosia. I made the statement that the new arrangements should be made public as soon as possible. The fact that 'as soon as possible' meant that it was released on the Saturday bore no relation to any attempt to conceal what we were doing. There was a public statement. There was no attempt whatsoever to conceal what the Government was doing. In fact, an announcement was also released to the Arabic and Lebanese newspapers. I believe that this again clearly refutes any allegation that we were seeking to conceal what had taken place. 
On 20 May I made an announcement before I left for overseas that special staffing arrangements had been made at Australian posts in Athens, Nicosia, Cairo and Ankara. This conditional and continued response went on as the situation unfolded. On 26 June the statement I have referred to was made. This reaffirmed that posts in Athens, Ankara, Cairo and Tel Aviv would continue to receive applications from Lebanese seeking to migrate as part of the special arrangements for Lebanese migration during the present emergency. A decision was taken as part of a continuing review designed to assist Lebanese eligible under special guidelines to come to Australia. 
On 13 August another statement was again made. This was a reaffirmation of instructions to posts on guidelines applicable including the waiving of health requirements where applicable- again a special response by the Government to the situation in which people seeking to escape from Lebanon and managing to escape from Lebanon were finding themselves. A total of 854 persons had already been approved under the special arrangements, all of whom were outside normal family reunion and occupational criteria. The Department continued to approve applications because of compassionate circumstances at the rate of approximately 2500 a year. This was in addition to the significant number of visas being issued on the basis of normal family reunion criteria. At that stage and previously this action was acknowledged and appreciated by the Lebanese community leaders in Australia. On 9 September again there was a reaffirmation that applicants in difficult circumstances would be dealt with as speedily as possible. 
Since 1 January 1976 visas covering more than 2200 Lebanese have been issued. In the month of August 590 persons were issued with visas. Of these visas, 505 were issued in Nicosia alone. That was the stage at which an announcement was made that a senior officer had been sent to Nicosia the previous weekend to investigate and report on the most effective way in which the Lebanese immigration operation could be organised. The first report of that officer,  Mr Waterman,  had been received and an urgent submission was made to Cabinet. As I say, the Cabinet discussed that as a matter of urgency. Again a further statement was made reaffirming the special staff arrangements at posts in Ankara, Nicosia, Cairo and Athens. On 15 September the special projects for Lebanese community representatives to travel overseas and to be involved in the presentation of nominations to Australian posts and to arrange group movement was announced. 
Now this did not just occur overnight. This was the result of a continuing series of consultations and meetings with the Lebanese communities in Australia. Some 3000 relatives had been nominated or were being nominated. Obviously there had to be some cut-off date for this particular program and it was announced as being 30 September. On 23 September I made a  statement in the House concerning the new initiatives and the establishment of a task force. As the honourable member has already stated, that task force went to Nicosia as a matter of urgency and is already operating there. It has already had a significant effect in cutting down the waiting time for people wishing to come to Australia. 
The honourable gentleman suggests that somehow the Lebanese community has not been appreciative or has regarded what the Government has done as being less than forthcoming, less than a strong reaction to the situation as it developed in the Lebanon. I should like to quote some of the community leaders in the Lebanon. A media release on or about 2 1 May states: 

 Mr N. G. Farah,  President  of the Australian-Lebanese Association of New South Wales, today said that the reports of a statement attributed to  Mr John  Saroff ... did not reflect the true situation that exists between the Lebanese community and the Australian Government. 
The Minister of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Lebanese diplomatic representatives in Australia and the Australian-Lebanese Association have been in close contact throughout the crisis in Lebanon and many measures have been taken to assist the plight of the Lebanese who have been unable to flee Lebanon. 
The criteria for entry into Australia has been extended on compassionate grounds and additional staff added to existing immigration offices surrounding Lebanon and a special immigration office has been established in Damascus with the sole purpose of assisting the Lebanese who have fled to Syria. 
The present situation in Lebanon precludes direct assistance being given to those persons still in Lebanon. 
This is recognised by  Mr Farah.  The release goes on: 
The Immigration Department and its officers are working under most difficult and extreme conditions and are dealing with people who have been subjected to considerable shock and stress and there is no doubt that there are some cases of hardship that are still being encountered. 
The Government has acted in response to particular cases when those cases have been brought to its attention and has shown a willingness to adjust and modify procedures to assist persons for compassionate reasons. 
The Lebanese community is grateful for the assistance already given by the Government and looks forward to further steps being taken by the Government in the future if the need arises and it is practical to do so. 
The South Lebanon Association of Australia wrote to me on 29 September, saying: 
Your statement last week in Parliament and to the Media about the easing of the regulations governing entry to Australia for the Lebanese refugees was received by our executive, as well as by the members of our association, with great appreciation. 
This attitude on your part indicates that you and your Government have a clear and true understanding of the problem. 
We would like to express our people's gratitude and our desire as executive of the South Lebanese Association to fully co-operate with the various government departments in solving any problems that might arise in the process of the settlement and adjustment of the newcomers to Australia. 
We would like to thank your department officials as well, for the help and co-operation they extended to us. 
I have a telegram from the Australian Egyptian Association which states:   we also support your humanitarian arrangements for the Lebanese refugees to come to Australia. 
I also have a letter from the Maronite Archbishop of Australia, Saint Maron 's Cathedral in Sydney, dated 8 October 1976 which states: 
I wish to thank you for the sympathetic compassionate and understanding manner in which you have dealt with the problems of the Australian Lebanese and the effect of the current disturbances in Lebanon on the community living in Australia. 
The community as a whole is not unmindful of your personal efforts in obtaining from Cabinet the wonderful concessions which have been implemented and which have eased the anguish and uncertainty in the minds of the Australian Lebanese community in general. 
They are just some of the letters I have received in relation to this matter. I believe they clearly give the lie to those who would suggest that the Australian Government has been less than compassionate and has not understood and taken action to overcome this problem which, as I have said on a number of occasions before, is of great concern to members on both sides of the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Minister for Administrative Services, who is responsible for both Territories, has advised that policy consideration is being given to this matter in relation to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Concerning Christmas Island, I refer the honourable member to  Senator Withers'  Press statement (No. 20) of 4 August 1976 and his Second Reading speech on the Christmas Island Agreement Bill on 9 September 1976. 
The requirements for the entry of non-Australians are that they should not be restricted term workers, that they should be of sound health and good character and that employment and accommodation should be arranged in advance of their arrival in Australia. 
(a) Australian citizens on the Islands in possession of valid passports are entitled to enter Australia without restriction and no statistics are kept of their arrivals. 
Statistics are not readily available for both Territories in exactly the same form as required. However, the following information is furnished on advice from the respective territory Administration: 
I think it is important that I put the context of the honourable gentleman 's question clearly to the House. The so-called  Handbook of Hate  came about as a response to a request by me to the Commissioner for Community Relations following a statement he made- I believe it was in April of this year- in which he quoted various figures. I asked what was the basis for the figures which he used. He referred to some research upon which he based the figures. I asked him for copies of that research so that I could read the material myself. He took up my request and provided me with a compilation of that research put into the form of a booklet which he called the  Handbook of Hate.  At no stage was there any suggestion that I had asked for a compilation of a handbook but this was the form in which the Commissioner provided me with the information which I had sought. There was no intention at any stage that the material should be published. The material within the handbook, from memory, is readily available publicly. There is nothing classified in the research or the material collected together in this publication which he has entitled the  Handbook of Hate.  Essentially, as I mentioned in the House some time ago, I did not believe that the standard of the booklet or the collection of material was such as to enhance any attitudes against discrimination in the community if it was publicly made available. The Government is quite clear in its opposition to any form of racism. We make that opposition quite clear and we remain committed to opposition to racism. I would like all honourable gentlemen and all ethnic and other newspapers to have that commitment quite clear in their minds. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 I present the annual return of persons granted Australian citizenship during the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In May this year the Government decided that Australia's 1976-77 immigration program should be 70 000 persons. This compared with approximately 52 500 immigrants who arrived in 1975-76. That was by far the smallest intake in the post-war immigration program. The 1976-77 intake will be the second lowest intake. I have seen some reports of statements that this program increase was intended to add to the pool of unemployed. The Government's intention was precisely the reverse. Selected workers in occupations in strong and continuing demand will help in bottleneck situations and by their skills and consumption help to produce increased employment opportunities. 
In estimating a program of 70 000 some consideration was given to refugee-type situations around the world and to the family reunion program. Although a number of the workers within the compassionate group will not have the same qualifications as those who have been selected in the worker program, the Government will provide maximum assistance commensurate with the needs of the refugee-type situations. At the same time it is not, of course, possible to ignore the economic and social absorptive capacity of the Australian community during the present unemployment situation. 1 announced special arrangements for Lebanese migrants on 23 September 1976. (See  Hansard,  23 September 1976, pages 1416-1417.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For both Vietnamese refugees and people from the Lebanon, migrant entry criteria have been varied to permit entry of persons who normally would be ineligible. In the case of Vietnamese and other Indo-Chinese refugees, under the special project announcement in January this year, preference was given to close relatives of Australian residents but there was provision for some refugees who were not relatives of Australian residents. In the case of Lebanese, relatives not ordinarily eligible for migrant entry, brothers and sisters, have been eligible for migrant entry under the relaxed criteria. 
No, the criteria applying at the particular time are explained to potential sponsors. Normal health and character requirements apply although they have been relaxed, where necessary, to permit medical checks to be undertaken in Australia by Lebanese spouses, dependent children and parents of Australian residents. In view of the inclusion of a medical officer in the task force in Nicosia, medical checks can now be completed there quickly to enable issue of migrant entry visas. 
Staff: Inquiry into Tasmanian Railway System (Question No. 1139) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See table hereunder. The figures for the year ended 30 June 1976 will be laid before Parliament shortly in accordance with the requirements of Section 42 (d) of the Citizenship Act 1948. 
No records are kept by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs which would enable it to determine the numbers of persons granted citizenship in each of the ethnic groups who are enrolled in the various electoral divisions. 
-The first matter relates to the evidence supplied to the inquiry. I will look at the case and see whether the evidence can be made available. The second matter related to the cost-benefit analysis. Is that the one performed by Professor Wilson? 
I think it is the study that was commissioned to be handled by Professor Wilson. We have a preliminary report from the Professor. It is not finalised yet. As soon as it is finalised I will make a decision on whether it should be published. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Government over an extended period has given special consideration to people resident in the Lebanon who have relatives in Australia. My latest announcement in relation to this matter was a statement in the House on 23 September in which I said that a special task force was being sent to Nicosia, that relaxed criteria would apply in relation to the relatives of Lebanese residents in Australia, that the task force would be in operation for 3 months and that the situation would be reassessed at that stage. That statement stands. Obviously when special arrangements apply they cannot apply indefinitely. The arrangements were made to cover a specific situation that has existed and, unfortunately, to some extent still exists in the Lebanon. We have to reassess that situation from time to time and I am not going to speculate on the result of that reassessment. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a review of the activities of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (6) The function of liaison officers is to carry out checking of applicants for migration to Australia. A primary function is the screening out of extremists whose entry would be counter to Australia's interests, particularly those who may have a propensity towards violence in the pursuit of their aims. This latter category would include terrorists of all shades of opinion. It is not the practice to provide details on the number of liaison officers or their location abroad. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)872,(b)470. 
(a)115,(b)7. 
499. 
(a) 68, (b) 90, (c) 128, (d) 106, (e) 66, (f) 22, (g) 4, (h)7,(i)8. 
The level of acting duty prevailing in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs results from the need to retain vacant positions in Canberra and State Branches into which officers returning from service overseas can be absorbed at their substantive classifications. 
Reducing establishments overseas and in Australia and the structural rearrangements which have taken place affecting Immigration functions and staffing over recent years, have also been contributing factors. 
The above figures were effective as at 31 August 1976. They include officers who hold positions (with exempt conditions) with the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications and officers working with the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
Liaison Officers in Migration Posts  (Question No. 973) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance with Article 1 (2) of the general provisions of the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees adopted on 28 July 1951, the term refugee' applies to any person who 'owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to  it ' 
Under the Convention, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is charged with the task of supervising international conventions providing for the protection of refugees. (2 (a) I understand that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees does not recognise displaced Lebanese as coming within Article 1 (2) of the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, 
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has accorded refugee status to some Chileans outside Chile, presumably because their situation conforms with the terms of Article 1 (2). 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has no mandate to so describe a person or a class of persons. Such a designation would not necessarily confer advantage in the matter of entry to Australia. Normally, persons accorded UNHCR refugee status are eligible to be considered for entry but equally so are people from refugee-type situations who have not been recognised by the UNHCR. Each situation is considered on its merits. 
Each group is entitled to humanitarian consideration. Australia has accepted people from all three situations. 
The acceptance of people from refugee or quasirefugee situations is governed by principles of humanity, equity and compassion and by the Australian people's economic, social and cultural capacity to successfully accept and integrate such migrants. 
See (3). 
An accurate figure is not available but it is estimated that approximately 130 Chilean nationals are in Australia illegally. 
It will not be possible to ascertain the reasons these people left Chile until such time as they are located and interviewed. 
There is no evidence to suggest that those persons mentioned in (7) above would be subjected to persecution if returned to Chile. 
No. 
The Government's attitude to applications from Chileans is the same as towards all other applications. Normal change of status policy would apply. 
Yes. Deportation orders have been signed against 30 Chilean nationals illegally resident in Australia. Other cases are under consideration. 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information dates from 1 968: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no record of expectant alien women seeking visitors' visas in order that their confinements should take place in Australia and there is no provision within visitor policy for applications to be approved if they were made for that purpose. Children have, however, been born in Australia to women- both British and alien- who were granted visitor entry for other purposes. 
and (3) No statistics have been maintained. 
I seek leave to make a very brief statement in relation to Lebanese migration. 
No. I am responding to the motion. 
Motion (by  Mr Innes)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
May I seek leave to make a statement in response to the statement by the honourable member for Fremantle? 
In all the circumstances, I think it would be wise if the sitting were suspended until after lunch. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Acting upon information which came to my Department, visits were made to communes which were occupied by people who described themselves as 'The Children of God '. The communes are present in each of the States and the Territories. I am not sure of the actual number of communes which exist at present. I understand that no prohibited migrants were apprehended during the visits. Investigations were made into the present status of some people in the communes. They were found to hold valid visitor visas. The Department receives information from a number of sources in relation to people who are alleged to be prohibited migrants and it has a duty to investigate those claims. This was one such investigation. I do not believe that any civil liberties were infringed in any sense. I am not aware of any newspaper men being present except for a report I received that in one particular instance- I think it was at a commune in Western Australia- one newspaper man was present. I do not think I have anything to add to that. 
I am not sure of the number of officers involved and I have not received any estimate of the cost. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were no grounds for refusing a visa to  Mr Dayan. 
No. Amongst other visitors from the Middle East the Prime Minister of Bahrain was a guest of the Government from 19 to 25 September and King Hussein of Jordan paid a State Visit last March. It will be recalled that the communique issued at the conclusion of the latter visit stated,  inter aiia-  Both sides were agreed on the urgent need for the implementation of Resolutions 242 ( 1967) and 338 (1973) of the United Nations Security Council, ' i.e. 
Both side were agreed on the need for any settlement to take account of the legitmate rights of the Palestinian people, and of the right of all states in the area to exist within secure and recognised boundaries'. 
For the present, the considerations set out in my reply to the honourable member's Question No. 666 remain valid. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Based on the 1971 Census figures and allowing for subsequent arrivals and natural increase as a result of birth of children in Australia it is estimated that there were about 53 000 people of Lebanese descent in this country as at 30 January 1976. 
Census statistics are the only source of information regarding internal population movement. As at 30 June 1971, 79 per cent of Lebanese born people in Australia resided in New South Wales. 
As at 30 June 1971, 97 per cent of the Lebanese population of New South Wales lived in the metropolitan area. 
No statistics are available in respect of the number of Lebanese people living in the Electoral Division of St George. 
1224 persons were included in migrant visas granted to Lebanese people at Australian posts in the Middle East and adjacent countries during the period 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1976. 
As a result of the adverse conditions and limited staff available in Beirut between 1 January 1976, and 28 March 1976, when operations in the Lebanon were suspended, no statistical records were maintained of applications received from Lebanese people during that period. From 1 April 1976 to 30 June 1976, applications covering 3450 persons were received by other posts in the Middle East and adjacent countries. Separate figures relating to applications outside normal policy are not maintained. 
Details of applications approved outside normal policy requirements are not maintained. During the period 1 January 1976, to 30 June 1976, visas were granted to 1224 Lebanese people at Australian posts in the Middle East and adjacent countries. A large number of these would have received special consideration outside policy on compassionate grounds. 
Aged Patients in Nursing Homes (Question No. 1217) 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill and the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of Lebanese migrants who have arrived in Australia since hostilities commenced in Lebanon are as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Delegation to Habitat: The United Nations Conference on Human Settlements held in Vancouver during the period 31 May to 11 June 1976, together with the official United Nations report on that conference. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these reports have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and in the Parliamentary Library. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The Government has reviewed the arrangements with respect to Lebanese migration to Australia. I will be announcing the results of that review very shortly. 
Information in the precise terms sought by the honourable member is not available from records and statistics kept in the Department. A complete and comprehensive answer to Question 974 would require exhaustive research both in Australia and overseas and I do not consider that the deployment of scarce staff resources for this purpose could be justified. However, I am able to provide the following information: 
In respect to parts 1, 2, 3 and 5 the following table is provided: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) According to currently available statistics there are- 
210 Government-sponsored students; and 
366 private students from Thailand studying in Australia 
Of these it is expected that- 
135 Government-sponsored; and 
b ) 59 private students will complete their studies in 1 976. 
Students from Vietnam and Cambodia  (Question No. 1364) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistical information is not available in the form requested by the honourable member. My Department is looking at available statistical data, in conjunction with the Australian Bureau of Statistics, to see whether some estimates, as requested, can be produced. This project will take some time to complete and I shall write to the honourable member in due course to inform him of any results produced. 
Pursuant to section 46 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 I present the first annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for the year ended 30 June 1976. 1 seek leave to make a statement relating to that report. 
by leave- I tabled this morning the first annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations. I should point out that the views expressed in the report are those of the Commissioner for Community Relations and are not necessarily endorsed by the Government. One particular matter to which I would like to refer relates to the assertion that there is a widespread breach of our international obligations under the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. That particular assertion is in my view unsubstantiated and incorrect. In the interests of Australia's well-earned reputation for compliance with international treaty obligations the assertion must be corrected. Over 3 million migrants have settled in Australia over the past 30 years. The standards of tolerance and harmony we all desire will be achieved not by a magnification of our shortcomings but by a factual recognition of deficiencies, a realistic appreciation of achievements and a determined commitment to improvement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's policy towards the entry of refugees is governed by its obligations as a party to the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees and its acknowledgement that as a member of the international community it must accept a share of responsibility in refugee and quasi-refugee situations which often involve personal danger and loss of human dignity, basic rights and means of livelihood. 
In accord with this approach the Government is prepared to do what it can to facilitate the resettlement of those refugees who can be integrated into the Australian community as well as others who though not in a strict sense refugees have been displaced and are the victims of severe privation. 
The extent to which Australia can participate in these types of projects must allow for special arrangements to be made to interview applicants and must take into account the ability of any particular group of refugees or displaced persons to integrate into the community. Factors to be considered in this regard go well beyond the grant of assisted passages to Australia and include placement in employment in Australia which is significantly difficult at present and an assessment of the degree of reliance which any group may have on continuing social welfare payments and services. 
Any proposal to admit refugees must be dealt with on a global basis and does not permit specific groups to be dealt with in isolation to the exclusion of other groups who may be seen as eligible to benefit from Australia's refugee policy. The essential aim, therefore, is to offer optimum assistance and avoid the intrusion of self-defeating factors such as poor employment prospects or the denial of employment opportunities which would otherwise be available to persons already in Australia. 
The procedures adopted for the selection and movement of refugees and displaced persons whose entry has been approved in principle ensure that the standard migrant criteria are not imposed as this could effectively deny to the persons concerned the resettlement opportunities which the Government has offered. Health and character standards are insisted on but allowance is made for the parlous situation in which the refugees find themselves and their inability to comply strictly with rules related to occupational skills, etc. 
The criteria used to determine eligibility for entry to Australia as refugees allow for the chances of resettlement in the country in which the refugees find themselves, the degree of support which would be forthcoming in that country, alternative opportunities for resettlement elsewhere more readily on the basis of language or closer association and Australia 's ability to integrate the refugees at any given dme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) A dual wage structure exists on Christmas Island because of a need to attract people from different labour markets. There are two main labour market sources from which the Christmas Island Administration and the British Phosphate Commissioners draw their employees working on the Island: 
Mainland Australia or areas with similar workforces and economies; 
South East Asian areas in close proximity to Christmas Island (e.g. Singapore and Malaysia) or Christmas Island itself. 
Employees from both Australia and Malaysia/Singapore are paid wages which will attract them to the Island. As a result, positions on the Island are generally divided into two categories-' Mainland-based' and 'Regionally-engaged'. Regionally-engaged' positions require qualifications and skills which can be readily found in recruits from Christmas Island or neighbouring areas. 'Mainland-based' positions are those which, because of the skills and qualifications they require, are normally filled with recruits from Australia pr a similar country. 
The lowest cash wage paid to an employee on Christmas Island was $28.70 per week up until 20 October 1976. Since then there have been two separate increases granted in respect of 'Regionally engaged' employees on Christmas Island. A cost of living increase of 5.7 per cent retrospective to 1 October 1976, was recently granted by the employers and a 5 per cent 'across the board' increase in wages, effective from 1 August 1976 was granted in an interim decision by the Arbitrator for Christmas Island. Wages are supplemented by marriage and child allowances. In addition free education, housing, electricity, water and other municipal-type services, transport amenities, medical and hospital treatment, and dental and optical services are provided. Furthermore, no rates, income tax or sales tax are levied. The only indirect tax is on non-Australian-made alcoholic beverages. 
No. The eventual exhaustion ofthe phosphate deposits on Christmas Island makes it unrealistic to operate a permanent workforce on the Island. Accordingly, some considerable time ago, a policy of offering three year terms of engagement to Regionally-engaged workers was introduced to enable them to retain affiliations with their place of recruitment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In April 1975 there were in Australia 
327 Government-sponsored students from Vietnam and 69 Government-sponsored students from Cambodia; and 
129 private students from Vietnam and 27 private students from Cambodia. 
My Department has been informed by the Department of Education that living allowances were provided from the special fund during 1975 to 134 students, amounting to $ 1 9 1 , 59 1 . In 1 976 allowances were paid to 87 students and to the end of October these amounted to $ 104,055. It is estimated that payments will amount to$ 1 30,069 for the full calendaryear 1976. 
32. 
Of the students referred to in part ( 1 ) above, 203 have been granted resident status in Australia and applications for resident status for an additional 58 are currently under consideration. A further 151 are continuing their studies and hold temporary entry permits. The individual situation of the remaining 140 students is not currently known, but none of them has been required to leave Australia and any student who has left would have done so from choice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present members of the Australian Population and Immigration Council are: 
Hon. M. J. R. MacKellar, M.P., Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Chairman 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The 1976 statistics given for permanent arrivals showing last country of residence as Lebanon were preliminary figures issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Final figures are now available for the period January to June 1976. These are: 
January, 82; February, 196; March, 164; April, 104; May 124 (c.f. 123 preliminary); June, 164 (c.f. 167 preliminary). 
The statistics for July (325 ), August (256) and September (418) were also based on incomplete data and final figures are not yet available. Accordingly 834 persons arrived in the period between January and June 1976 and this figure together with the preliminary statistics until September 1976 gives a total of 1833. 
Yes. Subsequently preliminary figures for arrivals for October 1976 have been received. They show that 767 persons from the Lebanon arrived in October. 
Yes. But it needs to be recognised that the 1975 arrival figures were affected by: the introduction of occupational requirements in October 1974, problems associated with consideration and processing of applications during 1975 due to the conditions in the Lebanon. 
No. Preliminary figures indicate arrivals to the end of October 1976 to be 2600. If arrivals at the present rate of some 800 per month continue, the total for 1976 will be well in excess of the 1 974 figure. 
) It is correct that not all persons granted visas decide to migrate and it is possible that, if conditions remain stable in the Lebanon, some persons granted visas may decide not to migrate. The actual issue of visas, however, is specific evidence of the Government's willingness to admit the persons concerned to Australia. Whether the persons approved actually travel is a decision for them but the opportunity has been offered and can be availed of, if desired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been allegations concerning attacks on ethnic communities in broadcasts on some radio programmes. Some of the allegations have related to radio broadcasts in Melbourne. However, it is not clear which allegations are referred to and the question is not sufficiently specific to enable a definite reply to be given. 
Melbourne stations which have been mentioned in this connection at one time or another have been 3EA, 3ZZ and 3CR. 
As the honourable member will be aware, 3EA is an 'ethnic' broadcasting station operated at present under the control of the Department of Post and Telecommunications. 3ZZ is an 'access' station operated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission; 3CR is a 'community' station operated by the Community Radio Federation Ltd. 
The Government believes that ethnic broadcasting should be a means of developing harmony and understanding between and within ethnic communities. Accordingly, in its decision of 9 September 1976, to place ethnic broadcasting on a permanent basis, it adopted a set of criteria for the new service, which included: 
Ethnic broadcasting should: assist in promoting mutual understanding and harmony between and within ethnic groups and between ethnic groups and the English-speaking community; avoid political partisanship; ' 
I understand that none of the three stations previously mentioned automatically prepares transcripts of programmes, but all three tape-record their programmes as they are broadcast. In response to specific requests, tapes of particular programmes broadcast on 3EA have been provided in the past. The ABC is able to do the same for 3ZZ. The licencees of 3CR are under no obligation to supply tapes. 
If the Honourable Member cares to provide details of the allegations to which he refers and the times, dates and stations concerned, they will certainly then be investigated by the appropriate authority. 
Immigration Staff at Overseas Posts (Question No.  1550) 

 Mr E. G. Whitlam Asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
Why is it taking him so long to answer Question No. 884 which I placed on notice on 17 August 1976 when his predecessor was able to give me an answer on 27 March 1969  (Hansard,  page 1048) to the similar question I placed on notice on 25 February 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Question 884 relates to staff at overseas posts. 
In 1 969 at most posts locally engaged staff were controlled by the Department of Immigration and it was a relatively simply task to provide an up-to-date report on numbers employed. 
In 1974, locally engaged staff were transferred to the establishment of the Department of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the Prime Minister's direction on the co-ordination of Australian diplomatic and Consular arrangements overseas. 
Whilst the Department of Foreign Affairs continues to receive monthly returns of staff employed at its posts, these reflect total numbers employed without any split-up into staff employed on immigration or other specific activities. The latest definitive figures available from the Department of Foreign Affairs are from the detailed annual staff returns showing persons employed in various functions at each base as at 30 June 1976. 
Delay in replying has arisen from endeavours to provide the most up-to-date situation both for Australia-based and locally engaged staff but it has not been possible to obtain figures for locally engaged staff from Foreign Affairs later than as at 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my press release of 19 November I said that if people want to settle in Australia, they must apply through the proper channels. 
I am not aware of any such reaction. 
The criteria that apply to applicants for permanent or temporary entry do not discriminate on the grounds of nationality or ethnic origin. The amount of checking required to establish the bona fides of applicants varies from country to country. The political beliefs of applicants do not in themselves constitute disqualification unless they are associated with support for, or participation in, extremism or terrorist activity. 
Assistance by Foreign Governments for Darwin after Cyclone Tracy (Question No. 1660) 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) 8614 applications were lodged under the Amnesty of which 7228 were approved up to 26. 1 1 .76. 
11 applications have been refused, 2 on medical grounds and 9 on character grounds. Some 200 applicants have been regarded as ineligible under the Amnesty. These relate principally to people admitted as private students and who are soil engaged in studies. The question of the student's continued stay will be considered at a later date in accordance with private student policy which provides that applications for resident status may be considered if and when they have successfully completed their courses of study. 
The attached schedule contains details of applications received by nationality. 
The latest statistics available indicate that: as at 31 December 1975 an estimated 39 500 prohibited immigrants were in Australia, as at 31 August 1976 an estimated 54000 prohibited immigrants were in Australia. 
The increase largely arises from overstayed visitors. Possibilities of more effective controls are being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is available from 1 January 1976 to 3 1 October 1976. The figures for July onwards are preliminary figures only. The quarterly figures only are available prior to 1 January 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four of the 30 Chileans against whom deportation orders were issued have been apprehended. 
One of the four has been deported and two others were allowed to depart voluntarily. The fourth man has been permitted to remain in Australia for 6 months. 
It is known that another two of the 30 Chileans have left Australia under their own arrangements. 
Yes. Inquiries to establish their whereabouts are continuing. 
and (4) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It would not be in the interests of the persons concerned to release this information. 
The Chileans entered Australia between 1 October 1973 and 30 June 1976. 
) Those still in Australia are prohibited immigrants and their deportation was ordered on that basis. 
Children of God: Raid on Communes  (Question No. 1870) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
51 immigration officers visited premises occupied by the Children of God on 29 November 1 976. 
The visits were carried out as a routine immigration activity by officers in the normal course of their duties and no separate costing is therefore available. 
141 persons were spoken to, of whom approximately 70 were interviewed to a greater or lesser extent concerning their immigration status. 
17 addresses were visited located in all capital cities except Hobart. 
Unknown. The person concerned was identified as a New Zealand citizen working for an Australian newspaper. 
The broad principles of the visits had my approval. Administrative details were formulated within that approval by my Department in the usual manner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Further to my reply made in the interim to this question, I am now able to provide the following information: 
1 ) The latest available figures are those from the Census of 1971. They indicate that the number of people in each of the 10 largest ethnic groups (as indicated by birthplace) was as follows: 
Yes, I am aware of newspaper reports to the effect that my Department is suggesting an increase in the immigration intake to 100 000 in the next year. There is no truth in the reports. At this stage the Department is working on its forward estimates. These, of course, will be discussed with other relevant departments and with the Australian Population and Immigration Council before a submission is put to Cabinet. I will not anticipate what the intake involved will be or what the Cabinet response will be. 
For the information of honourable members I present a document entitled 'Australia's Population': A Summary of the First Report of the National Population Inquiry. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I am very pleased that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the spokesman for the Opposition on immigration and ethnic affairs, has once again brought the plight of Lebanese people to the attention of the House. Obviously, as he has said, it is a most important matter. He insists upon calling them refugees. In a very real sense they are, except, if one has to be precise, they do not come within the definition of refugees as accepted by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. I am quite prepared to discuss the matter in this light because, as I have said on numerous occasions and a great number of people have said on numerous occasions, these people have suffered a great deal in the country of their birth or home. For purposes of entry to Australia, Australia has treated people disadvantaged by the situation in the Lebanon as quasi-refugees. I mention this because we should look at this entire problem of refugees or quasi-refugees not in relation only to one point in the world but in relation to the entire refugee or quasi-refugee situation which exists. It is rather interesting that the Opposition has understandably placed great emphasis on the Lebanese situation- a situation which the Government has recognised consistently and has done something about- but not once has the spokesman for the Opposition mentioned the plight of Indo-Chinese refugees who, at this stage, are in parlous circumstances in refugee camps in Thailand and Malaysia. 
I did. The selective approach to the problems of disadvantaged peoples overseas which the Opposition has exemplified so far is rather unusual. The spokesman for the Opposition has accused the Government of all sorts of dereliction of duty. I believe one should place on record what has occurred. Keep in mind that any immigration program, and particularly any program in relation to refugee or quasi-refugee resettlement, must take into account the full global situation. We have sought to do that As a result of the special measures taken to facilitate the reunion of Lebanese people with close relatives in Australia,  prima facie  acceptable nominations received prior to 31 December 1976 covered 31071 people- including 4000 community list nominees- of whom 18 149 lodged formal applications at our overseas posts during the period 1 July 1976 to 28 February 1977. The nominations accepted under the relaxed criteria lapsed if the nominees had not personally applied for migration at our overseas posts before 28 February 1977. 
The Opposition has made great play of the suggestion that allegedly we have not responded to points put up to us by the Lebanese community. That is sheer nonsense. In fact I have just mentioned that the people had to lodge applications before 28 February. Originally the date was 31 January, but in response to representations by the Lebanese people this date was set forward to 28 February. 
During the period 1 January 1976 to 25 February 1977 overseas posts issued visas covering 9789 Lebanese people of whom 5865 had arrived in Australia by 31 January 1977. It is possible that the number of arrivals is higher than that because we judge the arrivals by what people write on their arrival card as their last place of residence. Many Lebanese people may have written Cyprus as the country of last residence because that is the country from which they came to Australia. Over 3000 have shown Cyprus as their last place of residence. This total is in addition to the 5300 people who in the last 7 months have given Lebanon as their last place of residence. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has castigated the Government for not doing as well as other nations in relation to acceptance of the Lebanese. In the past he has mentioned particularly Canada. During the whole of 1976, 7161 Lebanese arrived in Canada. The numbers have now dropped off, but I believe this is to be welcomed simply because it reflects a settling of the situation in the Lebanon. 
If one looks at the volume of applications and nominations one can see that it was inevitable that some delays would have occurred in respect of the processing of applications and the interviewing of people who wished to come to Australia. It is a fact that the date for the consideration of applications was stretched further ahead because of the limitations of available staff. In the first instance the large volume of nominations lodged by relatives in Australia had to be checked in respect of things such as the availability of accommodation before they were forwarded to Nicosia. At the same time the rush of nominations in Nicosia rose to 1000 people a day. Obviously this would have caused delay in the treatment of applications. 
The number of applications built up quite dramatically during the time that the task force was accepting nominations in Nicosia. So too did the number of applications processed and the numbers of people arriving in Australia. There were some delays. These delays quite legitimately resulted from medical queries. Often there were difficulties in contacting applicants, many of whom returned to the Lebanon to await the issue of visas. There were a great number of problems in respect of the identification of applicants. I am very glad that the Opposition spokesman has paid a tribute to the work done by the officers of my Department. I also have visited the posts overseas, particularly the post in Nicosia, and I have seen at first hand just how hard these people work, the long hours that they work and the extreme dedication that they show. I am very pleased that the honourable member for Melbourne at least has paid a tribute to those officers. 
We must understand the situation of the sponsors of Lebanese migrants and the sponsored when they arrive in Australia. Before nominations were accepted from people in Australia, the Lebanese community, as a result of discussions I had with them, accepted responsibility for the post arrival resettlement of their relatives. This responsibility applied particularly in respect of employment placement, accommodation and initial financial support. Throughout the whole of this exercise the efforts of some people- I emphasise the words 'some people'- within the Lebanese community made things a bit more difficult than otherwise they would have been. There were numerous instances of deception relating to identity, substitution and the withholding of documents. Also, false statements were made in an endeavour to mislead officials. I guess that this action is understandable in a case where people are seeking to bring relatives to Australia and see this as a method of achieving their aim. But it did make the process of identification and medical and character checking that much more difficult. It led to some delay. I am hopeful that the Opposition will not say that we should relax the medical and character checks which, after all, are instituted to protect the Australian community as well as the individual. 
Unfortunately  Mr Abdulla,  an accredited courier for the South Lebanese Association in Sydney, was not only found to have urged nominees to mislay documents to confuse identity but also he deliberately deceived our officials both in Sydney and Nicosia in respect of his own sister and her family. Here is a man who was sent by an association to assist people to come to Australia, yet we found that he was undertaking these activities. I mention this fact to show the difficulties under which our officers overseas were working. These officers had to deal with people who were coming forward to apply for entry to Australia at the rate of up to 1000 a day. 
The honourable member for Melbourne said that he wrote to me in relation to suggestions put forward by the Lebanese community. He said he has not received a reply from me. 
Not even an acknowledgement, he says. Unfortunately he probably does not open his mail. I have information which shows that I sent him an acknowledgement some time ago. I do not know whether he has received it. But if he checks back through his mail probably he will find it. 
Of course he has been overseas on one of his trips, and that is fair enough. One of the suggestions of the Lebanese community put forward by the honourable member as a means of helping to alleviate the problems that remain is the reopening of our embassy in Beirut. At all times we have said that we would reopen the embassy in Beirut as soon as this step was feasible. I am glad to be able to tell the honourable member that we are looking at reopening the embassy in Beirut possibly in May of this year. The first people who will be going into that embassy will, of course, be the 
Immigration officials as well as some of the Foreign Affairs personnel. 
The honourable member has made mention of the refusal of applications on medical grounds. I can assure him and the Lebanese community as a whole that there is no truth in the statement that medical assessments have been altered in some way and that tougher criteria are being employed. There was an understanding and an undertaking when particular operations were commenced in September of last year whereby some people nominated by groups within the Lebanese community and were placed in category A could travel to Australia and would be assessed on medical grounds once they arrived here. But this arrangement was finalised at the end of September last year. Since that time there has been a requirement that all people who are nominated to come to Australia should be assessed in terms of health and character clearances before they leave to come to Australia. This was done because we found a great number of medical problems presenting themselves. The Opposition has very cleverly refrained at all times from saying how many people we should accept. Should we accept everyone who nominates? Should we have accepted the 3 1 000 people who made applications? Not once has the Opposition said how many we should have taken. 
In this matter we have relaxed the normal entry criteria in relation to relationships, and a great number of people have come to Australia and are still coming to Australia as a result of the Government's initiatives. Obviously in any refugee situation or quasi-refugee situation one would like to do more, but it is simply not possible. The limits have to be drawn somewhere. The honourable member made great play about my not understanding the question of extended family as evidenced by the Lebanese. That is nonsense. I well understand the feeling of extended family as evidenced by the Lebanese and other groups of people. That is why the relationships were limited to the ones which have been promulgated. If we had extended those relationships the numbers eligible to come would have escalated markedly. We know that most of these people were coming to Sydney, where of course job opportunities at the moment are fairly limited and the position of these people would be extremely parlous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 Mr INNES (Melbourne)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
As the honourable member interjects that he has five more to go, I think it would be appropriate if I asked him to put the question on notice. 
For the information of honourable members I present a paper entitled:  Immigration Policies and Australia's Population.  I seek leave to make a statement. 
-As the Leader of the Opposition would know, responsibility for the Commonwealth Police is vested in my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services. I did note the matter to which he alluded. I was disturbed by it. I have written to my colleague and suitable arrangements will be made in future. 
I have noticed an increasing public debate in relation to the level of immigration intake. As honourable members know, last week I tabled in this House a Green Paper on Australia's immigration and population policies. That Green Paper, just to reiterate briefly, proposes various alternatives. It does not make any recommendations. The objective is to stimulate wide public debate in relation to alternative policies. I have noticed that employer groups have suggested that there may be a marked lack of skilled tradesmen available not only at present but certainly also in the future and that one way of overcoming this deficiency, in addition to having such people trained in Australia, would be to recruit them overseas. 
I know that there is a wide divergence of public opinion in relation to the intake of migrants. Some people would suggest that in fact it is highly inflationary to bring more migrants to Australia: others would suggest that in fact what the economy needs is the stimulus provided by an increased migrant inflow, and I believe that that is what the honourable member is suggesting. The annual intake is a matter for Cabinet discussion. I shall be putting a submission to the Cabinet in the coming months. Of course I should not like to pre-empt- in fact I could not pre-empt- the Cabinet decision. However, I am aware of the discussion taking place in the community. I am aware of the very strong views that many migrants hold in relation to family reunion. I shall certainly take on board the suggestions made by the honourable member and other honourable members in relation to the question of the migrant intake. 
As honourable members would know, the East Timorese evacuees in Portugal went there following the events in East Timor. They all have, as I am informed, Portugese passports and therefore do not come within the strict definition of 'refugees'. But of course they can be regarded, as they are, as evacuees. The Government has had a migration officer in Portugal for some weeks now and has decided that the following groups of evacuees in Portugal can be accepted in future: First, those immediate family members of Australian residents, that is, the parents, spouses, dependent children and fiances; secondly, brothers and sisters of Australian residents, and in considering brothers and sisters occupational criteria will not be applied; and, thirdly, all those other evacuees who are able to meet the normal occupational criteria. All these people will of course be subject to the normal health and character checks. 
I might say that as at 17 March some 560 East Timorese evacuees in Portugal had applied for movement to Australia. I am informed that about 47 have already been issued with visas and another 12 visas have been approved. There is a difficulty with the East Timorese evacuees in Portugal because they have been found to be suffering from various medical disabilities, in particular tuberculosis and malaria. As honourable members would know, a number of these people wish to travel to Darwin. The anopheles mosquito is present in the Darwin area. Health considerations in relation to this fact must be taken very carefully into account. But the Government has closely considered the problem. These measures are designed to overcome many of the disturbed family situations which at present exist in Australia. I hope the measures will have the support of the entire House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 15 February 1977, 30 persons had travelled under the special arrangements made after the earthquakes in 1 976 in the Friuli region 
Visas had been issued to an additional 6 persons who have not yet completed their travel arrangements and applications covering an additional 32 persons are under consideration. People in the latter group have not indicated an interest in completing travel arrangements urgently as they were not seriously affected by the earthquakes and their applications will be determined after completion of the usual migrant formalities overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Separate figures on the number of former residents of Lebanon applying for and being granted visas at posts outside Lebanon during the period January 1976 to March 1 976 are not available. Some information on visas issued from April 1976 to February 1977 is available and is shown in the table following. The information from June 1976 to February 1 977 is shown in the following table for those posts which maintain separate details of the Lebanese caseload. Lebanese figures are only recorded separately by posts at which the Lebanese element of the caseload is significant. The information sought is not available for Baghdad, Jeddah, or Tel Aviv. 
Applications received from and Visas issued to persons normally resident in Lebanon seeking admission for residence in 1976 and 1977 by months in Ankara, Athens, Cairo, Damascus, Nicosia. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that agreement has been reached with the Indonesian Government concerning arrangements for the reunion of East Timorese in Australia and their close relatives from Timor. In a joint communique issued at the conclusion of the visit to Indonesia in October 1976, the Prime Minister and  President  Soeharto announced that they had agreed that Australian and Indonesian officials should meet to resolve the problems of the East Timorese evacuees who came to Australia without their families. Following discussions in Jakarta, the Indonesian Government has agreed, in principle, to a visit to East Timor by a team of Australian officials to interview Timorese who are eligible for entry and have been nominated by relatives in Australia. The Australian Government has agreed in principle to a visit to Australia by an Indonesian team to consider applications by any Timorese who wish to be reunited in East Timor with their families. The Australian Government has very much in mind the distress occasioned by the separation of families and arrangements are proceeding for the visit to East Timor to take place as early as circumstances permit. 
Any Australian immigration action in East Timor requires the co-operation of Indonesian authorities to locate and assemble nominees for migration procedures. It is necessary, therefore, to provide relevant details of nominees to the Indonesian authorities. The information will be provided to the Indonesian authorities only with the agreement of the sponsors. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is compiling a list of sponsored nominees acceptable under family reunion policy. The acceptable categories are: spouses, minor dependent children and parents of Australian residents, relatives who have employment skills and experience recognised and in demand in Australia. 
It is necessary to set a closing date for receipt of nominations so that the operation can proceed as quickly as possible. Nominations received by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs up to close of business on 22 April 1977 will be considered in this operation. 
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is seeking from sponsors details of the disposition of their families so that all relevant factors may be considered in assessing the eligibility of their nominees for entry to Australia. In accordance with normal immigration procedures, this information is for internal departmental use only and is being obtained on a form used, where required, in cases involving family reunion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Statistics with respect to electoral divisions are not maintained. 
Assistance to the Aged: Budget Outlays (Question No. SOO) 
in reply- In closing the debate on the consideration of the Green Paper I say first how much I appreciate the contribution of honourable members on both sides of the House in putting forward their views on what I regard as probably the most significant area of discussion that we, as legislators, can be looking for in terms of Australia's future population- not just in the next couple of years but also in the year 2000 and beyond. I think it is fairly significant that this is the first Green Paper on Australia's immigration policies and population ever presented in the Federal Parliament. Some people- both inside and outside this House- have misconstrued the purpose of the Green Paper. They have not realised that it does not postulate Government policy but, in fact, is designed to stimulate discussion. I hope that this discussion will take place in the broadest sense throughout the Australian community. I think it is significant that so far in this debate 21 members of the House of Representatives have spoken. That is a fair proportion of the total membership of this House. I do not have the figures but I would believe that that is the highest number of members who have contributed to a single debate on this subject, at least in my memory. 
The range of contributions has reflected the range of opinions that people have in relation to the propositions raised in the Green Paper. What the Green Paper does in essence- what it is designed to do and, I believe, what it achieves- is to draw together a number of the strands which impinge upon the difficulties and objectives which result in formulation of Government policy. It is easy to think about immigration policy in relation to employment or unemployment, population, demographic distribution and a whole host of other things, but this is the first time it has brought these aspects together in a single document where the language is, I believe, easily understood and where the length of the document is not so great as to deter people from reading it. I am very pleased that the debate has been conducted largely in a bipartisan fashion. It was a significant feature of earlier times that the immigration policies of previous governments were conducted largely in a bipartisan fashion. Unfortunately, in my view, that situation changed in recent years but hopefully the debate today has restored some of the objectivity and some of the bipartisan nature of previous approaches towards immigration policy. 
What we are all talking about is the future population of Australia, how it is composed, where it comes from, its distribution and the nature of the society which comes from it. I believe the response to the Green Paper and the large number of speakers is a very positive indication of the concern within this House about these significant questions. I hope that the length of the debate in the House and the nature of the contributions will stimulate both individuals and organisations in the community at large to contribute their views to the Government in relation to the matters raised by the Green Paper. To this end I would like to mention at this stage that in the near future we will be advertising right throughout Australia to encourage groups and individuals to get hold of the Green Paper, to read and consider it and then to send to my Department their views in relation to the various alternatives raised. 
Again I say that I am pleased that the debate to a great extent was outside the normal narrow confines of party political exchanges in this House. I think that a common feature has been the understanding, realisation and expression of support for the marked changes which have occurred in Australia particularly as a result of the consistent large scale post-war immigration program. I believe that everybody has appreciated the marked cultural changes which have taken place in this country, but not only cultural changes are involved. We would be a much lesser nation today without the contribution of the 3.3 million people from overseas, and of course their descendants. 
I would like briefly to mention some of the aspects of the Green Paper which I believe need emphasis at this stage. I refer particularly to demographic trends. There has been a consistent downward trend in Australia's fertility rates. There has been a downward trend in population growth particularly since 1971. This, if continued, indicates that the population in Australia in the year 2000 will be nothing like the 20 million or more which was confidently predicted only a few years ago. The change consists of a pronounced slowing of natural increase and low net and gross immigration rates. In reiteration, the arrivals in 1975-76 were the lowest for 30 years. Under present circumstances, taking into account the fertility patterns which are emerging in Australia, immigration is likely to be the only controllable variable in the population growth rate. I know that some honourable members during the debate talked about the need for pronatalist population policies. I will deal with that a little later. On the evidence that is before us at the moment the immigration variable is the only controllable variable that is available to governments in terms of population policies. In relation to this an immigration variable is significant in terms of placement of people as well as numbers. 
The net reproduction rate in Australia, as in most other developed countries, is around or just below replacement level in the long term. It is continuing to fall. This means that although population will not be stationary because of past high levels of fertility and high inputs of young immigrants we have produced at the moment an age structure with a high proportion of young in child bearing ages. But the effects of demographic changes in the future will be most important. Perhaps the most significant of all is that any reversal in declining fertility or 2-child families in Australia is unlikely. I know there is a group within the Australian population which suggests that this change may come about. There is no evidence to suggest that the declining fertility or the trend for a 2-child family in Australia will, in fact, be reversed. The evidence suggests that fertility will decline even further. Despite the lower average age at marriage and the higher proportion of people actually being married, the fact is that no baby boom is expected. Recent trends in natural increase confirm that the NPI projections outlined in the Green Paper will be sustained. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in his contribution to the debate cast some doubt as to the authority and the accuracy of the projections contained in the Borrie Committee report. I can understand this because the fact is that when the honourable gentleman was a Minister in the previous Government, the Borrie Committee report laid to rest some of the assumptions upon which he and his department were working in the development of their growth centre policy. On the evidence available so far there is no real indication that the projections contained in the Borrie Committee report are, in fact, incorrect. They are seen at this stage to be conservative rather than the reverse. The Green Paper points to the implications of present demographic trends. In particular, it points to the shortages of skilled labour which could emerge in the 1980s. The labour force growth rate most likely will decline even with a medium immigration program. By a medium immigration program, I am talking about a net gain of SO 000 per year. 
There will be reduced enrolments in schools and post-secondary institutions. This is postulated in the Green Paper. There is likely to be reduced rates of growth in the major urban centres with an increased proportion of the population over 60 years of age. I do not think that we should forget the international implications for Australia which is a country magnificently endowed with natural resources and which also has a sparse population in a region where population pressures will become even more acute in the future. We should not forget the international ramifications of that situation. 
As I have said, 2 1 speakers took part in this debate. It would obviously be too long a task to go through the contributions of each  speaker  but I note in passing that the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who is the Opposition spokesman on immigration, attacked the proposition that Australia should look to higher population rates and attacked the proposition that we should be looking at net immigration rates of approximately 50 000 per year. I mention that because it is in somewhat marked contrast to the contributions of speakers from both sides of the House. In fact, very few honourable members who took part in this debate suggested that we should not continue with the immigration program or that we should not look to a greater population in this country. It was stated that we have international and humanitarian obligations in respect of family reunions and particularly in respect of refugee resettlement. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  in particular talked about the need for pro-natalist population policies. I stated previously that I would mention this matter briefly. I have a note which suggests that in Germany and Italy several decades ago deterrent policies were applied to discourage couples from deferring having children. Despite other moral and related pressures applied by the authorities to supplement their tax disincentives it appears that fertility levels in those 2 countries were not significantly increased. The most significant example of an incentive program is in France where extremely generous family allowances and other material incentives were provided by government to encourage people to have more children. The French birth rate is quite low despite this, and is continuing to fall. Some eastern European and European countries and the Soviet Union have resorted to strict controls on abortion as a means of bolstering birth rates. Initially these measures had the effect of increasing fertility. However, before long birth rates dropped to or about previous levels with growing use of contraception and the development of illegal abortion services. So whilst there was an initial kick up in the fertility rate it then started to decline again. 
There is a high percentage of women in the work force in those countries as well but the point I should like to make in relation to pro-natalist policies is that the evidence we have so far indicates that they are not likely to be terribly successful and even if they were, the cost to the community of achieving the aims of these pro-natalist policies would be extremely high. I should like to mention the contributions of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  They both spoke about similar things. They talked about the cultural plurality of the Australian society at the moment. The honourable member for Grayndler talked about the need for increased identity in respect of ethnic groups which are present, particularly in the major cities in Australia at the moment. I agree that we must provide an atmosphere for groups, for individuals to-  (Extension of time granted).  I thank the House. I was talking about the aspect of cultural pluralism in Australia and the need for ethnic groups to feel that they can retain a sense of identity. They should be encouraged to respect and to preserve those features of their cultural heritage which they believe are important and which I believe can make a marked contribution to the development of Australian society in the future. However, I sound a note of caution in respect of this because, as I have already said, whilst I would agree that we must respect the backgrounds of people who have come to Australia and encourage the learning of languages and the dissemination of culture from the many different sources, we must also bear in mind that what we are about is the development of a single nation with a single identity and a common language, and we must not allow cultural separatism to develop in Australia. I think that this warning needs to be issued at this stage because there are some who would bring about a situation where nationalism would become rampant and we would have a cultural separatism which I believe could only bring about an erection of barriers to understanding between different members of the Australian society. 
Overall, the contributions to the debate came down firmly on the side of a developing population. I am particularly cognisant of the strength of the feeling on both sides of the House in relation to this matter. The debate has served to bring about an airing of people's views as to the sort of Australia we should develop. I believe that it has been a successful debate. I believe that it will be even more successful if it brings about in the community at large a better understanding of the background to immigration policy development and as a result of the increased knowledge of that immigration policy development, a series of submissions to the Government which will reflect community views. As a result of that reflection of community views, the Government will be placed in a much better position to development immigration policies which will be acceptable to the nation as a whole and which will bring about the development of Australia, not just in the short term but, most importantly, in the medium and long term, of a size and of a nature which we would all support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Teresa applied to the Australian ConsulateGeneral San Francisco on 8/2/77 using another name which it is understood he had assumed legally; 
The visa was issued on 8/2/77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The figure of 1,5 1 1 persons mentioned in the reply to Senate Question on Notice No. 1463 had been derived from information recieved from the Migration Officer in Madrid who was then responsible for Immigration activities in Portugal, on the basis of actual applications received and from lists in Portugese of what might be called 'tentative' applications submitted from various sources. 
Subsequently it became apparent that there was some duplication among actual applications and the lists provided. This is evident from official documents on Timorese refugees in Portugal compiled by the Commissariat for Evacuees of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees which state that the number of Timorese who arrived in Portugal on evacuation flights totalled 1,392 persons. 
Moreover, many of the people on the list of 'tentative applicants' have not subsequently applied. 
Formal applications held at 1 7March 1 977 from Timorese evacuees in Portugal covered 564 persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) Rhodesians currently seeking to settle in Australia must be persons not excluded from consideration by reason ofthe United Nations Security Council Resolution of 29 May 1968. 
This Resolution requires that all States members of the United Nations should prevent the entry into their territories, save on exceptional humanitarian grounds, of any person travelling on a Southern Rhodesian passport or a purported passport issued by or on behalf of the illegal regime in Rhodesia. The Resolution further requires that all possible measures be taken to prevent entry of persons ordinarily resident in Southern Rhodesia who are believed to have furthered or encouraged the unlawful actions of the present regime or are likely to do so. 
Subject to the above considerations, Rhodesians are eligible to enter Australia for settlement under the same conditions as are migrants from other countries. 
Accordingly to my Department's statistical records, the number of settler arrivals for 1976 (the figures for July onwards are preliminary figures only) who gave their country of last residence as Rhodesia was 1 70. 
I am aware that my colleague, the present Treasurer, commissioned a report from Professor Wilson, I believe in 1970. That report has been sought by successive Ministers for Immigration. If the honourable member asks his own colleagues who held the position of Minister for Immigration or Minister for Labor and Immigration he will find that they sought to have the report finalised and brought forward for consideration. On attaining the office of Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs I too sought the finalisation of the report, and I am pleased to say that I have been partially successful. I have at least had the first part of the report brought forward. However there are supporting documents which are still to be completed. We are endeavouring to encourage Professor Wilson to complete the work that he has undertaken. I cannot give a precise date when the work will be completed, but as soon as it is and as soon as it has been looked at by my Department I will decide whether the whole work can be tabled. 
I cannot give the cost of the project from memory. I will find out as soon as I return to my office after question time and give the honourable member a written reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 11 February 1977 a total of 34 774 coupon inquiries had been received from low-key advertising which began in the United Kingdom on 20 July 1976. A total of 21,169 application forms has been sent to those inquirers who, in reply to questions included in the advertisements have indicated that they have occupational or other qualifications which are prima facie acceptable. 
The advertisements have been aimed at people in professions, technical occupations and skilled trades. Inquirers are required to state on a coupon their occupational or other qualifications so that those with skills or qualifications in demand in Australia may be identified for further consideration. As demand for the various types of skills or qualifications may vary between the appearance of the advertisements and the time when applications are being considered, it is felt that to list specific occupations in the advertisements could be misleading. Such listings could, on the one hand wrongly raise the hopes of some enquirers and, on the other hand lead others to rule themselves out because their particular skills are not listed at the particular time. 
To 31 January 1977 (a) 58.5 per cent of applications and (b) 59.2 per cent of enquiries received came from persons whose stated qualifications and/or experience on basis of information provided met occupational criteria. 
A total of $169,200 has been allocated for immigration information activities in the United Kingdom in 1 976-77. This includes $ 1 30,000 for press advertising. 
Other planned expenditure for overseas use in 1976-77 is a total of $180,466 to print information booklets and leaflets in up to 14 languages. These will ensure that prospective migrants are properly informed about aspects of life in Australia (e.g. employment, housing, social security, taxation, education). $18,950 has been allocated for other countries. This is being used for a variety of information activities. 
Estimated settler arrivals from the United Kingdom for 1 976-77 are expected to comprise (1)10 000 assisted and (b) 12 000 unassisted. Previous intakes have been: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Certificates of Australia Citzenship do not become effective in the case of grantees sixteen years of age and over until they take an oath or make an affirmation of allegiance to The Queen. 
The decision to remove the photograph of The Queen from Certificates of Australian Citizenship was taken in 1 973 by the then Minister for Immigration, when amendments to the Citizenship Act, including the design of the certificates, were under consideration. 
I am informed the decision was taken on the grounds that the Certificate should be distinctively Australian. 
I will see that the matter receives consideration when the design of the Certificate is next under review. 
I am aware that a number of people in Australia wish to sponsor their relatives from overseas to join them in Australia and who make out the case that they have job opportunities for these people to come to. In many cases they make out very persuasive arguments of this nature in favour of the reunion of their families. However, if the Government were to extend the criteria in relation to family reunion, for argument's sake say particularly in respect of brothers and sisters, the numbers of people who would instantly become eligible to come to Australia would expand very rapidly to the extent that a major proportion of the annual intake would be covered by people in the category that I have just mentioned. When we have an economic situation, which unfortunately has resulted in a number of people being out of work, one has to look very carefully at employment guarantees because in many cases employment guarantees mean that that job is not open to a person already resident in Australia. When it can be clearly demonstrated that the job would not be open to a person normally resident in Australia, the application is looked at very closely indeed and in some cases the request for entry to Australia is acceded to. 
There no doubt that the best way in which we can bring about the reunion of families, particularly the brothers and sisters of people already in Australia is to bring about a swift resolution of the economic climate in Australia. The intention of this Government is to bring about a resurgence in the economic climate in Australia so that more jobs will be available and so that we can do many things, including re-uniting brothers and sisters with their relatives already in Australia. With respect to the total immigration intake, as I have said before in this House, I am not at liberty at this stage to say what the Government's deliberations will be, but I shall keep the honourable member's comments in mind. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
At present a group of Russian students and ex-students is visiting Australiasome thirty in all. They are here as part of an exchange program with the Australian Union of Students. It is true that a member of the visiting Russian party applied for political asylum. There has been a decision that political asylum was not appropriate but during the course of interviews a  prima facie  case for migrant entry was established. I have decided that the student should be given temporary entry while that case is examined in detail. 
It is true that teachers for pre-tertiary educational institutions are not on the list of eligible occupations for entry to Australia at the moment. In respect of independent schools, if they can provide a case to the regional directors of migration, who, consult with the State Departments of Employment and Industrial Regulations, which suggests that they cannot recruit suitably trained teachers locally and that the teachers they wish to recruit overseas are of a standard which is acceptable to the Department of Education in the State in which those teachers will be employed, then the entry of those people may be looked at sympathetically. It is true that professors, lecturers, senior tutors and senior research officers are eligible for entry to approved tertiary institutions. This is done to provide the necessary flexibility to those approved tertiary institutions to fill occupations or positions with suitably qualified people. The situation in respect of pre-tertiary teachers will not change so long as the present limited opportunities for pre-tertiary teachers in Australia continue. 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a statement on refugee policy and new arrangements to enable refugee and analogous situations to be dealt with promptly, equitably and effectively. Many of our citizens were once refugees or displaced persons. They have found security and prosperity here and have made a valuable contribution to our country. When we welcomed them, it was hoped that refugees and disabled persons were a temporary post-war phenomenon. Now we have to recognise that this was not so. There still are many people in many parts of the world who can be called refugees. Unfortunately, crises which lead to the endangering and displacement of human beings have become commonplace and it is only the more catastrophic or immediate of such situations which now make the headlines. Despite the best efforts of people of good will and of the international community, we must expect that there will continue to be refugees. Apart from all other considerations, we cannot control the forces of nature. In the past year we have seen the force of natural disasters and their effects for people with associations with Australia. 
As a matter of humanity, and in accord with international obligations freely entered into, Australia has accepted a responsibility to contribute toward the solution of world refugee problems. To this end: It has ratified the Convention on the Status of Refugees; it is a member of the Executive Committee of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and contributes to the resettlement funds of the UNHCR; it recognises the need through its immigration policy to fulfil the legal obligations required by the Convention and to develop special humanitarian programs for the resettlement of the displaced and/or the persecuted. These steps, taken as an involved member of the international community, must now be complemented by the adoption and application of an ongoing refugee policy and refugee mechanism. We do injustice to previous governments if we do not give tribute to Australia's contribution in resettlement of refugees in the past. We have done this partly to develop our country, partly to respond to situations demanding a humanitarian response. We have done this without an articulated policy. Such a policy is needed. 
If we are to seek to act in the interests of refugees themselves and the Australian community, it is necessary to face up to many practical difficulties. Many refugees are not simply migrants beset by a few additional problems. They are often persons who are distressed and disoriented and who need specialised settlement assistance. Uprooted from their familiar surroundings, they may face the shock of cultural dissimilarities, a language barrier and perhaps the trauma of the discovery that their skills or the occupation they followed in their country of origin are not recognised or have no parallel in their country of refuge. 
Those who have in the recent past exhorted the Government to accept greater numbers of refugees must take into account the need to coordinate and develop such Government and community resources as will assist not only in the acceptance, but also in the responsible settlement, of refugees. A fact often forgotten  is  that many refugees do not want to come to Australia or, at least, they prefer to go to another country where, for instance, they have close relatives or their language is spoken. Moreover, our own capacity to accept refugees is not unlimited. Australia's present and future capacity to resettle refugees successfully depends on many factors including: The prevailing economic situation; the level of unemployment; the locations within 
Australia to which refugees wish to go; the background of refugees to be accepted- their capacity for early integration or otherwise; the availability of special post arrival services- language instruction, education, training, accommodation, health and welfare; and the numbers of refugees for which voluntary agencies can care. 
The Government's approach to refugees is based on the following four principles: 
Australia fully recognises its humanitarian commitment and responsibility to admit refugees for resettlement. 
The decision to accept refugees- must always remain with the Government of Australia. 
Special assistance will often need to be provided for the movement of refugees in designated situations or for their resettlement in Australia. 
It may not be in the interest of some refugees to settle in Australia. Their interests may be better served by resettlement elsewhere. The Australian Government makes an annual contribution to the UNHCR which is the main body associated with such resettlement. 
It is the Government's view that the acceptance and settlement of refugees should be a continuum beginning with a quick and decisive response to international crises and concluding, after what may be a long and difficult path for the refugee, with successful integration into the Australian community. We have to recognise, however, that there can be refugees with the sort of background, education and skills enabling them to fit readily into the Australian scene. It may be a disservice to them to continue to single them out for special treatment as refugees after they have arrived in Australia. There are others who may not wish to be labelled as 'refugees' over a period. 
In situations where refugees are under immediate and dire personal threat, acceptance of people who will face settlement difficulties in Australia is justified. More generally, we have to keep in mind that it may not be in the interests of refugees not under immediate personal threat to accept them for entry to Australia if they will face major long term settlement problems here. It may be preferable for them to be resettled in another country or to be sustained in a more suitable environment, through the UNHCR. This is the responsible approach based on the long view which takes account not only of the problem but also of the best solution. 
Within the range of people who are forced by events to become refugees there will be many variations of circumstances and conditions. Needs will differ. The Government recognises that: 
There will be people in refugee-type situations who do not fall strictly within the UNHCR mandate or within Convention definitions. Government policy will be sufficiently flexible to enable the extension of this policy, where appropriate, to such people. I shall return to this. 
Some refugees will be capable of meeting normal migrant criteria concerning family reunion or occupational skills. Where appropriate, such refugees should be selected and resettled in the normal manner under current migrant policies. In accordance with the practice adopted by some other countries, priority in processing will be given to them. 
Other refugees will not fall within the normally acceptable degrees of family relationship or have skills within currently acceptable criteria. Many may have great social adjustments to make in Australia. In offering resettlement to its fair share of these, Australia should first seek those who have relatives in Australia or associations with Australia and those who will be able to make the necessary social adjustments. 
The interests of those refugees who, it is assessed, would have extreme difficulty in adjusting to the Australian environment may not be best served by migration to Australia but be better served by action by the UNHCR or other agencies to resettle them in a more compatible environment. I would stress that the Government readily accepts that there will be people in urgent need of resettlement who will have major problems of resettlement in Australia. It would be inconsistent with the humanitarian nature of refugee resettlement not to accept some people in this category. 
There will also be refugees, some of working age, who will be unable to qualify for selection under these refugee guidelines because of physical, mental or social handicaps. Provided that appropriate institutional care is available, Australia will be prepared in principle to accept refugees in this category. No specific quota will be set but each case will be considered in the light of Australia's capacity to provide adequate care. 
Through its ratification of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, Australia has accepted certain obligations in relation to people covered by the Convention. Situations arise from time to time in which people such as those who enter Australia illegally - for example, deserting seamen- or who become prohibited immigrants- for example, by the expiry of temporary permits- claim to be refugees entitled to the protection of the Convention and in consequence request permission to remain permanently in Australia. A standing inter-departmental body will be established to evaluate such claims and to make recommendations on them to me. It is proposed that the Office of the UNHCR will be involved as necessary in these deliberations. 
To enable Australia to respond quickly to designated refugee situations the Government has decided that new mechanisms will be introduced. These are as follows: 
The Government will consider proposals from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for designating refugee situations and appropriate responses to them. The designated refugee situations will be kept under regular review. Where it is decided that the Australian response to a refugee situation should be in the form of contributions to the UNHCR or other agencies to resettle or temporarily maintain refugees outside Australia, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue to determine the modalities and amount of assistance. 
A standing inter-departmental committee on refugees comprising a senior officer of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs as chairman, and senior officers of the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Employment and Industrial Relations, Social Security, Finance, Health and Education with other departments and the Public Service Board to be co-opted as necessary, will be established. 
This Committee will advise the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the capacity for accepting refugees; consult annually, and otherwise as necessary, with voluntary agencies regarding the numbers they would accept for resettlement; recommend co-ordination for arrival and immediate resettlement; and regularly review the intake of refugees against the capacity of resources in this country to ensure successful resettlement. 
Voluntary agencies are to be encouraged to participate and indicate periodically, or as the need arises, the extent of assistance they can provide. Early consideration will be given to those refugees who are the subject of adequate sponsorship by appropriate voluntary bodies. In this respect there is a continuing flow of refugees in small groups or as individuals brought to attention by the UNHCR and /or by voluntary agencies in Australia. Provided satisfactory sponsorship is available, a small number of such refugees could be accepted on a case by case basis by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Some agencies expect they may be able to maintain refugees approved for entry to Australia for 12 months after arrival here. This will be explored. 
It is proposed to resume the practice of posting an Australian officer to a position in the UNHCR in Geneva and to seek to re-establish formal relations with the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration through observer status. 
The Refugee Unit of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs will be strengthened. This will enable prompt and efficient responses by experienced officers to refugee situations in which it is decided that Australia should participate. We now have considerable experience with the task force approach. The capacity to respond to refugee situations in this and other ways will be developed. 
The first step taken under this new policy will be to locate staff in Thailand temporarily to make a continuing contribution to the resolution of refugee problems there. There will be a regular intake of Indo-Chinese refugees from Thailand and nearby areas at a level consistent with our capacity as a community to resettle them. In this operation we shall be relying greatly on the co-operation of the UNHCR, other Governments, especially the Thai Government, and voluntary agencies in Australia. 
It is clear from the foregoing that the object of the Government's initiative is a declaration of a comprehensive refugee policy and the establishment of administrative machinery needed to put it into effect. It will enable us to respond to the needs of those who are displaced, without the constraint of technical definition. The comprehensive nature of this overall approach should not be seen as limiting Australia 's options in particular situations. A refugee policy must be capable of coping with crises which arise suddenly and often unexpectedly. It must be cognisant of the fact that in such situations human beings have human needs which are intensified by conditions of danger and distress. 
Over the past 30 years, Australia has developed an international reputation for resettlement. It reacted to the plight of displaced persons in Europe immediately after World War II and to the consequences of various events in Eastern Europe, of which the most notable were the Soviet repression of movements towards national independence in Hungary in 1956 and in Czechoslovakia in 1968. Australia has played, and is continuing to play, a responsible part in the resettlement of distressed persons and refugees from the Lebanon and Indo-China. I believe that there would be few in this House who would not support a commitment for Australia to play the most effective role possible in refugee settlement. The Government is committed to this view. It is in the belief that there is a community willingness to assist the dispossessed and displaced from overseas in a sensible and realistic way to seek sanctuary and a new life in Australia, that I commend this statement to the Parliament and the people of Australia. I present the following paper: 
Refugee Policy- Ministerial Statement, 24 May 1 977. 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-I would have thought that after being the shadow spokesman on immigration and ethnic affairs for 17 months the honourable member would have understood that this matter comes within the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Education. I will refer the question to him and make sure that the honourable member receives a full and detailed answer. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the estimated number of aliens 16 years of age and over who were residentially qualified, by viture of 3 years' residence in Australia, to apply for the grant of Australian citizenship but who had not done so as at 30 November 1976: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i)  Mr Di  Piramo 's application is not dated but it was received in my Department's Citizenship Branch on 10 March 1976. 
(ii) 6 August 1976. 
and (b) (ii) I am informed that  Mr Di  Piramo applied to the Department of Foreign Affairs for an Australian passport on 6 August 1 976 and received it on the same day. 
VHF FM Broadcasting (Question No. 814) 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I and my Department do not recall the reference in the National Times being specially drawn to attention. There had of course been references earlier in December in many newspapers to the suggestion by  Mr McCrudden  that Teresa might be brought to Australia for a casino enquiry. 
To the best of my knowledge and recollection I have had no contact with  Mr McCrudden. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information of the type sought by the honourable member is, as yet, not available from the 1976 census. Information from the 1966 and 197 1 censuses is detailed in the following table: 
I have seen reports of a team allegedly selected by  Mr Kerry  Packer. The reports included statements that various cricketers from South Africa would be invited to take part. The Government's attitude towards sporting contact with South Africa is extremely well known and has been stated recently in this House by the Prime Minister. I have not had any applications for entry for South African cricketers to enable them to take part in the series, but I make it very clear to anybody associated with this enterprise that I would have to be satisfied that the entry of such sportsmen would strictly comply with the Government's frequently stated policy in relation to sporting contacts with South Africa. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On the basis of 1 97 1 Census tabulations on birthplace, the 10 largest ethnic groups in Western Australia are persons born in: 
U.K. and Ireland 
Italy 
Netherlands 
Yugoslavia 
New Zealand 
India 
Germany 
Greece 
Poland, and (10) U.S.A. 
The numbers of each of these groups residing in the electoral division of Perth, as at the 1971 Census (which is the source of the latest available information), were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to answer this question without first defining a 'refugee'. 
For many years victims of many different circumstances have been called refugees. These have included displaced and stateless persons, those seeking political asylum, defectors, members of oppressed minorities and victims of natural disasters. 
In 1951 the United Nations adopted a Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. This included a definition of a refugee as 'any person who, owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political group, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. ' 
Using nationality, rather than country of last residence, as the basis; the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has advised that approximately 2000 Vietnamese, 8000 Cambodians and 10 000 Laotians are registered with them in Thailand. In addition, there are people from these countries living in refugee-type situations in adjoining areas but the exact numbers are not known. The Office of the UNHCR also estimates that there are approximately 1 4 000 Chilean refugees awaiting resettlement. 
As of 1 May, 1977, 2061 Vietnamese, 285 Cambodian, 461 Laotian and 728 Chilean refugees have arrived in Australia. In addition, 387 Chileans under political duress have been accepted direct from Chile and other arrivals include some refugees who have been classified for statistical purposes under normal migrant entry categories. 
The Office of the UNHCR has advised that nationals of the other countries listed are not regarded as refugees according to the Convention definition. 
Australia, however, has also regarded Cypriots who were displaced by events in their country as 'quasi-refugees' and has accepted some 6500 Cypriot nationals under special arrangements. 
In addition, Australia has accepted 258 1 people evacuated from East Timor, of whom 1850 remained in Australia. 
The Government has also adopted special measures involving the approval, under relaxed criteria, of Lebanese migrants nominated by close relatives in Australia. During the current financial year an estimated 7365 have arrived under this program up to 3 1 March. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) At the census of 1966, 6048 persons describing themselves as of Chinese racial origin were resident in Australia. 
At the census of 1971, the figure was 26 198. 
I am advised by the Australian Statistician that information of this nature from the 1 976 census is unlikely to be available before the latter half of 1 978. 
and (3) The numbers of persons describing themselves as of Chinese origin, resident in the electorate of St George were as follows: 
Census 1966:606 
Census 1971: 719. 
The above statistics refer to Chinese as defined by racial origin, not by birthplace. 
Gifts to the Wife of the Minister for Primary Industry in 1971  (Question No. 778) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The brothers and sisters of Australian residents are eligble for consideration as migrants if their occupations are among those currently listed as acceptable for permanent entry. 
Persons seeking to migrate to Australia under the close family reunion policy are not required to meet the occupational criteria. Eligible persons are presently limited to the spouses, dependent children and parents of Australian residents. 
It is estimated that a relaxation of the close family reunion policy, that is, so that brothers and sisters would not have to be in an approved occupational category, could involve a minimum of  26 000  migrants in the first year, increasing to  35 000  or  40 000  in the second and third years. It is not possible to indicate the effect on net migration since information on permanent departures from Australia is not available according to relationship to Australian residents. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) To the best of my knowledge or recollection I have not met nor spoken to  Mr Renzo  di Piramo since becoming Minister. 
I have no record of having communicated directly with  Mr di  Piramo. The only written communications I can And relate to a nominaton lodged by  Mr di  Piramo prior to the elections of 1 975 to which I responded through the Secretary of Weisscredit. 
) I received a letter from  Mr di  Piramo in relation to the nomination mentioned. The letter required no reply. 
Federal Funds for Women's Refuges in Queensland (Question No. 618) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and(3)See(l)above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 208 at Sydney, 5 April 1975; 74 at Melbourne, 18 April 1975; 1 at RAAF Fairbairn, 25 April 1975; total, 283. 
The answers to questions (2), (3) and (4) have been provided by the Department of Social Security. 
(a) New South Wales, 57; Victoria, 49; Queensland, 8; South Australia, 1 19; Western Australia, 5; Tasmania, 5; Australian Capital Territory, 13; Northern Territory, 1; (b) Died before allocation, 6; (c) Released to relatives, 13; (d) Transferred overseas, 7; total, 283. 
Adoption is a State and Territory legal process. State Child Welfare Authorities have advised that adoptions of the Vietnamese children have been completed as follows: 
New South Wales, 28; Victoria, 10; Queensland, nil; South Australia, 12; Western Australia, 1; Tasmania, 5; Australian Capital Territory, 2; Northern Territory, nil; total, 58. 
It is understood that in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia the processing by Child Welfare Authorities of adoption formalities for a number of other children has been completed and the applications are awaiting processing by the Courts. 
The majority of the remaining children are in the custody of prospective adoptive parents. It is not possible to place four of the children, who have severe handicaps, with suitable foster parents and these are in State care. All the children who have not been adopted are under the legal guardianship of the Minister for Social Security. 
Under Section 6 of the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act, the Minister for Social Security is the legal guardian in Australia of children who come within the provisions of the Act. This applies to children only after they arrive in Australia and after they have been granted resident status. In practice, the Minister delegates the function of guardianship to the Chief Welfare Officer of the competent State or Territorial authority, who in turn arranges for the custody of the children with foster parents with the view to adoption. The Minister remains their guardian until they reach the age of 18 years or are exempted from the provisions of the Act for other reasons, including adoption, marriage or departure from Australia. 
It would not be appropriate to provide the names and addresses of the people caring for children awaiting adoption, as these children are in a similar position to those who have already been adopted and release of such information is specifically excluded by State and Territorial adoption legislation. 
For the information of honourable members I present the eighth report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I understand that detailed tabulations of individual electorates will not be available until the latter half of 1978. The Australian Statistician has, however, indicated that he will be producing, in the near future, a limited range of statistics which will show for each electorate the population in the following birth place groups: 
Australia 
Great Britain and Ireland 
Other overseas 
Not stated. 
The Australian Statistician has also indicated that, as soon as this material becomes available, he will supply each member and senator with information in respect of his or her electorate or State and that a copy of the information on all electorates and States will be provided to the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some information on migrant settlement within the electoral division of Calare will be provided when the detailed analysis of 1976 Census data is completed. This material is expected to be available in the latter half of 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
a ) Statistics showing the number of visitors applying for and receiving resident status in Australia were not maintained prior to 30 June 1 974. Those available are as follows: 
(i) It is only since 1975 that statistics maintained overseas have been consolidated to show the total number of persons covered by applications lodged, and the task of collating earlier figures now would be of major proportions. Available statistics show that during 1975 and 1976 the numbers of persons covered by applications received were 139 929 and 123 471 respectively. 
Persons granted authority for entry for permanent residence who have actually arrived in Australia for the periods requested are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Advertising 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to his question on notice No. 615. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earlier this evening during the adjournment debate the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised the case of  Mr Tan  Suan Kin. My information is that  Mr Tan  Suan Kin applied to the Australian High Commission in Singapore early in March 1977 for a visa to enable him to visit Australia as a tourist. It was considered that  Mr Tan  was not a bona fide tourist and his application for a visa was refused. I should like to bring to the attention of the honourable member what happens when a visa is applied for and refused. A stamp is put in the passport which states 'Visa applied for'. It is not a visa, it simply alerts any other Australian office to the fact that a visa has been applied for but not granted. The 'Visa applied for' stamp was put in  Mr Tan's  passport to show that he had applied for a visa but in fact it had not been granted. On 20 March 1977  Mr Tan  arrived at Sydney International Airport travelling without a valid visa for Australia. Quite properly, he was refused entry and his departure from Australia was arranged on the same day by the airline which had carried him here. There is no question, on the facts that have been brought to me in relation to this matter, that  Mr Tan  was properly treated in respect of his attempt to enter Australia. I believe that the facts I have outlined should banish any worries which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith may have in relation to this matter. 
Secondly, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  brought up the question of exploitation of prohibited immigrants and he mentioned a particular solicitor in Sydney. I should like to draw to his attention and to the attention of the House a Press statement I issued on 16 May 1977 headed 'Exploitation of Prohibited Immigrants'. I shall quote very briefly from that Press statement: 
At least one body which receives substantial contributions from its 'clients ' continually makes representations on behalf of visitors, some of who have become prohibited immigrants by overstaying their authorised period of entry. 
I should like to make this point: 
These cases receive exactly the same consideration in the Department as those in which the people concerned approach the Department directly. The body concerned has absolutely no influence and in some cases appears to have done nothing more for the fees it charges than raise false hopes amongst people who did not meet the criteria for migrant entry or change of status. 
Allegations are made from time to time about the fees charged by certain solicitors in various cities and towns throughout Australia. I made a point in the Press statement and I wish to make it again. I quote again from the Press statement: 
I note that it has been claimed that certain solicitors have charged large amounts for services related to immigration. People who believe this to be the case should provide the facts to the Law Society in their State of residence. 
The honourable member for Banks raised the matter and named a particular solicitor. If people have complaints about solicitors or organisations which they believe are charging unfairly for services which, I reiterate, are available free of charge to people who come to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, then in the case of solicitors they should make the facts available to the Law Society in the State of residence and in the case of any organisation they should make the facts known to me. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. until Tuesday, 16 August next at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker,  or in the absence from Australia of  Mr Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Committees as Acting  Speaker,  shall by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House fix an alternative day of meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to answer this question without first defining a 'refugee'. 
For many years victims of many different circumstances have been called refugees. These have included displaced and stateless persons, those seeking political asylum, defectors, members of oppressed minorities and victims of natural disasters. 
In 1951 the United Nations adopted a Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. This included a definition of a refugee as 'any person who, owing to well-founded fear, of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political group, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. 
Following is the number of refugee arrivals recorded in 1975 and 1976: 
In addition, 359 evacuees from Vietnam arrived prior to the fall of Saigon in April 1 975 and 240 Cambodian and 326 Laotian refugees arrived in 1976. 
Other Chilean arrivals include some refugees who have been classified for statistical purposes under normal migrant entry categories. 
In 1975, Australia also accepted 2581 evacuees from East Timor. Of these, 1850 remained here. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Statistics relating to- 
the number of assisted settlers and 
b ) other settlers who arrived in Australia in each month from July 1 976 to March 1 977 are given according to countries of last residence in Table 1 below. 
The latest available information on the numbers of persons who have applied to migrate to Australia since June 1976 is in Table 2 below. 
The application rate alone does not give a full indication of the level of interest in migration to Australia nor does it show the level of applications in process. The first enquiry rate reveals a higher level of interest but the figures maintained relate only to cases and not to the numbers of persons involved and are hence not quoted. 
An illustration of the continuing interest in migration to Australia is the 66 per cent increase in the number of persons included in nominations scheduled to overseas posts by mi- f ration offices in Australia from 1 July 1976 to the end of pril 1977 compared with the same period in 1975-76. This is equivalent to a proportional annual rate of 64 000 persons nominated. This figure excludes the exceptional increase in nominations resulting from the special consideration given to the entry of people from the Lebanon under relaxed criteria. 
and (5) Table 3 below provides the latest available information on former settlers and other residents departing from Australia, given according to countries of proposed future residence. It relates to the period July to November 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Chairman: The  Hon.  M. J. R. MacKellar, M.P. Members: Professor W.D. Borrie, O.B.E.  Dr L.  A. Brodribb,  Dr D.  R. Cox,  Mr J.  A. Gobbo, Q.C.,  Mr R.  J. Hawke, Professor W. P. Hogan,  Mr J.  A. Kiosoglous, S.M.,  Mr G.  Lapaine, Professor J. D. B. Miller,  Dr G.  M. Neutze,  Mr G.  Polites, 
M.B.E.,  Mr J.  B. Reid, Or A. Richardson,  Mr H.  J. Souter, A.M., Professor R. J. Walsh, AO., O.B.E. 
31 March 1976. 
There are three committees of the Council and they have responsibility for advising on the following matters: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons in many different situations have been called refugees. These have included displaced and stateless persons, those seeking political asylum, defectors, members of oppressed minorities and victims of natural disasters. 
In 1951 the United Nations adopted a Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. This included a definition of a refugee as 'any person who, owing to well-founded fear, of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political group, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it'. 
Following are details of refugees who arrived in Australia since 13 December 1975: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent information available is from the 1971 Census. On the basis of 1971 Census tabulations on birthplace, the 10 largest ethnic groups in the municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick were as follows in 1971: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
) Statistics are not maintained by place of residence for persons granted Australian citizenship. From January 1949 (when Australian citizenship was introduced) to 1954. conferment of Australian citizenship in the Melbourne metropolitan area took place as a general rule in the Melbourne Court of Petty Sessions. Some private conferment ceremonies were arranged in special cases- such as those involving physically handicapped persons. Prior to 1949 persons naturalised as British subjects were not required to attend conferment ceremonies, but had their certificates of naturalisation posted to them. The table below shows the numbers of persons granted citizenship in the Coburg Town Hall since 1954 and the Broadmeadows and Brunswick Town Halls since 1962. Figures for the Broadmeadows and Brunswick Town Halls for the years 1954 to 1961 inclusive are not available. In recent years many residents of the municipalities mentioned have had Australian citizenship conferred at non public ceremonies conducted by delegated officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since there is a qualifying period for age benefits it is the practice of my Depanment to obtain maintenance guarantees from sponsors in Australia seeking to nominate the aged and dependent parents for migrant entry to Australia. 
My Depanment assesses whether, on the basis of information supplied by the sponsors, they are capable of honouring their maintenance guarantees. Guarantees are not accepted from persons where their stated incomes do not appear adequate to meet the guarantees. In some instances it is necessary to conduct futher inquiries to determine whether the information supplied by persons seeking to sponsor their aged and dependent parents would enable the maintenance guarantees to be honoured. The nature and extent of the inquiries would vary according to the particular circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Justice  Gibbs held the view that the Minister is not bound to alford a hearing to a prohibited immigrant before ordering his deportation under section 18 of the Migration Act. 
No amendment to section 18 of the Migration Act is contemplated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately 13 500 000. 
(a) In the period 1 April 1975 to 1 June 1977, Australia has accepted 206 1 Vietnamese refugees. (b), (c) and (d) The following information has been derived from a variety of sources. The figures given are approximated estimates only and do not have official status. Definitions of 'refugees' may differ from country to country. Some countries which have accepted Vietnamese refugees are not included because information is not available: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  701 nominations have been received covering 2668 persons said to be residents of East Timor. They were described by their sponsors as being within the categories eligible to be considered for migrant entry to Australia. 
The nominations are within the following categories: 
In answer to the honourable member's question, the following table shows the local government areas in each State and Territory in which more than 100 certificates of Australian citizenship were conferred in 1976; the number of certificates conferred in those areas, and the total number of certificates conferred in each State or Territory. 
-I am aware that there are a number of applications for citizenship, not only in Victoria but in all States of Australia, and that has been the case for a very long time. The delay is less at the moment than it was during the honourable member's time in government. I should like to lay this furphy to rest. There is no campaign to delay the processing of applications. This Government regards Australian citizenship very highly indeed. We regard the granting of Australian citizenship as a most serious matter. I think it is cause for some concern that various political parties, but particularly the Labor Party, have reduced the concept almost to a market one. Tables are being set up in the markets in Melbourne where people can get their application forms. Application for Australian citizenship should be such that a person has the opportunity to think clearly about his application. He should be encouraged to apply if he really wishes to take Australian citizenship. Citizenship should not be given away as a matter of no consequence. To finalise the answer, I make it quite clear that there is no overt delay in the processing of applications. We try to make such processing as quick as possible. 
We have just been treated to a typical performance by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes). 
As the honourable member for Bowman says, it was not much good. He characterised his speech by the use of emotional and high-flown phrases. Let me remind the House of a few of them. He claimed there had been an attack on migrant workers- there has been no such thing; union bashing- there has been no such thing; evil and vicious intent- there has been no such thing; and ravings. The only ravings I heard this afternoon came from the Opposition members when they talked about what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  meant by his statement in a speech he made recently in South Australia. 
I want to deal with one thing right at the start. Both the speakers for the Opposition have reiterated the untruth that the Minister for Primary Industry talked about the deportation of migrants who have taken part in union activities. The Minister clearly refuted that statement, but that did not deter the honourable member for Melbourne one iota. He spent half his speech talking about the deportation that he claimed the Minister for Primary Industry had talked about. The fact of the matter is that the Minister for Primary Industry never talked about deportation. I should like to make one thing perfectly clear to the Opposition, to listeners to the broadcast of these proceedings, to migrants in this country and to the House: The Migration Act 1958 confers power for the deportation of persons who have not become Australian citizens in certain defined circumstances. In summary, those powers can be invoked only when a person granted permanent entry, not having become a constituent member of the Australian community, has been convicted for crime, or subject to the right of appeal to a commissioner, on grounds of unsatisfactory conduct generally. There is no intention to change that situation. Obviously, all this talk about the deportation of people taking part in union activities is a figment of the imagination of the Opposition. It is deliberately trying to frighten migrants by this talk of deportation. I have just read out the Migration Act 1 958 and how it is administered. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Melbourne has made his speech. I suggest that he should cease interjecting. 
-I want that withdrawn immediately,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have not told the House any untruth. I have read out the provisions of the Migration Act and how it is being applied. It is absolute nonsense for the speakers for the Opposition to try to frighten people who have come to make their homes in this country by putting up these shibboleths that this Government is thinking of deporting people for taking part - 
-I am denying it right now. I should like to move to the subject of migration because that is my area of responsibility. I think it is appropriate that I should talk about the matter of public importance as it affects migrants, particularly British migrants. It is a simple matter of fact that people from the United Kingdom and Eire have formed the backbone of the immigration program for many years. More than one and a half million British migrants have come to Australia since 1947 and have made a magnificent contribution to the development of Australia. That has been acknowledged by this Government and by the Minister for Primary Industry. As with many migrants, British migrants have played a big part in Australia's postwar progress and in our economic, social, political and cultural development. As the largest migrant group, it is not surprising that British migrants have risen in prominence m many areas of Australian activity- in the professions, industry and commerce, politics, the academic world, the arts, sport, employer organisations, trade unions and the Public Service. 
We have a policy, which has been pursued by successive governments, of saying that when people come to make their homes in Australia they should bring to Australia the good things of their country of origin and leave behind the negative aspects. This has been brought up by the Minister for Primary Industry in a number of statements over the past few weeks. It must be obvious to everybody that with an influx of over three million people since the end of the Second World War some of the migrants from various countries- not one particular country- will not fit into the Australian scene as well as the majority. The vast majority of migrants from all countries have adapted to the distinctive Australian industrial relations and the political and cultural scenes and have helped in their evolution. I should like to pay tribute to the migrants from over one hundred different source countries throughout the world for the contribution they have made, are making and will continue to make. Their impact on the work force has been considerable and critical to the success of many industries. 
The latest detailed occupational figures I have come from the 1 97 1 census. At that time the total number of persons employed was 5.24 million, of which 541,000, or 10.3 per cent, were born in the United Kingdom and Eire. The emphasis on the role of the overseas born in industry tends to obscure the fact that the overseas born in general and the United Kingdom born in particular have enriched our level of skills in all occupations. For example, at the time of the 1971 census over 10 per cent of the United Kingdom and Eire born males in the work force were in professional, technical and related occupations, compared with 8.7 per cent of the Australian born male work force. At that time 2.5 per cent of the United Kingdom and Eire born males were engaged as skilled metal and electrical tradesmen, compared with 1.7 per cent of Australian born males. This trend is evident also in other skilled areas. At that time 2.4 per cent of the United Kingdom and Ireland born males were engaged in carpentry and woodwork, compared with 1.7 per cent of Australian born males; 2.1 per cent of United Kingdom and Ireland born males were engaged as bricklayers, compared with 1.1 per cent of Australian born males; and 1.3 per cent of United Kingdom and Ireland born males were engaged as trademen and painters, compared with 0.6 per cent of Australian born males. These statistics overwhelmingly confirm the significant role that British migrants have played in the Australian work force. It is a continuing role which this Government and, I am sure, the people of Australia recognise and appreciate. 
A more recent survey of the work force which was carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in November 1974 examined the educational status of the civilian labour force. Of all the United Kingdom and Ireland born males 43.7 per cent had post-school qualifications, that is, a degree, diploma, trade certificate, et cetera, compared with 28.8 per cent of all overseas born, 32.6 per cent of the Australian born males and 34.4 per cent of the total male work force. It is absolutely hypocritical for this Opposition to say in this House that it supports migrants. It is a fact that under its administration the numbers of British migrants coming to this country were overwhelmingly reduced. One of the first actions I took as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was to go to the United Kingdom in May last year, which was the first visit by a Minister of the Fraser Government to the United Kingdom, to reassure them that Australia did not- I emphasise these words- have an antipathy towards the British migrants but that in fact we welcomed them. I repeat that it is hypocritical of the honourable member for Melbourne, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and members of the Opposition generally to claim here, with their hearts on their sleeves, that they are defending the British migrants. That is absolute nonsense. By their actions they shall be known. Their actions were significantly against British migrants coming to Australia during the time of their administration. 
Obviously an attempt is being made to paint the Fraser Government as anti-migrant. It is not anti-migrant; in fact, it is pro-migrant. This can be demonstrated quite easily and conclusively. It was the Labor Government which disbanded the Department of Immigration and incorporated it in die Department of Labour and Immigration. It was the Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government which set up the new Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. We have increased the number of migrants coming to Australia. During the Labor Administration the lowest number of migrants since 1947 came to Australia. What a record to be proud of that is. Yet here we hear the Opposition pretending to be concerned about migrants. It is anti-migrant; it has always been anti-migrant. 
A number of additional measures have been brought in by this Government. The family reunion conditions have been broadened. Additional to occupational categories entrepreneurs and smaller entrepreneurs have been brought in. We have had special Indo-Chinese refugees projects, special arrangements for the migration of Lebanese, amnesty for illegal migrants, the abolition of re-entry visas, the establishment of an ethnic affairs branch, the establishment of the national accreditation authority for interpreters and translators, migrant resource centres, the establishment of the Australian Population and Immigration Council, the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council and the establishment of a permanent broadcasting authority which provides a special broadcasting service to cater for the rights of ethnic radio. There is the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council, and I could go on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
May I table the paper referred to by the Minister for Primary Industry? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that no funds have been provided specifically to cover the costs of the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council in the current financial year. However, the Australian Broadcasting Commission agreed to assume responsibility for the servicing of the Council and I understand that the meeting costs are being met from its appropriation for the financial year. 
Meetings have been held on the following dates at the following places:  25 February 1977-Melbourne. 18 March 1977-Sydney. 25 March 1977-Melbourne. 18 April 1977-Sydney. 23 May 1977-Melbourne. 
I understand that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has paid fares for all members except the departmental representatives on the Council, whose fares were paid by their respective Departments. 
Sitting fees have not been paid. The question of expenses is currently receiving further consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:. 
1 ) to (6) The information is not maintained in the form sought by the honourable member. To obtain it would require considerable effort and man-hours, which I am not prepared to authorise. If the honourable member wishes to have information in respect of some specific issue, however, I shall examine his request to see if this can be provided. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff  (Question No. 1026) 
Firstly, the premise on which the Leader of the Opposition has based his question is incorrect. I did not offer amnesty to all illegal migrants in Australia; I offered it to all visitors who had overstayed in Australia as at 3 1 December 1975. Secondly, I have received the Ombudsman's report and I am presently considering it. Thirdly, I believe that the report has already been made available to the public through the people who took action on  Mr Salemi  's behalf. 
There has been a change in the attitude of the Government in relation to an immigration program. Previously we had set a program target for each individual year. This year, as the honourable member has correctly stated, there is no specific program outline. The main components of the intake will remain family reunion- the family reunion criteria will not be altered; they apply to mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, and dependent childrenrefugees, and those people who fit the occupational criteria. The occupational criteria apply in cases where people have qualifications which are both recognised and needed in Australia in the long term. 
The occupational criteria are continuously being reviewed and are totally reviewed every three months. In fact the intake will be altered chiefly by the numbers of occupations which are in short supply in Australia. Of course, again that will depend upon the level of economic activity in Australia, and I hope, as all honourable members would hope, that the level of economic activity in Australia will continue to develop in the coming years. I cannot put a specific figure on where this activity may take place or what numbers will be involved, but I anticipate that the program will be in the same vicinity as last year. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there has been much misinformation disseminated about  Mr Salemi  and I would like to take this opportunity to correct it. 

 Mr Salemi is a prohibited immigrant and has no fundamental right to remain in Australia. He has long since overstayed his authorised period of entry. He did not fall within the category of persons qualifying for amnesty in 1976 and I have not since been prepared to exercise my discretion in his favour. I will be saying more about that matter later. 
He has sought, by appealing to my discretion, by seeking through the High Court to restrain me from applying the law to him, by misrepresenting his activities in Australia to people of goodwill in the community and by orchestrating appeals from members of parliament of a certain persuasion and by enlisting representatives of the community and of left-wing trade unions to sign petitions on his behalf, to restrain me from applying to him the rules that apply to many thousands of other prohibited immigrants. 

 Mr Salemi has no compassionate reasons for remaining in Australia. He does not have any specialist qualifications that would qualify him to enter Australia or to remain in Australia as a migrant.  His  stated profession is that of journalist, but we are not seeking journalists from overseas as migrants at the moment. He is not a social worker. He has no social work qualifications. It was quite erroneous for the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  to say that he has such qualifications. He does not come within the present guidelines for permanent entry- that is family reunion or skills in demand. Nor is he a refugee and there are no humanitarian grounds. He is, as has been admitted, an active organiser amongst Italian migrants on behalf of the Communist Party of Italy and his salary is paid from Rome. The Government respects the right of people to hold varying political beliefs. However, it has been the view of successive governments that it is not in the interests of Australia or of migrants in Australia that political differences in their countries of origin should be pursued in Australia. 
It has been suggested that the High Court was evenly divided on the question of whether I have the right to deport  Mr Salemi.  The High Court did not question this, the principal question before the High Court was whether I had an obligation to observe the principles of natural justice. The decision of the court was that I did not have such an obligation but nonetheless I believe I have treated  Mr Salemi  's case in great detail and given it full consideration, and given him in every instance the right to be heard in respect of matters at issue in accordance with the recognised rules of natural justice. 
During the course of 1976 on three occasions I instructed my officers to tell  Mr Salemi  to depart. On two of these occasions I deferred the required departure date to allow representations made to me on  Mr Salemi  's behalf to be investigated. On the third occasion  Mr Salemi  took the matter to the High Court. The High Court's decision is very clear. However, to place the matter beyond doubt, on my instructions, officers of the Department have written to  Mr Salemi  since the High Court decision was handed down providing him with yet another opportunity to bring to my attention any elements of his situation that had not already been considered. Reports made on  Mr Salemi's  behalf produced no new information. 

 Mr Salemi's solicitor then appealed to the Ombudsman on the grounds that I had been furnished with incorrect information by the department. Although not obliged to do so, I deferred 

 Mr Salemi's departure date until the Ombudsman had completed his inquiry. The only incorrect information given to me by my department was in fact given in good faith and soon corrected. It was not relevant to my decision. Before  Mr Salemi  arrived in Australia his entry had been negotiated with the previous government in order that he might work as a journalist on the establishment of a newspaper,  Nuovo Paese.  Mr Salemi  however applied at an overseas post for entry as a visitor and stated that the purpose of his visit was 'sightseeing'. That overseas post gave him a visitor visa and unfortunately failed to notify my Department in Canberra that it had given him a visitor visa instead of, as it had been instructed, a visa as a temporary resident. On his arrival in Australia he was given a temporary entry permit as a visitor for three months. This circumstance was not however relevant to  Mr Salemi's  case. When his initial three-month temporary entry permit expired he sought an extension. This was granted in February 1975 and on this occasion the correct temporary entry permit, namely as a temporary resident, with permission to engage in employment, was issued. He thereupon ceased to be a visitor. 
It has been alleged that the Ombudsman has reported that I was not properly advised. I believe I was fully advised on every aspect of this case. I have, since the ombudsman issued his report, been formally apprised of the ombudsman's view. I have considered his views and naturally have taken them into account but they have not provided any reasons why I should vary my decision that  Mr Salemi  should leave Australia. The latest instruction to  Mr Salemi,  issued at my direction, was that he should arrange to depart from Australia by last Friday- 19 August. He did not so depart and therefore I have signed a deportation order against him. 
I would like to take up a couple of other points. The complaint to the Ombudsman by  Mr Salemi's  solicitor was a 'shot gun' complaint. He alleged that the administrative actions of the Department breached every element of section 15 (1) of the Ombudsman Act. Reduced to the simplest terms the Ombudsman discusses only two issues, namely whether  Mr Salemi  should have been treated as a person qualified to have the benefit of the amnesty announced by the Minister in January 1976; and, secondly, whether  Mr Salemi's  application for the grant of amnesty was to be regarded as a genuine application- remember that point- in the sense that it was an application by a person having, at the appropriate time, an intention or desire to remain in Australia other than temporarily- in other words, to stay permanently in Australia. 
The Ombudsman, in some 14 pages of his report reaches two conclusions: Firstly, that, in his opinion, the Minister should have been advised at least after the judgments of the High Court case became available that the news releases could reasonably have been construed as applying to persons in  Mr Salemi  's position and that in failing to advise the Minister to this effect the action of the Department was unreasonable in its treatment of  Mr Salemi.  Secondly, that the Department had reasonable grounds for concluding that  Mr Salemi  did not wish to remain in Australia indefinitely and advising the Minister to that effect but that the failure of the Department to make clear the exact position renders sub-section 15 ( 1 ) (a) (v) of the Ombudsman Act applicable to the omission. 
The Ombudsman's report makes two recommendations which have been complied with, namely, that the Department advise the Minister of the opinion of the Ombudsman and, secondly, that though there were reasonable grounds on which the Department could conclude and advise the Minister that  Mr Salemi  did not, at the relevant time, have an intention to reside in Australia permanently  Mr Salemi  had not, at any time, been asked specifically whether he wished either to withdraw or abandon the application for amnesty which he submitted in writing on 1 April 1976. 
It should be made clear that I was under no obligation to withhold any action I might contemplate because of the Ombudsman's inquiry. Nevertheless I chose to permit  Mr Salemi  to remain in Australia until such time as the Ombudsman concluded his inquiry and furnished a report to the complainant. I do not wish to canvass the Ombudsman's findings or his recommendations but I do wish to inform the Parliament that I was aware before the High Court case, and had been so informed by my Department, that the Press releases issued by me were capable of being misrepresented and in fact were misrepresented as providing  Mr Salemi  with a justifiable expectation that the amnesty would apply to him. In this context his legal representative's pleadings to the High Court misquoted the amnesty offer as applying to people who entered Australia as visitors and had become prohibited immigrants, and not, as I had announced, to people who were, at a very specific date, 31 December 1975 overstayed visitors. 
I should make it clear also that an application under the amnesty was an application for resident status- an application to remain permanently in Australia.  Mr Salemi  did submit an application. He told the officer who interviewed him that he did so at the instigation of the honourable member who has raised this matter in the present debate. He admitted to the interviewing officer that he did not want to remain permanently in Australia. 
The honourable member interjects that my interviewing officer is a liar. I will remember that interjection in just a moment. The interviewing officer concerned verified by questions that  Mr Salemi  was not really applying for permanent residence. In accordance with the instructions which applied to the conduct of the amnesty she noted his response and because he was not within the eligible categories referred his application with her report to Canberra for consideration. It is a matter for some regret that the honourable member for Melbourne has taken this action and made this statement about a member of my Department. I shall quote from a letter dated 25 May 1977 which I received from  Mr Giovanni  Sgro, the secretary of the Italian Federation of Migrant Workers and Their Families, known as FILEF. The letter in part states: 
But I felt that we had to defend  Mr Salemi  's right - 
The honourable member should listen to the letter. It states: 
But I felt that we had to defend  Mr Salemi  's right to stay in Australia- and it is not so much  Mr Salemi  who wants to stay here . . . 

 Mr Sgro goes on to say in a later paragraph: 
I bring to your attention the fact that  Mr Salemi  does not intend to remain in Australia permanently . . . 
Later on he said: 
I feel that it is within your power and scope to allow  Mr Salemi  to stay here for another twelve to fifteen months at least, and I can assure you that if we could find a replacement for him he would leave long before then. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I neither confirm nor deny the figures put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. I shall check them and give him an answer after Question Time. 
I was amazed to read a statement by the Leader of the Opposition, issued in Canberra I believe on Sunday, in which he drew attention to unemployment among migrants. I remind the House and the people listening, particularly the migrants, that it was in the time of the Leader of the Opposition as Prime Minister that unemployment among migrants nearly doubled; in fact, it rose by 90 per cent while the Labor Party was in power. That should never be forgotten by people who claim that this Government is not concerned about migrants and about providing opportunities for them. 
In relation to the question asked by the honourable member for Melbourne, it should be remembered that this Government has displayed a most compassionate attitude towards people in very great need. The honourable member will recall that during the year in question over 12,000 people came to Australia in refugee or quasirefugee circumstances. These people were not selected on occupational grounds; so it could be expected that a number of them would add to the unemployment figures. Also, New Zealanders who have entered Australia without the need to be selected on occupational grounds have registered as unemployed, which would add to the unemployment figures in what are classified as the migrant categories. 
In relation to the other matters raised by the honourable member, I have never said, and this Government has never said, that immigration should be seen as a substitute for training or retraining. That certainly is not the attitude of the Government. Immigration should be seen as working in conjunction with training and retraining. But the simple fact remains that, despite the unacceptably high rate of unemployment, there are some categories within which it is not possible to obtain from the Australian workforce sufficientpeople to fill the vacancies that are occurring. This Government, in addition to its family reunion and refugee policies, will continue to recruit overseas those people whose qualifications are both acceptable and needed in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think that that remark should be withdrawn. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of applications for migration are readily available only for the past three financial years, the figures for which are: 
I have seen Pess reports and heard media statements with respect to Domenico Barbaro and two others. I remind the honourable member that this matter was canvassed in the  National Times  in July 1974. Subsequently a question in relation to the matter was answered in the Senate. In November 1976 I dealt with an application for admission to Australia of the wife of Domenico Barbaro and their three children to visit  Mr Barbara's  mother who, I understand, is still living in South Australia. I sought advice from my Department in relation to this request and, consistent with the strong advice it had provided successive Ministers in relation to these members of this family, I decided not to grant entry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The allegations were investigated. 
The  National Times,  August 29-September 3, 1977, carried my Department's reply to  Mr Rolnick  's letter. No further action is contemplated, but the Department accepts the need for continuing care in its liaison with travellers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only country in which Australia advertised for migrants in 1976-77 was Britain. Britain was considered to offer the best prospects of attracting workers with readily recognised trade and professional skills which are in strong and continuing demand in Australia. Total expenditure on advertising in Britain in 1976-77 was $145,000 which was met from an initial allocation of $130,000 supplemented by information funds not required in other areas. In 1977-78 a modest advertising program will be continued in Britain. 
by leave- A study of the economic costs and benefits of immigration was one of three projects commissioned by the Commonwealth Government in 1970. Two of these, the National Population Inquiry, headed by Professor W. D. Borne, O.B.E., and the 1973 Immigration Survey were completed in good time and produced valuable results. The first report of the National Population Inquiry was tabled in Parliament in February 1975 and was the first major study to identify, and publicly comment upon, the national decline in fertility and its implications for the future growth and development of Australia. The report showed that the demographic scenario of the future is likely to be substantially different from that which formed the background for economic development in the 1950s and 1960s. 
The report of the 1973 Immigration Survey, entitled 'A Decade of Migrant Settlement', was tabled in Parliament in September 1976. This was the first comprehensive study of migrants' experiences in Australia and covered such areas as employment, accommodation, language and recognition of qualifications. In addition to listing the major problems experienced by migrants in Australia, the report also identified the migrant groups most seriously affected by problems m these areas. These two reports provide a valuable data base for the formulation of Australia's future population and immigration policies. Their findings are also of immediate relevance to other areas of Government, both State and Federal, and to the private sector. 
I now refer to the report on the third project, the cost benefit study of immigration. Associate Professor J. R. Wilson, of the University of Sydney, in 1970 undertook to carry out a cost/ benefit study of immigration. His appointment was recommended by the then Immigration Planning Council and the project was subsequently placed under its general supervision. Over the period 1970-71 to 1972-73 a total of $39,000 was provided for the study, mainly for computer processing and research assistance for Associate Professor Wilson's work on this project. Progress was, for reasons I am not informed about, unsatisfactory. The Council made assiduous efforts to have the study completed, including the use of a special committee to discuss future action on the study with Associate Professor Wilson. 
Successive Ministers for Immigration pressed to have the study completed as did I. The final report was received in June 1977. 1 believe that I will, in expressing some regret about the apparent quality of the report, speak not only for myself and the Government but also for previous Ministers for Immigration who, like me, had hoped for a greater contribution to an understanding of the economic impact of the post-war immigration program than this report offers. I do not propose to formally table the document. However, copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library for members and senators to examine. 
I present the following paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia's immigration policy is non-discriminatory. No statistics are maintained to show the race or colour of migrants approved for entry. 
For the past three financial years the numbers of migrants showing Rhodesia as their country of last residence were: 
1974- 75-164 
1975- 76-134 
1976- 77-247 
The criteria applied to Rhodesians seeking entry to Australia as migrants are set out in the reply to question on notice No. 530 which was answered on 19 April 1977. (See  Hansard p.  1000) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1975-14; (b) 1976-5; (c) Between 1 January 1977 and 30 September 1977-3. 
Character grounds. 
(a) Nil; (b) nil; (c) 4; (d) 4; (e) 14. 
(a) No; (b) no. 
-(Warringah-Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs)- Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 I present the annual return to Parliament of persons granted Australian citizenship during the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  raised the following as a matter of public importance: 
The Fraser Government's reduction and deferment of services to migrants. 
I, and I am sure everybody else, expected a stinging attack on the Government's alleged misdemeanours in this field but I was rather surprised that the speech covered three main points. The majority of the speech was taken up with a discussion of the organisation within not my Department but the Department of my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  It really sounded to me as though the honourable member were regurgitating the results of information given to him by some disgruntled employee within the Department of 
Social Security and I fail to see how I can be held responsible for the information that that person or group of people gave him. 
The situation is brought into stark relief from the honourable member's own speech. He admitted that it was his own Government in 1974, when it split up the Department of Immigration and moved settlement services across to the Department of Social Security, that caused the problem. I have no argument with that. In fact I would agree. I have stated a number of times that it was the previous Australian Labor Party Administration which demonstrated its total contempt for the wishes and desires of migrants by splitting up the one department to which all migrants automatically looked for help and assistance, downgraded it and amalgamated most of it with the Department of Labour. This again says something for the honourable member's criticism that this Government looks at people as industrial cannon fodder. I think that that probably disposes of his criticism of the organisation within the Department of Social Security. I will draw the attention of the Minister for Social Security to the honourable member's statements and no doubt she will be contacting him. 
The honourable member made the point about what he called migrant welfare courses begun under Labor. I have written it down here and I hope I am quoting him correctly. I have been checking to find out about these migrant welfare courses and I find that the reference is probably to a course of training for bilingual welfare officers who were to be recruited to the Department of Immigration. The McMahon Government agreed to this in July 1972. I am further told that, because of recruitment delays, the training was not commenced until September 1973. Although it was a Liberal government initiative the actual training did not commence until September 1973 under the then Labor Government. The training was completed over a period of about nine months. I am told that no further training took place during the Labor Government's term of office or since December 1975 because no new group of bilingual welfare officers has been recruited. 
The other point that the honourable member mentioned in his speech concerned the Church of All Nations at Carlton. He alleged that the adult migrant education courses at the Church of All Nations have been suspended. Again my information is at variance with the honourable member's interpretation because I am informed that there has been no decision to reduce or cease the funding of migrant classes at the Church of All 
Nations in Melbourne. This was conveyed to  Dr Moonie  by officers of the Department of Education this week. At the same time I am informed that it is important that all courses and classes be looked at periodically- I am sure that the honourable member would agree with that- to assess their effectiveness in terms of attendance and cost. I further believe that the attendance at the classes at the Church of All Nations has been as low as nine in some cases. Reports from the Church of All Nations have indicated that the attendance at the classes has been dropping. I make the point once again and, I hope, very clearly that there has been no decision to reduce or cease the funding of migrant classes at the Church of All Nations, and this decision has been conveyed to  Dr Moonie. 
That really disposes of the matter that has been raised by the honourable member for Melbourne but there are a couple of other things I would like to say. Once again the honourable member drew attention to what he calls industrial cannon fodder and he used terms such as 'sweat shops'. He accused former LiberalNational Country Party governments of recruiting migrants to work only in these situations. There are two things I would like to say about that. Firstly, I do not believe for a moment that the allegation is true, but if it were true it does not say very much for the union movement which is involved at all levels within the industrial and manufacturing sectors. If the conditions about which the honourable member complains were in evidence, this is a very damning indictment of those organisations, particularly of the unions which allege that they look after their members. As the honourable member would know, a great number of migrants are members of unions. He should look to those supporters of his own party before he makes these allegations. 
The other and perhaps more serious thing that I would like to say about this statement that migrants are being used as industrial cannon fodder is that I wonder whether people who use that term, and particularly the honourable member for Melbourne, have taken the time to think about what they are saying. I think that it is time to set this matter in perspective. I hope that when I say this I will not be misrepresented and that what I say will not be taken as demonstrating that I do not have any concern to ensure that migrants are treated fairly and equally with all other members of the Australian community or that I am not anxious to see everyone employed in as congenial a condition as possible. It is true that migrants are heavily represented in employment in secondary industries. Do the honourable members and others who criticise this condition suggest that Australia should have refused entry to prospective migrants likely to be employed in factories? Are they suggesting that all unskilled workers, including refugees and nominated immediate family members, should have been refused entry to Australia simply because they were likely to find employment in secondary industries? Are they saying that the conditions and opportunities of those migrants who have found work in factories in Australia are inferior to the conditions and opportunities left behind? The answer to all those questions must be no. 
I believe that in general it is a malicious gibe to describe Australia's migrant intake as factory fodder because it gives a false representation of the factors underlying Australia's admission of migrants who have taken up employment in secondary industries. More importantly, it is a slanderous attack on the migrants concerned, many of whom have made successful and fulfilling careers in Australian industry. It certainly does not help the migrant's perception of himself as being an important and valued part of the Australian community, nor does it assist the process of acceptance by the host community. For that reason I advise the honourable member for Melbourne to cease using this gibe, this slanderous attack on people who work in factories because he is not assisting integration. He is not assisting the people who work in factories. He is making it much harder for those people to feel that they are a wanted and valued part of the Australian community. 
I would like to use this opportunity to draw attention to some of the initiatives which have been undertaken in the migrant area since this Government came into power in 1975 because there have been others apart from the honourable member, including particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who have misrepresented the situation in relation to this Government's support for migrant services. For instance, the funds for the adult migrant education program in 1977-78 totalled $9,663,000. The expenditure in 1976-77 was $8,959,645. That is an increase of 7.8 per cent. It is not a diminution; it is an increase. The increased funds include the increase in the cost of living allowance. The funds appropriated for 1977-78 are at June 1977 cost levels. The final funds made available for these services for 1977-78 will have regard to national wage case variations and relevant award determinations during the course of the year. Therefore, I repeat, the same level of funds in real terms will be made available in 1977-78 as those made available in 1976-77. 
As from the first pay period in November living allowances will be increased. The new rates mean an increase of $9.15 a week for single students attending full time courses and $16.55 a week for a married student with a dependent spouse. This brings the allowance to $45.15 a week for a single student and $76.55 a week for a student with a dependent spouse. Once again I hope that those people who misrepresent the situation will cease to do it because, as I have just stated to the House, the same level of funds, in real terms, will be made available this year as were made available last year. 
In respect of child migrant education, in 1976 we provided $23,254,000 through the Schools Commission's general current grants program for child migrant education. So far this year $23,838,000 has been legislated for under this program and this amount will be further supplemented throughout the year. In addition, in 1976-77 some $534,870 was provided for other services for child migrant education. This amount has been increased to $560,000 in 1977-78. So again, funds have increased for child migrant education. 
The telephone interpreter service for which the Leader of the Opposition claimed credit, in fact was authorised in July 1972 by the then Commonwealth Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  who was a Liberal member of Parliament. This service has had its funds increased. The total allocation this year is $ 1.1m. That is about $150,000 above the expenditure for last year. Funds are included in this year's appropriation to extend the telephone interpreter service to Wollongong. So again in this area there has been an increase in the funds available for migrant services. This gives the he to those people who claim, on behalf of the Opposition, that somehow this Government has not lived up to its promises to assist migrants. 
In the time left to me I want to briefly list some of the main achievements of the Government in immigration and ethnic affairs since December 1975 because it is important that the record be set straight. First and foremost, I repeat that a separate Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was established immediately we took office. This set aside the disastrous decision of the Labor Government which split up the previous Department of Immigration. The Government has reconstituted the Australian Population and Immigration Council- - APIC - on 31 March 1976. We published Australia's first Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population. For the first time in our history since Federation the Australian people have been given the opportunity to make their views known on matters relating to Australia's immigration and population policies 
We broadened the family reunion categories for immigration and allowed for the entry of entrepreneurs and proprietors of small personal businesses in addition to national need categories. We have announced a far reaching policy for the entry of refugees. The Labor Party's record in relation to refugees, particularly Indo-Chinese refugees, is something of which every member of the Opposition should be absolutely ashamed. We are very proud of what we did in relation to refugees. 
-We are very proud of what was done for people who were disadvantaged by the civil strife in Lebanon. Last year between 11,000 and 12,000 people came to Australia under special circumstances. That is something that the previous Government would not even have contemplated. We have provided an amnesty for illegal immigrants who overstayed as visitors as at 31 December 1975. We abolished the requirement for re-entry visas. We established the first Australian Ethnic Affairs Council. We decided that ethnic broadcasting should be established on a permanent basis and legislation for the special broadcasting service is to come before the Parliament in the current session. In this financial year $1,963,000 is being made available. We established the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council to advise the Government on ethnic broadcasting matters. We arranged to increase progressively the number of hours of ethnic broadcasting. We have moved to establish two experimental migrant resource centres, one in Melbourne and one in Sydney. We have established the national accreditation authority on translators and interpreters to set standards for interpreters and translators in Australia. 
These are just some of the initiatives that this Government has taken in the field of assistance to migrants in the community. It is untrue for the honourable member for Melbourne or any of his colleagues to state in this House or outside that this Government is some way has not provided assistance to migrant communities. In addition, the Galbally Committee is doing extremely good work in assessing the migrant settlement services and now has come up with a proposition - 
Firstly, I would like to thank all honourable members on both sides of the chamber who have taken part in the debate. I cannot deal with all the individual contributions that have been made. I would like to draw attention to some of the points that have been raised by different members. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  led for the Opposition in this debate. He made his usual contribution about unemployment. I point out in passing that unemployment amongst migrant communities in Australia rose by 90 per cent while the former Labor Government was in power. Some of the other aspects that the honourable gentdeman raised concerned translation services. I do not think he quite understands the organisation of the translation service. There are in fact 45 positions in the Department 16 in Canberra, 14 in Sydney and 15 in Melbourne. All but two of these positions are occupied at present. The cost of the services is covered by division 340.1.01. The $40,000 appropriated under division 340.2.06 is for the payment for outside translation services, that is for work which cannot be covered by the languages of the departmental translators. I point out to the honourable member that 45 positions for translators are available within the Department and 43 of these are presently filled. 
The other point the honourable member made this evening and earlier today related to the Galbally inquiry. He said it was a waste of money by this Department. In fact, as is unfortunately fairly frequently the case, the honourable member is astray in his facts. The money is not appropriated from my Department. It comes from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
I am merely answering the honourable member. He said that the inquiry was a waste of money by my Department. It is certainly not a waste of money. I have nothing but admiration for the way in which the Galbally Committee is going about its work. The members of that Committee are working extremely hard. They have travelled widely and spoken to a great number of people in a short time. We are already beginning to see the fruits of the work. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  is, I am glad to see, back in the chamber. Earlier today he made a categorical statement that what I had said in the House was wrong, and that was that we had not developed an entrepreneurial policy in relation to entry to Australia. He nods his head. Let me point out to him that in the period from November 1976 to September 1977- in November 1976 we introduced a policy concerning people with entrepreneurial skills who were intending to transfer funds of $200,000 or more- 36 applications have been approved. Funds stated to be available for transfer at the date of approval total $ 14.3m. Approximately $6.8m of this amount is associated with the purchase of rural holdings, $S.4m is destined for manufacturing and $2m for service industries, including importexport agencies. I think this demonstrates quite conclusively that yet another member of the Opposition is simply astray in his facts. 
I shall come to that. I wanted also to draw the attention of the honourable member for Grayndler to this matter of citizenship. I do not resile at all from my attitude towards citizenship. I believe that Australian citizenship is something to be prized very greatly. I again make the statement that I do not think it is something which people should feel forced to take. I believe that it is a very personal decision which anybody can make. I do not believe that it is in the best interests of people coming to Australia for them to feel somehow that they are expected to become Australian citizens. In saying that I make the point again that I am very very pleased when people do make the decision to become Australian citizens. When they do make that decision I shall assist them in every way possible. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned that we should make further information about the conditions of citizenship available to people. I am glad to be able to report to him that I checked the brief of a new document which will shortly be available and will do just what he is suggesting that we should do. The honourable member for Grayndler mentioned also that he did not mind politics being introduced at citizenship ceremonies. I do, however, believe it is not in the best interest of citizenship ceremonies if party political, sectarial or racial statements are made at those ceremonies. 
I have available to me a Press release issued by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
G. Whitlam)- Press Statement No 113, Liverpool Citizenship Ceremony, Liverpool, 15 July 1977- which is sheer party politics. These are some of the things which caused me to write the letter I did write to aU members of Parliament. I make the statement quite categorically that if members on my side of POlitiCS indulged in that sort of behaviour I would be just as critical of it 
Honourable members have mentioned also that there has been undue delay in the interval between the application for citizenship and the actual granting of citizenship. In fact, in virtually all cases in practically all States the interval between the application and departmental approval has decreased since this Government came to power. People have said that somehow I am against people seeking to become Australian citizens. I point out that over 80,000 citizenship approvals were granted in 1976-77. I am very sorry to hear that people try to put around this mis-statement that the Government is in some way attempting to discourage people from becoming Australian citizens. We are not. What we do say, though, is that Australian citizenship is something to be prized and not something to be taken lightly. 
I was very glad that the honourable member for Grayndler mentioned that there was a need for an advertising campaign to inform people of their rights and the services available to them. I am very pleased that a member of the Opposition has supported the Government's initiative in making $100,000 available to advertise throughout the ethnic newspapers the services which are provided by the Federal Government. 
-However, I have one small criticism of the honourable member for Grayndler. If I may say so, as a person who has been here a little longer than he has, I believe that he has a future in this House but I believe that that future will be seriously - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I ask the Minister to stop for a minute. I have had a complete earful of the honourable member for Melbourne chatting away to himself, worrying about nobody but himself. 
I did receive a letter from  Dr Foschi.  It was delivered to me by the Italian representatives in Australia. It was of a personal nature and I do not propose to make the contents of the letter public. I have received representations from a number of sources which have drawn attention to the circumstances surrounding the decision by the Government to deport  Mr Salemi.  I have explained in each case the reasons for that decision. The reasons are still valid. The deportation order stands. 
I have not seen reports of a number of Iraqi representatives seeking to visit Australia for a breakfast. In relation tq the question of the entry of illegal money, I presume that the honourable member is not referring to counterfeit money but is referring to money entering the country illegally. That, of course, is the responsibility of my colleague the Treasurer. It is difficult to give information as to the actual reasons for people "'siting Australia because often the reasons for visits given when applications for visas are made are very different from the reasons given on the entry card on arrival in Australia. I remember an occasion in the past when some visitors to this country stated in their applications for visas that they were seeking to establish a consulate in Australia. When they actually arrived they said that they intended to visit relatives. As I am aware, neither of those activities took- place. In answer to the final part of the question, I do not know whether indigestion or other forms of dietary upset are the correct ways to describe an event which really had a great deal of bad odour about it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has one library, located at the Barton Offices, Canberra. The secretariat of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications (COPQ) has a small library of books, journals and reference publications relevant to its role. These are located at Commerce House, Barton, Canberra. 
Each State office of the Department has a small collection of reference books. Officers of my Department at overseas posts have access to libraries provided by the Department of Foreign Affairs under common service arrangements. 
In all cases, the purpose of the libraries is to acquire and facilitate access to published material of relevance to the functions being performed. 
Broadly, the publications in the Department's library cover the subjects of immigration, emigration, the education, health and welfare of migrants, automatic data processing and demography. 
The purpose of COPQ library is to collect and make available to its research staff and professional expert panels material from both Australian and overseas sources, which describes and evaluates higher education and the gaining of professional qualifications. 
The following figures are estimates of the two libraries' acquisitions. They do not include any audio- visual material or publications from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, but include items provided free of charge. 
In answer to the honourable member's maiden question- I almost said maiden speech- yes, the Government is very much aware of the need for migrants to have an adequate knowledge of English as being a significant factor in their successful integration into the Australian community. I am aware also of the increasing demand which is making itself felt for adult education classes in English. The Government has taken very close notice of factors which are operating in that area. I have been actively consulting with my colleague who has responsibility in this matter, the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick.  If the honourable member can contain himself for a very short period, I will be able to give him further details. 
by leave- I wish to inform honourable members on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and myself of the Government's decision today to allocate an additional $2.3m for migrant education programs for the remainder of the 1977-78 financial year. During the past few months it has become evident that there has been a substantial increase in demand for migrant education services. In particular some of the factors which have influenced today's decision include the increasing number of refugees entering Australia, the Government's desire to improve access to language classes for migrant women, a general increase in demand for English language classes for migrants, and the commendable way in which some employers are encouraging their employees to develop faculty with the English language. We also recognise the possibility that migrants who currently do not have full time employment may wish to take advantage of the opportunity to attend English language classes. 
The additional funds will bring the total funds available for the adult migrant education program in 1977-78 to $ 11.82m. The funds will be used to maintain the program generally in the face of the increased demand and to provide English language classes for refugees and further accommodation for classes at education centres in migrant hostels. The funds will also allow the development of a number of new projects and increased living allowances for migrants taking full-time English courses. This increase in living allowances is the second this year, as honourable members will recall from statements made by the Minister for Education following the Budget. The living allowances will be raised to the level of unemployment benefits. The Government trusts that this will remove any disincentive ful time students may have experienced previously. The new rates will be $49.30 a week for a single student and $82.20 a week for a student with a dependent spouse. They will come into effect from early next month. 
New projects to benefit adult migrants wil include full time English language courses in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth during the Christmas holiday period. About 300 people will benefit from these courses which will take advantage of language laboratory and other facilities which would normally not be fully used at that time of the year. Closed-circuit television will be used on a trial basis to help teach English language to migrants living in a suitable high-rise housing complex. Details of this project wil be announced by the Minister for Education as soon as possible. 
The increased funds will also allow an increase in the number of English courses available to migrants in the manufacturing sector. This wil be of particular importance for migrant women employees. The Government looks forward to the participation of migrants in the detailed planning and management of the Christmas holiday courses and the establishment of committees in each State to help establish the courses in industry. I point out in passing that these proposals reflect some of the preliminary suggestions of the group reviewing the Post-Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants under the Chairmanship of  Mr F.E.  Galbally, C.B.E. and the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council. The Government will make further announcements soon detailing the consultative arrangements for both types of courses. 
In each of the two years 1974-75 and 1975-76 the total national enrolments in adult migrant education were 75,000 persons. This was increased to 88,000 a gain of 17.3 per cent, in 1976-77, the first year of the Fraser Government. The current decision demonstrates the Government's recognition of the importance of English language instruction in the successful integration of non-English-speaking migrants. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill designed to allow for grants of financial assistance to the States for projects related to the environment. Honourable members will be aware that the Commonwealth's role with respect to protection of the environment and conservation is essentially concerned with national policies, and that the States have the authority and the responsibility for the development and implementation of programs that deal with environmental issues at the grass roots level. In most cases it is the States that nave the legislative powers to monitor and enforce environmental standards. They also have the appropriate agencies and establishments in these areas. The role of the Commonwealth is to assist the States as far as possible and as far as is desirable in providing the means for coordination of policies for the environment. Honourable members Will know that there are councils comprised of Commonwealth and State Ministers through which common standards and common policies with respect to issues relating to conservation and the environment are debated and decided. 
A recent initiative pursued by the Government through the Australian Environment Council is the decision to move towards comprehensive and co-ordinated regulation for the export and import of environmentally hazardous chemicals. The responsible State and Commonwealth Ministers have agreed to the establishment of a national body to assess the environmental effects of potentially hazardous chemicals and to recommend the appropriate controls to Federal and State authorities. For some years now the Commonwealth has also taken the lead in providing special purpose grants to the States to assist them in undertaking activities within a variety of environment and conservation policies. These grants are a reflection of the Commonwealth's responsibility to encourage national standards and national policies, where it is judged that these are required in the interests of the States and the Commonwealth. 
One matter that is of great significance is the question of national parks and nature reserves. A project where the Commonwealth has been able to provide substantial assistance is the natural resources survey now being undertaken jointly by the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania in the south-west area of that State. It is designed to assist the State in making appropriate and responsible land use and management decisions for this unique area of Australia. This particular project is an excellent example of Commonwealth-State co-operative action of a kind which we would wish to encourage through joint consultative arrangements and the grant of funds for special purposes. The need for prompt and effective Commonwealth and State actions to monitor the quality of air in our major cities is well established. The Commonwealth has provided funds in the past to assist in the establishment of monitoring stations as a step towards the setting up of a national program of air quality monitoring and the compilation of comparative data. This is an on-going program and our consultative arrangements will be underpinned this year through the grant of further financial assistance for this important initiative. 
In the current financial year amounts are included in the Appropriation Bill for grants to the States for air quality monitoring, soil conservation, and nature conservation. The purpose of this present Bill is to allow for these grants to be disbursed to the States. Honourable members will be pleased to know that the Bill will provide the mechanism not only for these three programs this year but also for others that may be deemed necessary in subsequent years. In other words, it is a standing piece of legislation that will be available to provide a proper and convenient means for the Commonwealth to assist the States financially with respect to matters relating to the environment. 
The Bill provides for the Minister to agree with a State upon financial assistance and, acting jointly with the appropriate State Minister, to approve projects relating to the environment. Agreements made under this provision in the Act will be laid before each House of Parliament, as is the customary procedure. It is in essence a simple Bill, but it is, nevertheless, a significant pokey decision which emphasises again the Government's concern to work co-operatively with the States, through well established means in the interests of responsible and rational management of the environment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the activities of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to 30 June 1 977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to question No. 10786  [Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 989). 
Yes, I am aware of complaints regarding late payments of taxation refunds to overseas born residents of Australia, particularly in the Wollongong area and in the electorate of Macarthur. I thank the honourable member for Macarthur and also his colleague  Senator Lajovic  for bringing these complaints to my attention. It is tremendously important,  Mr 

 Speaker, as I am sure you would agree, that refunds are paid as quickly as possible. I know that these taxpayers have taken the trouble to put in their taxation returns just as soon as they could. I am very disturbed to think that there may be some feelings of discrimination against such taxpayers. I hope and trust that the Australian Taxation Office will make a quick investigation of this matter. To hasten that investigation I have taken up the matter personally with the Treasurer. Unfortunately the Treasurer is not with us today. Therefore I shall draw this matter to the attention of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer in the hope that these refunds can be paid as soon as possible. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his quesiton, because it gives me an opportunity to lay to rest much of the misrepresentation, particularly by members of the Opposition, of the Government's attitude towards citizenship. A number of statements have been made which suggest that somehow this Government is against the granting of citizenship to people who are eligible to take out citizenship. I point out very briefly that in 1972 the number of persons granted citizenship was 25,971; in 1973, 34,891; m 1974, 40,709; in 1975, 84,059; and in 1976, the first full year of the present Government, 1 1 8, 1 89. In the six months from January to June 1977 the number was 36,606. These figures give the lie to those people who suggest that this Government is against granting citizenship to* people who are eligible to obtain citizenship. 
In relation to the actual questions, information has been made available to citizens about their eligibility to vote in federal elections. I have not given instructions that people should be denied citizenship prior to the elections this year. I have said, and I nave repeated, that those people who are eligible to be granted citizenship should be given it in the shortest possible time. The period of waiting for citizenship under this Government has been reduced significantly from the waiting period under the previous Labor Administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When the Department of Immigration was abolished by the then Government in June 1974 its various functions and records were transferred to a number of different departments. 
The information requested is not, therefore, readily available but it will be sought 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government, in co-operation with the Turkish Government and the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales, entered into an arrangement in 1974 for five Turkish teachers employed by the Turkish Government to come to Australia to teach the Turkish language and culture to Turkish children in some schools in those States. Arrangements are currently being made for another three Turkish teachers to come to Australia, on contracts they have with the Turkish Government, to continue this work in Victorian Government schools. Turkish children also are able to learn Turkish in ethnic schools established by the ethnic community. The survey of ethnic schools conducted by the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools produced a response from two Turkish schools, one in Victoria and one in New South Wales. 
The Commonwealth also funds special bridging courses for teachers trained in migrant source countries at the State College of Victoria, Toorak, and the Sydney Teachers' College. Eight Turkish teachers have enrolled in these courses. In addition, a number of bi-lingual and multi-lingual projects have been funded through the special projects program of the Schools Commission to encourage the exploration of the principles involved in this kind of development. 
Yugoslav Citizens in Australia: Language Tuition (Question No. 678) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Agreement between Australia and Yugoslavia on the o Residence and Employment of Yugoslav citizens in Australia came into force on 20 May 1970 but has not been implemented because of procedural difficulties which arose subsequent to the signing of the Agreement Nevertheless, Yugoslav migrants have the same opportunity as other migrants to participate in English language courses and classes provided under the adult migrant and the multi-cultural education programs. The Commonwealth provides special funding for these programs. The Commonwealth also funds special bridging courses for teachers trained in migrant source countries at the State College of Victoria, Toorak, and at the Sydney Teachers' College. Two Yugoslav teachers have enrolled in these courses. A number of bi-lingual and multi-lingual projects also have been funded under the special projects program of the Schools Commission to encourage the exploration of the principles involved in this kind of development 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
English classes are available for adult Maltese migrants as part of the overall adult migrant education program. Special funds are provided through the Schools Commission to education authorities in the States for migrant and multi-cultural education including English language classes for migrant children from non-English speaking backgrounds. The report of the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools shows that a primary school in Victoria provides a course in the Maltese language. In addition, the Commonwealth funds special bridging courses for teachers trained in migrant-source countries at the State College of Victoria, Toorak, and the Sydney Teachers ' College and one Maltese teacher has enrolled for this course. A number of bilingual and multi-lingual projects also have been funded through the special projects program of the Schools Commission to encourage the exploration of the principles involved in this kind of development 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
English classes are available for adult Italian migrants as part of the overall migrant education program. Special funds also are provided through the Schools Commission to education authorities in the States for migrant and multi-cultural education including English language classes for migrant children from non-English speaking backgrounds. Surveys conducted by the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools indicate that there are 41 courses in Italian in primary schools in Australia while 184 secondary schools offer Italian language courses. Italian children may also be taught in ethnic schools and a survey conducted by the Committee produced a response from 101 ethnic schools (37 in New South Wales, 56 in Victoria and eight in Western Australia). 
The Commonwealth also funds special bridging courses for teachers trained in migrant-source countries at the State College of Victoria, Toorak, and at the Sydney Teachers' 
College. In addition, discussions are taking place with Italian authorities about a possible pilot primary teacher exchange project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) As at 30 June 1977, 144 Australia based staff as well as 419 locally engaged staff were employed at offices of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs overseas. The locally engaged staff are, in fact, employed by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The table below lists staffing by posts. 
Some posts have responsibility for migration matters for two or more countries. The numbers of arrivals shown in the table are related to settler arrivals from the country in which any post is located and from any other countries for which it has responsibility. These figures include arrivals of nominated persons and of direct applicants. However, the workload involved in handling nominations from Australia is not reflected in the numbers of inquiries listed in the table. 
The 'numbers of inquiries' relate to aU countries within a post's jurisdiction. Such levels, however, are not indicators of the actual workloads since figures are maintained overseas only in respect of first migration inquiries. They do not, for instance, cover subsequent inquiries or the very extensive work related to applications for entry to Australia for visits or temporary residence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

To the best of my knowledge and recollection I first met  Mr Massimino  Del Prete in the latter half of 1975. 
Since then I have met and spoken to him on some three or four occasions. 
On all occasions the discussion centred on matters relating to the ethnic Press. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowance excluding car hire for the travel and subsistence appropriation in Australia (including short term overseas visits) are: 
a. Overseas travel-$70,961 b. Domestic travel-$ 156,894 
a. Overseas travel- 20.93 per cent b. Domestic travel- 46.36 per cent 
Amounts expended on fares and travelling allowance at overseas posts where Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is represented, and the cost of travel of officers and their families both from and to Australia and inter post are: 
1 ) Travel at posts - $99,949 Overseas transfer costs-$499,092 
Travel at posts- 12.19percent Overseas transfer costs- 60.89 per cent 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs: Expenditure on Travel (Question No. 1650) 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question because it enables me to inform the House of the policies pursued by this Government in relation to Indo-Chinese refugees and to compare them with the sorry record of his Party when it was in government. From memory, since 1975 some 6,100 IndoChinese refugees have come to Australia. Of that number just over 1,000 have arrived in small boats on the north coast of Australia. I have given assurances that medical checks will be carried out, as they have been, particularly when we have had the opportunity to do so in the camps in Malaysia and Thailand in particular. Obviously those people arriving in small boats have not been checked medically before they arrived but immediately after arriving extensive medical checks have been carried out. Where some medical problems have been discovered action has been taken to overcome any possible risk to public health that they may represent. I have been in constant touch with voluntary organisations in relation to the successful integration of refugees, not only Indo-Chinese refugees but all refugees coming to Australia. The Government is continuing those consultations. I should like to pay tribute to the interest and commitment of the voluntary organisations in this humanitarian work. Last year the Government had two meetingsfrom memory the last one was in Novemberwith representatives of the voluntary organisations. These meetings are designed to ensure that the closest co-operation and co-ordination of effort take place. I will check after Question Time to see whether there are any aspects of the honourable gentleman's question that I have not covered. If there are, I will reply to him further. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. On 22 February I was interviewed by a journalist from Australian Associated Press. He asked me many questions about aspects of migration to Australia. In the course of that interview I said that I saw a continuing influx of people into Australia in the future and that we would probably see a change in the countries of origin and the proportion of people coming from those various countries to Australia. I mentioned that it would not be surprising if we had a bigger intake from Southern Africa than we have had in the past. I also mentioned North America and South America in relation to possible increased intakes. 
I was also asked whether, in referring to increased intakes from Africa, I was talking about blacks as well as whites. I said, in reply, that I believed that there would be a great wish for a large number of black people to come to Australia. In the context of the questions I was asked I clearly intended this to mean that I believed that there would be interest on the part of a large number of black people to migrate to Australia. That in no way was intended to suggest that there would be an influx of a group of people of any particular colour from Africa into Australia. 
Our immigration policy is and will continue to be one of non-discrimination in the sense that eligibility criteria are applied in the same way to all people applying to migrate to Australia. Whilst there is undoubtedly interest among many groups of people in migrating to Australia, whether they are approved depends on their meeting eligibility criteria. Therefore, in short, I did not predict an influx of black, white and coloured South Africans but did indicate that I would not be surprised if larger numbers of people from Southern Africa who meet our eligibility criteria come to Australia. 
People who are suggesting that migrants are being admitted specifically to do the dirtiest jobs either do not understand our current migration policy, or worse, are deliberately trying to mislead people as to what that policy is. At present the only unskilled people who are being admitted are some of those who qualify under the family reunion or the refugee criteria. I believe that there is a unanimous view that these eligibility criteria should be maintained. Other migrants are approved on the basis of a list of occupations in strong and continuing demand in Australia. That list is prepared by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and is circulated to all members of Parliament. Members who receive that list will know that it is confined to professional, technical and skilled occupations. 
I welcome the debate initiated by the honourable member for Maribymong  (Dr Cass).  I sympathise with him. I understand that he has nobody supporting him in this debate he has brought forward. The Government for its part, in marked contrast to the Opposition, places very great stress on the services provided to migrants and in considering the total policies relating both to the entry of migrants and to the integration of migrants once they have arrived in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarsOrder!  Is the honourable member taking a point of order? 

 - Mr Brych, as I understand it, travels on a New Zealand passport and therefore does not have to apply for a visa to visit Australia but, because of certain allegations about his alleged criminal history, he comes within the provisions of the Migration Act. In 
June last year the Minister for Health advised me that  Mr Brych  had been struck off the New Zealand medical register owing to the fact that his claim to be a doctor had been investigated very closely by the New Zealand medical authority and they had found against his claim. Following that advice from the Minister for Health, I required that before entry to Australia  Mr Brych  should sign an undertaking not to practice medicine in Australia or undertake activities which were within the province of the medical profession. This in no way precluded  Mr Brych  from speaking publicly or privately about his treatment for cancer victims, but unfortunately at that stage  Mr Brych  refused to sign the undertaking. 
However, approximately two hours ago I was advised that a letter had been received in our High Commission in New Zealand containing a signed undertaking by  Mr Brych.  Therefore the conditions which I imposed have been satisfied by  Mr Brych  and he is free to travel to Australia at any time that is suitable to him. I hope that he does and tries to justify the treatment which he claims is a beneficial treatment for cancer. Let me say in conclusion that there has never been any suggestion that  Mr Brych  's right to justify or attempt to justify his treatment has been in any way curtailed. All I have sought to do is to ensure that, subsequent to the New Zealand medical authorities' findings in relation to his case, he did not practice medicine here or enter the province of the medical profession. 
I am not aware of whether the members of the Galbally Committee are still hearing submissions. I believe that the submissions have been completed. I understand the situation is that the report is in the final processes of being written. It has not yet been presented. As the honourable member would know, the Galbally Committee was set up by the Prime Minister and it will be reporting to the Prime Minister. In respect of administrative arrangements, that again is the decision of the Prime Minister. He has made those arrangements and has announced them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the Australian Statistician that it is not yet possible to provide information of the type sought by the honourable member from the 1 976 Census. 
Preliminary information, relating to both 1968 and 1977 electoral boundaries, containing limited birthplace information (persons born in Australia, born in United Kingdom or Ireland, born in other overseas countries, not stated) was compiled during the initial stages of processing of the 1976 Census and provided, during 1977, to the Parliamentary Library, political parties and Members of Parliament. 
Final processing of the 1 976 Census if not yet complete and, at this stage, the Australian Statistician is unable to indicate exactly when the information sought will become available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1. (a) and (b) Advertising on behalf of the Department in these periods was undertaken and funded by the Department of Administrative Services. 
In Australia $ 124.44; overseas $ 1 09,65 1 . 
Accounts paid in Australia up to 9 March 1978 were $65,658.63 and paid overseas up to 28 February 1978 were $15,594. 
Expenditure in Australia in 1 (c) was an outstanding item from a campaign funded previously by the then Department of the Media to advertise the Telephone Interpreter Service. 
Expenditure in Britain was on promotional advertising for suitable qualified migrant workers and their families. 
Expenditure in Australia under 1 (d) above was from an allocation under the Ethnic Community Assistance Vote (863-0-01 ). All other expenditure was from funds under the Migrant Publicity Vote (340-2- 1 0 ). 
The arrangements in Australia are made through the Australian Government Advertising Service and do not directly involve this Department. In Britain the expenditure referred to in1 (c) included $1,079 paid to the advertising agency as production charges. 
In Australia by the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
In Britain advertising arrangements are reviewed every three years and an agency is selected by the Chief Migration Officer with the assistance of officers of the Purchasing Branch, Australia House. The agency is selected from among leading agencies who express interest and is retained on a three-year contract. 
In Australia: $154,500 ($100,000 from Ethnic Community Assistance Vote). Overseas: $145,000. 
-This matter was brought to my attention last year. Following that, I consulted Ministers of other interested departments and an interdepartmental committee was set up to look at the implications of the question. A task force was established and that task force journeyed to Thursday Island in the Torres Strait in October last year and again in February of this year. The task force has reported back to the IDC which is composed of interested departments. The task force was charged with the responsibility of investigating the allegations, keeping firmly in mind the traditional rights and traditional movements of people from Papua New Guinea in the Torres Strait area. The interdepartmental committee is at the present time considering the report of the task force. The response to that report has not yet come to me, but the initial investigations show that the movements referred to by the honourable member are not considerable. 
In answer to the honourable member's question, the following table shows the. local government areas in each State and Territory in which more than 100 certificates of Australian citizenship were conferred in 1977; the number of certificates conferred in these areas, and the total number of certificates conferred in each State or Territory: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Passengers who are refused entry to Australia are detained in the Secure Area of an airport, i.e. the Transit Lounge, until their departure from Australia. In cases where this involves an overnight stay, the passengers are transferred to the custody of Commonwealth Police. Such persons are not deported. They are denied entry and their departure is arranged by the carrier. 
and (3)See (1)above 
Preliminary figures maintained by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate 1,660,404 passengers entered Australia by air during 1977. Figures are not maintained on crew movements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) to (3) No officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or from instrumentalities associated with my portfolio travelled from their home base to another location to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional meeting held in Sydney. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The general requirement for the issue of a visitor visa are that an applicant should: intend a bona fide short term visit only be in possession of, or have access to, sufficient funds for maintenance and travel purposes without the need to undertake employment be in possession of a valid acceptable travel document be in sound health and of good character provide an undertaking that whilst in Australia he will not engage in employment or formal studies. 
There are other requirements also which have limited application. For example, representatives of so-called governments not recognised by Australia would not normally be granted visit visas; in considering applications by persons holding Rhodesian passports, or who ordinarily live in Rhodesia, account is taken of the Sanctions against Rhodesia imposed by Resolutions of the United Nations Security Council; visitors from Taiwan are required to provide an undertaking relating to their activities whilst here. 
Visitor visas may be denied in the event that an applicant cannot satisfy any one of these requirements. 
) The numbers of person refused visit visas were: 
The honourable member will be aware that on the day following his asking the question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, responsibility for the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act was transferred to me under the Administrative Arrangements Order published in the Commonwealth Government Gazette of the 23rd February 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is that adoption is a State and Territory legal process. I am informed that State and Territory child welfare authorities have stated that 1 96 of the children in question have now been adopted and the adoption of the majority of the remaining children is pending. 
Department of the Northern Territory: Travel and Subsistence Expenditure (Question No. 264) 
Yes, I do uphold my statement that Australia 's quarantine and health laws are being maintained. I am not aware of the exact number of patients in any particular institution, but the fact that the patients referred to are being treated demonstrates that their medical condition has been detected and treatment is being carried out. In this way the public is being protected. I am not aware of the particular institution to which the honourable member has referred, but certainly after Question Time I shall ascertain the background of the people referred to. It may be that the majority of those patients came to Australia on small boats. Of course, the people on those boats are not processed medically before they arrive in Australia. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong seems to have a great deal of difficulty in getting the simple facts into his head. He has made statements on this matter on a number of occasions which are completely at discord with the facts. The simple facts are that this Government has a record of concern and expenditure in the ethnic affairs area, and particularly in the migrant education area, which has never been matched by any previous government, particularly the Government in which the honourable member was a Minister. I have said, and I stand by the statement I made, that in fact a record expenditure has been allocated for migrant education in this financial year. That is a simple fact which cannot be disputed. 
I thank the honourable member for St George for his question. He, along with other members of the House, has a large community of Greek origin living in his electorate. I think we should make it absolutely clear that naturally enough all members of the Australian community are subject to the law. But, having said that, again I make it absolutely clear that these people who have been charged in relation to alleged frauds with respect to social security payments have been charged as individuals , not as members of any community or as people of any ethnic community background. It is an unfortunate fact that in situations of this nature some parts of the media tend to lay stress on the ethnic background of people involved. I would hope that all areas of the media in reporting instances of this nature would keep in mind the effect that their reports can have on the successful integration of people into the broader Australian community. There is no need for the members of the large Greek community in Australia to feel ashamed of their efforts in relation to the development of Australia as a nation. They make up one of the largest ethnic communities in Australia. They have a very long and distinguished history in contributions to the development of this country. I finish my answer by saying that members of the Greek community in Sydney have distinguished themselves by their efforts to assist the investigation because they, like all other Australians, feel that, if fraud is being perpetrated, they as individuals need to assist the authorities to bring the perpetrators of that fraud to justice, no matter what their ethnic background may be. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 received the report of the Commission on or about 30 November 1977. 
I was not consulted in relation to any decisions taken concerning the provision of multi-lingual or other staff who might facilitate the access of migrants to the Commission. 
In relation to this part of the question I wish to draw the honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's reply of 1 March 1978 to a question of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition concerning the report of the Commission. 
The Prime Minister indicated that the views of the States on the report were being sought and that the Government would wish to be in a position to take full account of these and of the views of the community as a whole before coming to firm decisions on specific aspects of the report. 
In the meantime, the recommendations relating to migrants to which the honourable member has referred are being examined within my Department, and careful consideration is being given to those aspects of them which relate to the responsibilities of my portfolio. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. However, I referred to 'skills which are in strong and continuing demand in Australia '. 
Trade recognition criteria in the metal and electrical trades for Britain and a number of European countries were established in 1 969 following the visit to Europe by an Australian Tripartite Mission comprising Government, employer and union members to study the training of skilled workers in the metal and electrical trades. Similar missions visited the Philippines and South America in 1 974 and criteria for the countries visited have also been established by Central Trades Committees which have representatives of the unions and employer organisations in the trades concerned as well as a representative of the Government. 
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs employs technical advisers overseas. These officers are fully versed in trade requirements in Australia in the metal and electrical fields and are able to assess whether a prospective migrant's trade qualifications meet the criteria determined for recognition as a tradesman in Australia and advise the prospective migrant accordingly. 
Any migrant applicants in countries for which criteria for recognition have not been set are required to provide full details of their qualifications and these are examined in Australia by the appropriate Central Trades Committee which advises on the prospects of recognition in Australia. 
Against this background, it has been decided to introduce an ongoing program of missions to establish trade recognition criteria in significant migrant source countries not previously visited and to revise existing criteria. As the first stage in the program, arrangements are being completed for a Tripartite Mission to study the training of skilled workers in the metal and electrical trades in a number of Asian countries this year. 
The Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications, which was set up in 1969 continues to work in the area of the recognition of professional qualifications from all overseas countries. The Committee's terms of reference are: 
1 ) To seek out, assemble and collate information relevant to the recognition of overseas professional qualifications. 
) To make evaluations, on its own authority, of the comparability of professional qualifications obtained in overseas countries to the standards required in Australia. 
To supply information on these matters to government statutory bodies, professional associations and other responsible inquirers. 
For the purpose of 1 and 2, to establish as necessary, expert panels whose task would be to undertake detailed investigations and assessment in specific professional areas; to co-ordinate the work of these panels. 
To undertake, or to authorise, such first-hand investigations as may be necessary for the proper discharge of its task. 
The terms of reference restrict the Committee to work on professional' qualifications and exclude consideration of trade qualifications, though the question of extending its terms of reference to sub-professional and technical areas is now being considered. 
The Committee has set up expert panels in 14 fields to assist it with its work. It has developed screening examinations in several professions to enable potential migrants to demonstrate whether their professional competence is sufficient to enable them to obtain registration in Australia. This is a particularly important initiative since prospective migrants are able to ascertain the likelihood of registration in their profession while still overseas. 
The total expenditure on advertising for migrants in 1977-78 in (a) Britain is estimated at $145,000 and (b) other countries nil. 
The following table gives assisted and unassisted arrivals for 1976-77: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Indonesian Government has advised that final arrangements for the visit to East Timor by an Australian Immigration team will be discussed after the Presidential elections this month. We are, therefore, planning on the visit taking place in the near future. 
Detailed arrangements for the visit of an Indonesian team to Australia have not been formulated. 
Royal Commission on Petroleum: Consideration of Recommendations (Question No. 160) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1  ) I am informed that your direction, as Prime Minister, that the Survey was to be undertaken was confirmed by you in writing on  16  July  1975.  The survey was terminated, along with a number of others, by Government decision and advice was forwarded to the Australian National University on  13  February  1976. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Government recently decided that $  10,000  would be provided in  1977-78  for a survey of the settlement experience of Indo-Chinese refugees in Australia. A further  $20,000  would be provided to continue the survey in  1978-79  and  1979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1  ) The following table shows the estimated number of aliens  16  years of age and over who were residentially qualified by virtue of  3  years' residence in Australia, to apply for the grant of Australian Citizenship, but who had not done so as at  3 1  December  1 977: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) For the first seven months of 1977-78 the preliminary figures are: 
6,498 skilled persons 
739 semi-skilled persons 
258 unskilled persons. 
Notes: 1(a) includes some family members other than the principal applicant. 1 (b) and 1 (c) both consist of family members other than the principal applicant. In addition, there are 346 other workers whose occupational coding in the administrative records has to be clarified. 
Nurses, Matrons- 801; Fitters, Turners, and Fitters and Turners- 577; Typists-Stenographers- 549; Medical Practitioners and Specialists- 436; Motor Mechanics- 344. 
, (4) and (5) Information is not available in the detail sought by the honourable member. The system of preparing a list of approved occupations in strong and continuing demand and of selecting migrants with skills and experience in those occupations recognised in Australia is intended to ensure their placement in suitable employment on arrival in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Full-time staff- Head office, 3; Other offices, nil. (b) Part-time staff- Head office, 1 ; Other offices, 2. 
(i) Salaries, $29,95 1; (ii) Other Charges, $ 1 30. 
In Canberra my Department is housed in accommodation in Barton Units 1, 2 and S; John Curtin House, Barton; Commerce House, Barton; Southlands House, Mawson; C.M.L. Building, City; Northbourne House, Turner and the M.L.C. Tower, Woden. Of the three full time staff at Head Office, two provide the service at Barton and one at Southlands, Mawson. The one part time attendant is employed at Northbourne House. In other areas alternative facilities are available. 
The two part time attendants employed at Regional Offices are in Perth and Adelaide. Other Regional Offices have canteen facilities or tea and coffee making machines available and no expenditure is incurred. 
The other changes incurred are for the provision of a tea service for various departmental training courses held during the year. 
Where staff are employed in providing a tea service all costs, excluding salaries, are met from officers' fortnightly contributions. 
Cost of Inquiry into matters concerning  Mr W.  F. Toomer (Question No. 526) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In 1951 the United Nations adopted a Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. This included a definition of a refugee as 'any person who, owing to a wellfounded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political group, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it'. 
Australia, as a party to this Convention, fully recognises its humanitarian commitment and responsibility to play its part in the resettlement of refugees. The Government recognises, however, that there are people in refugee-type situations who do not fall strictly within this Convention definition. Government policy is sufficiently flexible to enable the extension of this policy to such situations if it is decided that this is appropriate. 
Two bodies have been established to advise the Minister on refugee matters. The Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Refugees advises on the designation by Australia of refugee situations and Australia's response to them. The 
Determination of Refugee Status Committee evaluates applications by persons in Australia for refugee status in accordance with the definition in the Convention and makes recommendations to me. (3), (4) and (5) Non-dependent parents of working age may be approved for migrant entry to Australia if they are assessed as economically viable, of good health and character and meet selection standards. There is provision for patrials, persons with a close association with Australia, fiance(e)s and British Commonwealth citizens resident in New Zealand to come to Australia as migrants without having to meet occupational criteria. 
For other applicants, a list of occupations for migration drawn up by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is used to establish eligibility for entry on the basis of qualifications or experience recognised in Australia. The list covers a number of skilled trades and professions with the level of demand indicated for each State and Territory, and according to metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas in some instances. 
The honourable member may refer to this list, a copy of which is forwarded to him quarterly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)47,(b)78,(c)125. 
It is difficult to give a precise answer to this question. Some occupations have been added, deleted or varied over the period concerned. There have been variations according to regions. 
The honourable member has received lists of approved occupations since March 1 976. 1 have arranged for copies of the lists for March and October 1975 to be sent to him. The changes in listings can be determined from those lists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) 37,406 males and (b) 33,300 females. 
Separate statistics of males and females are unavailable, however 596 applications for Australian citizenship were refused because of the applicant's insufficient knowledge of English. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Use of the fund has fluctuated and it is difficult to identify any trend. The amounts lent over the past two years, and for the first 9 months of the current financial year are shown in (4). 
Yes. The total permitted indebtedness of an individual is $25 if more than one advance is made. 
Loans are made only to migrants within the first two years after their arrival in emergency situations where no other alternative forms of relief are available. 
1975-76, $532; 1976-77, $319; 1977-78, $615. 
The fund is not a program as the honourable member suggests. Authorised social workers are permitted to keep a small float to provide loans to migrants in emergency situations where no other assistance is immediately available. The Department of Social Security has the chief Commonwealth responsibility for the payment of cash benefits. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs does not see itself as a provider of cash relief and does not intend to take up such a role. Departmental social workers are encouraged to assist their migrant clients to use general community services and have developed expertise in doing this. My Department considers the fund effective to the extent that it is relevant in the total service context. 
The fund is currently being reviewed. 
The matters referred to by the honourable member fall within my portfolio. The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Complete statistics are not maintained on the number of Taiwanese passport holders who travel to 
Australia on Letters of Authority. The Australian Commission in Hong Kong deals with most of the applications lodged by Taiwanese seeking entry to Australia. The Australian Commission in Hong Kong issued Letters of Authority in respect of Taiwanese as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
26 Chilean refugees arrived in Australia during 1977. 
2,184 Vietnamese refugees arrived in 1977, of whom 867 arrived on small boats. 
Timorese evacuees are not recognised as refugees. No Timorese evacuees entered Australia from Timor in 1977. However, 209 persons were covered by visas issued following application of relaxed migration criteria to Timorese in Portugal in 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 31 March 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes.  Mr Kouzin  was issued a visa for a stay in Australia of 10 days to enable him to attend the 4th session of the Mixed Soviet-Australian Commission on Trade and Economic Co-operation which commenced in Canberra on 5 April 1978. 
The application by  Mr Kouzin  was considered in the light of what the Government knew of his background. It was decided to grant a visa on the basis of his nomination by the Soviet authorities and in view of his present position in the Soviet scientific field. Regard was had also to the situation that he visited Australia in 1 974 for the initialling of the science agreement between Australia and the USSR. The Mixed Commission meeting which commenced on 5 April 1 978 was arranged under that agreement. 
I noticed certain newspaper reports over the weekend and this morning concerning Australia's intake of refugees. It should be stated that Australia's record in relation to the acceptance of refugees and displaced people over the years has been an enormously good one. It is not often understood that, for instance, last year alone we took displaced people and refugees from over 40 different countries throughout the world. We should not look at the Indo-Chinese refugee problem in isolation. Australia has at the moment and has had over the years a continuing response to these tragic situations. I was very depressed to read a newspaper report which suggested that VicePresident Mondale would somehow place some pressure on Australia in relation to its attitude towards the acceptance of Indo-Chinese refugees. I shall quote a question posed to  Mr Mondale.  He was asked: 
Do you feel Australia due to its past involvement in IndoChina and its geographic position within Asia has some kind of moral duty to take more refugees? 

 Mr Mondale replied: 
We think that the Australian Government has been quite responsive to this problem. 
Honourable members should note his next comment. He said: 
If all governments had been as responsive, I think we would not have nearly the problem we have now. And we have been in close consultation with the Australian Government for some time on this- no question that the issue will come up- we will be discussing the issue. 
We have been discussing the issue. I am pleased to say that I believe that the approach of the United States and our approach are in broad general agreement. 
I have seen translations of reports from a number of ethnic newspapers along these lines and I make it absolutely clear to the editors of those newspapers and to the community as a whole that I have not put forward any such proposals, nor do I intend to do so. There is no suggestion that I would seek to prevent the migration to Australia of people who meet Australia's immigration requirements but who cannot speak English. I am very conscious, as other people have been, of the importance of English language ability in successful settlement. In fact, on 21 April this year, at a meeting between me and State Ministers concerned with immigration, a joint statement was issued which drew attention to the fact that English language ability was an important factor in successful settlement. These reports that I have seen circulating in ethnic newspapers are totally unfounded. I am very glad of the opportunity to put that furphy at rest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Administrative Review Council wrote to my Department on 24 December 1 976 seeking information of the type described in Appendix III of the Council's First Annual Report. A reply was sent to the Council on 1 8 March 1977. 
There are no tribunals operating within the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs nor under legislation administered by it. However, Section 1 4 of the Migration Act 1958 provides for a Hearing by a Commissioner in circumstances prescribed by that section if a potential deportee so elects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2), (3) and (4)- 
There have been reports from the Indo-China area concerning the potential number of people leaving Vietnam per medium of small boats. Figures available to us show that arrivals in Malaysia and Thailand over the last month number over 3,000. That is a rapid escalation above the numbers arriving in previous months. As far as I am aware there is no indication of any diminution in that rate of efflux from Vietnam. Added to this, of course, there are still continuing movements of refugees from Laos and Cambodia. 
It should not be thought that those people making unauthorised arrivals in Australia, largely arriving at Darwin, have not been subject to Australian immigration laws; they have. They have not travelled in an authorised fashion but certainly they are subject to all the immigration laws and procedures as soon as they arrive. The Government is particularly conscious of the quite understandable disquiet of people in the area itself- in fact, all over Australia- about the possibility of the introduction of exotic plant or animal diseases. Therefore the most stringent quarantine health checks are carried out. The refugees are interviewed in great depth to make absolutely certain that they are what they claim to be, that is, refugees. In fact, as people know, already one person who claimed to be a refugee and who turned out to be an Indonesian who hitched a ride on a boat going through the Indonesian area has been sent back to Indonesia. Also, in Fanny Bay gaol in Darwin there are some crew members of a vessel against whom serious allegations have been made regarding the nature of their acquisition and control of the vessel. 
I would not want it thought for a moment that Australia's immigration laws are being circumvented in any way by these arrivals. As the honourable member says, there is a danger that the number attempting to come to Australia in this way may escalate. Australia has set out on a two-pronged approach to this problem. Firstly, we seek to internationalise it by seeking agreement from more countries throughout the world to resettle the refugees in Thailand and Malaysia. It is unfair to expect any one country to accept the full burden of refugee resettlement. This massive problem will not be overcome until a greater international effort is mounted to resolve this present situation. Secondly, we would hope that governments in the area would cooperate with Australian authorities to delay the vessels for a short period to enable the Australian authorities to interview people on board the ships and put them through the process of selection in those countries. Finally, the United States of America and Australia are co-operating very closely in these matters. The United States has announced that it is preparing to accept another 25,000 refugees and a number of those will be people who have come to be known as boat people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Fairbridge Society of London has been associated with child migration to Australia for over 60 years. The Society now maintains two centres in Australia for the reception and care of children up to 15 years of age. One centre is at Pinjarra in Western Australia, the other at Craters in South Australia. For the greater part of this period the scheme related to the entry of unaccompanied children for whom special resettlement could be undertaken. 
Since 1957 the Society has cared for the children of migrating single parents (widows, widowers and others) until the parent has become established in the community to the point of being able to become reunited. During this time parents can visit and maintain contact with their children. 
Single parent families wishing to migrate approach the Fairbridge Society in London which submits details of suitable applicants to the Migration Branch of Australia House. Applicants judged to be acceptable for consideration under the single parent arrangement then have to meet migrant settlement criteria including health and character requirements. 
The Society undertakes to arrange private accommodation and seek employment on behalf of parents admitted as migrants. 
Approved single parent families contribute $150.00 towards the cost of assisted passages. 
(a) Yes. 
Major-General W. T. Campbell, C.B.E. recently retired. The New Director and Secretary is  Mr I.  F. S. Vincent C.M.G. who was British Consul-General in Melbourne from 1973 to 1976. 
Yes. 
See question ( 1 ) In addition, the Commonwealth pays a per capita arrival and equipment allowance for each child up to a maximum of $200.00 for the first twelve months based on completed months of residence at the Society's centres. 
(a) 1974-75 Parents 32, Children 98; (b) 1975-76 Parents 62, Children 151; (c) 1976-77 Parents 79, Children 157. 
A farming property, 'Pinjarra'in Western Australia, is owned by the Fairbridge Society. 
The children reside at the farm where Fairbridge Society staff care for them. 
Average 4-5 months. Minimum one month. Maximum 1 8 months. 
School-age children attend school during the week. Under staff supervision they make their own beds and assist with household cleaning. Older children also assist in day to day activities on the farm 
Fairbridge arrivals are classified as 'individual cases considered on humanitarian grounds where special reception and after-care facilities are available in Australia. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The conditions applying to the entry into Australia of  Mr Edward  Tseng were similar to those normally imposed on such entrants by the Governments of Canada and Japan which do not recognise the regime of Taiwan. As the United States has diplomatic relations with Taiwan, the conditions applying to the entry of holders of Taiwanese passports to that country are different from those applying in Australia. 
The Australian Government reserves the right to refuse entry to a person having identifiably close links with the regime of Taiwan. One of the factors taken into account in determining close linkage with that regime is membership of the Kuomintang. 
and (5) Communist party membership, when known, would not automatically debar a person from receiving a visa to visit Australia. Each such case would be considered on its merits. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Yes.  Mr Horta's  application for a visa was refused because of his position as a senior representative of Fretilin, whose claims to be the government of East Timor are not recognised by the Australian Government. 
Yes. 
My Department has no record of a visit in 1977 by  Mr Alfred  Urbanski 
Tollas is the pen-name of  Mr Tibor  Kecskesi and he visited Australia in 1977 at the invitation of the TransylvaniaHungarian Association.  Mr Kecskesi  does not purport to represent any government and therefore no basis exists for refusing him entry on such grounds. 
Not in present circumstances. 
The Government is not considering the introduction of any written English test for citizenship applications. The rest of the question is too nonsensical to spend any time on it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1 July 1977 and 30 April 1978, 4322 IndoChinese refugees have entered Australia. This figure includes 1016 boat people who have arrived here without prior authority. 
With the exception of the 1016 boat people, who have still to have their status determined, all of the abovementioned arrivals were given migrant entry visas and have permanent resident status in Australia. 
This information is not available at present. However, the Government has approved a survey of the settlement experiences of Indo-Chinese refugees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Records held by the Department of Foreign Affairs show that Morris Glickman was issued Australian passport K.725578 in June 1977 and Igal Makler was issued Australian passport H659873 in July 1974. Both passports are valid for 5 years from the date of their issue. Messrs Glickman and Makler utilised these passports when they travelled overseas on 25 January 1978 and 7 April 1978 respectively. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The advisory bodies and authorities which I have appointed are: 
Australian Population and Immigration Council (APIC) 
Australian Ethnic Affairs Council (AEAC) 
National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters (NAATI) 
National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council (NEBAC) 
e ) State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Committees in N.S.W. and Victoria. 
) The members of these bodies are: 
Australian Population and Immigration CouncilThe  Hon.  M. J. R. MacKellar  (Chairman), M.P., Professor W. D. Borrie, O.B.E., Dr L. A. Brodribb, Dr D. R. Cox, Mr J. A. Gobbo, Mr R. J. Hawke, Professor W. P. Hogen, Mr J. A. Kiosoglous, Mr G. Lapaine, Professor J. D. B. Miller, Dr G. M. Neutze, Mr George Polites, C.M.G., M.B.E., Mr J. B. Reid, Dr A. Richardson, Mr H. J. Souter, A.M., Professor R. J. Walsh, A.O., O.B.E. 
Australian Ethnic Affairs Council- Professor J. Zubrzycki, M.B.E.  (Chairman), Mr H. G. Ackaoui, Mr L. H. Colbourne, Mrs E. M. Di Stefano, Mr M. Dontschuk Aid. W. Jegorow M.B.E., Mr E. I. Kainu, Dr S. Kaldor, Mrs T. H. Karabatsas, Mr U. Larobina, Mr B. M. Noakes, Mr G. Papadopoulos, Mr G. N. Pappas, Rev. G. Sakellariou, M.B.E., Mr E. G. Salomon, Mr G. V. Scomparin, Professor C. G. Veliz, Mr A. M. Vella, Mrs H. E. Verolme, Mr R. Y. Wing, Mr E. A. Witts, Mr C. V. Zaccariotto, Mrs J. Zammit, M.B.E. 
National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters (NAATI)-  Sir George  Cartland, C.M.G.  (Chairman), Professor Leonie J. Kramer, O.B.E., Mr M. Brandle, Professor J. Frodsham, Mr A. J. Garrick, Mr E. Gauntlett, Mr C. Kiriloff, Dr P. Martin, Mr V. Menart, Mr R. Rubichi, Dr G. H. Strauss. 
National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory CouncilSir Arvi Parbo  (Chairman), Professor M. Aroney, Mr A. Cerantonio, Mrs M. Gordon, Mr E. Incekara, Mr I. G. Mykyta, Mr R. Lord, Mr B. L. Murray. 
(i) SEBAC in N.S.W.-Mr P. Bosi  (Chairman), Rev. Fr. N. Mansour (Deputy Chairman), Mr J. A. Birzulis, Mr P. G. Darmo, Mrs H. Eizenberg, Mr R. Gonzalez, Mrs L. Gustin, M.B.E., Mr A. Hee, Mr U. Honold, Mrs O. Katchan, Mr G. Kennedy, Mr S. Kerkysharian, Mr V. Lusic, Mr G. Messaris, Mr S. Pappas (Fr. Stephanos), Mr S.  Pejsachowicz,  Mr J.  Seisun,  Mr R.  Treister,  Mr I.  D. Vickovich 
(ii) SEBAC in Victoria-Mr W. Schauble  (Chairman), Mr P. Van Hest (Deputy Chairman), Mr V. J. Alekna, Mr J. S. Attard, Mrs M. Aydin, Mrs K. Bitsis, Mr A. Bloch, Ms H. E. Bogdan, Mrs A. Ceferin, Ms I. C. Csar Mr E. Djoumayia, Mr A. E. Doronila, Mr L. Kong, Mr C. J. Lancucki, Mr C. Melidonis, Mr N. Mirza, Mr 0. Obeid Mr G. Perissinotto, Mr O. Sandrin 
(a) APIC- The Council meets twice a year. The date of the last meeting was 3 April 1 978. 
AEAC- There is usually a meeting of the Council or one of the Committees on an average of once a fortnight. The last meeting of the Council was held on 1 8 April 1 978. 
NAATI- The full Authority usually meets every six weeks. The last meeting of the Authority was held on 1 7 March 1978. 
NEBAC- Meetings are usually held monthly. The last meeting was held on Friday, 3 1 March 1 978. 
SEBAC in New South Wales and Victoria-The SEBAC for New South Wales met for the first time on 4 May 1978 and at that meeting it was decided that Committee meetings would be held on a weekly basis for the first four weeks and thereafter on a monthly basis. The most recent meeting was held on 19 May 1978. The first meeting for the SEBAC for Victoria is scheduled for 22 May 1978. No decision has been made as yet on the frequency of meetings of this body. 
The appropriations for APIC, AEAC and NAATI for 1977-78 are $43,000, $32,500 and $29,000 respectively. The Special Broadcasting Service is responsible for funding the NEBAC and the SEBACs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary estimates indicate that migrant arrivals during the first nine months of 1977-78 were made up as follows: 
16,1 18 person; for family reunion. 
5,95 1 persons as refugees. 
3,206 persons as specially approved cases consisting principally of those approved on humanitarian grounds, together with 'patrials' (UK citizens who are the children or grandchildren of an Australian-born person) and persons having a long and close association with Australia. 
7, 1 77 persons from New Zealand, and 
23,964 persons who were workers possessing skills in short supply (and the dependents of such workers). 
Departmental Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence  (Question No. 267) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The listings given below are ranked in the order of the numbers of settler arrivals from each of the countries concerned for the three month period prior to the given date. 
31 March 1978-1 The United Kingdom and Ireland, 2 New Zealand, 3 Malaysia (arrivals included Indo-Chinese refugees), 4 South Africa, 5 Hong Kong. 
31 March 1975-1 The United Kingdom and Ireland, 2 New Zealand, 3 Yugoslavia, 4 U.S.A. (arrivals included a large number of school teachers recruited in the U.S.A. by State Governments during this period of time), 5 South Africa. 
31 March 1970-1 The United Kingdom and Ireland, 2 Yugoslavia, 3 Austria (arrivals included Refugees from Czechoslovakia), 4 Greece, 5 Italy. 
31 March 1965-1 The United Kingdom and Ireland, 2 Greece, 3 Italy, 4 Malta, 5 Federal Republic of Germany. 
Sources: (b) (c) and (d) Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Quarterly Statistical Summaries, (a) Provisional count of incoming passenger cards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have read the report in question, and as I stated in a press release on 8 December, 1977, there has been no change in Australia's refugee policy. Australia will not return genuine refugees to their country of origin. I also stated in that Press release that the Minister for Transport had assured me that reports which would suggest a change in the Government's attitude were a misrepresentation and distortion of his comments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In Australia: 
100,(2)$15,120. 
Overseas: 
(1)118, (2) $13,459. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am certainly aware of the concern of the Greek community about the matter raised by the honourable gentleman. 
As I said in the House on 7 April in answer to a similar question, and also in a press release on 1 8 April, prosecutions directed at individuals do not imply condemnation of a whole community. Any emphasis or stress laid on the ethnic background of the people involved is to be regretted. 
I welcome this opportunity of again giving the assurance that the Australian Government thinks highly of the significant contribution made by people of Greek origin to Australia. It is quite unfair to blame a whole community because a small minority of that community may have been involved in something unlawful. 
I did see reports, particularly in the Melbourne  Age,  of remarks which were attributed to my colleague the Minister for Productivity. Naturally, we were in contact about those remarks. My colleague informs me that the impression given by the report particularly in the  Age  was most significantly different from the tenor of the remarks that he made on that occasion. As I understand the situation, my colleague was referring to mass migration of the sort which took place in the 1950s and particularly in the late 1960s when a large number of unskilled and semi-skilled people came to Australia. I have never advocated an immigration program which at this stage would result in a large number of semi-skilled and unskilled people being brought to Australia. If the honourable member discusses the matter with my colleague I think he will find that my colleague and I are in very great agreement as to the sort of immigration program Australia needs at this stage. 
I must say that I find it difficult to imagine the honourable member being embarrassed in any circumstances. Apart from that, there are a couple of points that I would like to make clear. In Australia, as in all other countries, there are at any one time a number of people who come into the category of illegal immigrants- they have overstayed their visas or they may have entered illegally- and a number of them seek the advice of members of parliament. I get a great number of representations about this situation from honourable members on both sides of the House. However, leaving that aside for the moment, let me make one thing absolutely clear: The people who have made trips to Australia in small boats are not illegal immigrants. They have made unauthorised trips to Australia but as soon as they arrive they are processed in the normal way and are given valid entry permits, so they are not illegal immigrants. There is a real distinction between those unauthorised arrivals and people within the community who do not hold valid entry permits. 
Many people would seek a further amnesty and I have considered this matter very deeply. Let me just put the arguments to the honourable member and the House. A great number of people- more than 300,000 people in any one year- in the world at present seek to come to Australia as migrants and they go through the normal, proper channels. There are people within Australia who seek to circumvent the normal migration procedures and thereafter seek to gain advantage from that. I think we should not advantage people who have broken the law as against those people who seek to stick within the law. The amnesty in 1976 was announced for a particular reason, the reason being that the easy visa scheme which was brought in under the Labor Administration - 
It was a tragedy; the honourable member for Newcastle is absolutely right. I am grateful for his interjection. It was a tragedy. The amnesty in 1976 was brought in to deal with that particular situation. I made it absolutely clear at the time that there would not be a further amnesty. I have considered representations put to me on a number of occasions. If there is any hint of a future amnesty the word gets overseas very quickly and we find unscrupulous people overseas advocating and encouraging people to visit Australia and not tell the truth about their visit in the hope that there will be a further amnesty. I want to make it absolutely clear that I am not considering a further amnesty and I do not see the reason for one at present. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications for the year ended December 1977. 
The material included in the publication  For the Ethnic Media  is drawn from official publications and statements made by the Government and Government Ministers. I believe also there are inclusions from official reports. I am not aware of the inclusion in that publication of any material which has originated from members of the Opposition. 
As my colleague says, there is nothing worth while coming from the Opposition. I have not given consideration to including in the publication official news releases by members of the Opposition. I will give consideration to it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Preliminary figures for settler arrivals during the first seven months of 1977-78 indicate that 40.9 per cent of migrants were in the occupationally eligible category. This is based on the count of persons who on arrival carried visas indicating that they were selected at Australian overseas posts as coming within occupational eligibility criteria compared with the total number of settlers arriving who either had visas permitting residence or in the case of those not requiring visas (e.g. New Zealand citizens) indicated intention to settle. 
Of the 40.9 per cent or 18,880 persons, 31.9 per cent (6,026) were stated to be workers in occupations on the approved occupations list, 9.6 per cent (1,815) were accompanying workers (family members), and th' remaining 58.5 per cent ( 1 1 ,039) were classified as dependents of the principal breadwinners. 
Nominations from employers for 1,862 workers were forwarded for overseas post action during the period 1 July 1977 to 21 April 1978. Of these 1,032 were listed on the approved list of occupations for migration. Details of arrivals under these arrangements are not readily available. In other instances migrants may arrange employment before arrival in Australia. 
and (5) It is administratively not possible to monitor the movement and employment history of all individual migrants following arrival in Australia. 
The situation of assisted migrants in Commonwealth Hostels admitted on the basis of occupational skills showed a total of 3 16 awaiting initial placement at 28 April 1 978, compared with 354 at 7 April 1978. Of the 316 some 131 had been waiting less than 2 weeks and 27 were seeking alternative placement, having been placed previously in employment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department does not maintain information of the kind sought. To obtain it would require considerable research which I would not regard as justified. Moreover, it would require the co-operation and agreement of all officers in the Department. Some staff members might well regard enquiries of this nature as an invasion of their privacy. As employment in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is determined by the capacity of officers to meet the normal requirements for employment in the Commonwealth Public Service, a requirement that a person should or should not be a first generation migrant or should or should not be from a particular ethnic background would appear to be in conflict with the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. 
All of the information is not readily available in the form sought. I shall provide information to the honourable member when it is obtained. 
As regards the ethnic background of officers, see answer to ( 1 ) and (2) above. I am able to inform the honourable member that all officers at Class 1 1 level or above in the Ethnic Affairs Branch are graduates and have qualifications and experience relevant to the functions they have to perform. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The 'planned' component of the immigration intake is restricted to those migrants who possess professional, technical or trade skills recognised in Australia and for whom it is considered there is a strong and continuing demand. Other categories eligible for entry are confined broadly to family reunion Le. spouses and dependent children, parents and fiance(e)s of Australian residents and refugees. For further details, I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his question on notice No. 64 1 , Hansard of 3 May 1978, pages 1 1 74-5. 
The criteria for the entry of migrants being admitted on occupational grounds are based on labour market assessments prepared by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Australian Bureau of Statistics and Commonwealth Employment Service statistics are used. They are supplemented by a labour market intelligence network which collects extensive information from a wide range of sources. Those selected under occupational criteria are selected against detailed labour market knowledge of the particular occupation in question. 
Australia/China Council (Question No. 1171) 
I am glad that the honourable member has asked this question because it gives me an opportunity to comment on what is a most significant matter. The Government has accepted the recommendations that government support for Good Neighbour Councils be phased out over a two-year period. It will be replaced by new arrangements which expand the opportunites for community involvement in the development and management of migrant assistance programs.  Mr Speaker,  as you would personally know, the work of the Good Neighbour Councils has been of immense value over the last 26 years. They have been of tremendous help to so many newcomers who have made this country their home. I would be the first to place on record my appreciation of the work that so many thousands of volunteers have put in over these years. 
In the new arrangements there will be important roles for all people within the community who have the welfare of migrants at heart. In answer to a part of the honourable gentleman's question, I may say that I have already been in communication with the Presidents of the Good Neighbour Councils, inviting them to a meeting to be held later this month to discuss the ramifications of the Government's acceptance of the recommendations in the Galbally Committee's report. The new arrangements will require the recruitment of full time specialists, who might well come from the expert ranks of the Good Neighbour Council movement. 
Vietnamese or any IndoChinese refugees coming to Australia will be accommodated in hostels around Australia. I have not taken up with any particular Minister the location of refugees in the Glebe estate. I have not heard of that suggestion. 
I have not heard of even that suggestion. 
I have seen reports that an organisation is fitting out a ship which, as I understand it, is to assist refugee vessels in the South China Sea. Again as I understand it, the objective of the ship is not to take on board the people on the refugee boats but to provide them with assistance, perhaps in the form of fuel or food or water, to enable them to continue their voyage within that area. This proposition was canvassed with me in Canberra a few weeks ago and at that stage I put the proposition that the people concerned with the project could not see a situation emerging where Australia would automatically allow the entry of any people that such a vessel happened to pick up. It was pointed out to me that it was not the intention of the vessel to pick up refugees but to assist them on their voyage. 
As to the other matters contained in the honourable member's question, I cannot give an indication of the ethnic composition of the refugee outflow from Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. The Australian Government's attitude towards refugees is not based on ethnic composition; it is based on the fact or otherwise of refugee status. At the present time I believe that the ethnic composition of people from Vietnam coming to Australia through the accepted channels, as well as those who have come by boats arriving in Darwin, is about 40 per cent. As I have said, the attitude of the Government is not predicated on the ethnic composition of the refugees, it is an humanitarian response to the situation in which these people find themselves. 
I should like to point out that Australia's record in relation to the acceptance of refugees in the long term, where we have taken well over 300,000 people since the end of the Second World War and successfully resettled them in 
Australia, and in the short term, where we have provided a lead to other countries in our attitude towards the problems of the unfortunate people in Indo-China, is such that we as a nation can be very proud of the fact that we have demonstrated in a positive and tangible way an attitude that can provide an example for other countries. I hope that other countries throughout the world will play their part in helping to solve what is a tragic human problem. 
I cannot give the honourable gentleman the detailed replies that he seeks because the recognition was on a particular date and I would have to investigate the numbers since that date, but I will give him a reply at a later date. In general terms I would have to say that the Government's attitude towards refugees stands in marked contrast to the attitude of the previous Administration which was in power in this country between 1972 and 1975. That has been demonstrated by our attitude not only towards people from East Timor but also towards people from the Indo-Chinese region and in fact last year towards people from over 40 different countries. We are working assiduously to bring about the reunification of families from East Timor. I hope to be in a position to make a much more definitive statement about that in the very near future. 
by leaveOnly a handful of issues has, in the last few months, attracted more persistent speculation than the prospect of a revised immigration policy. Few issues have attracted so wide a spectrum of sentiment, from the extreme of the virtual open door to the absolute of the door nailed firmly shut. The question of immigration is rarely argued in detached terms. This is because each of us has a personal stake in the future of Australia which we see through our own frames of reference. The issue of Indo-Chinese refugees has brought all Australians face to face with the reality that no longer are we insulated and isolated from immigration questions of immense significance. The Government has been conscious of diverse attitudes and has, in its deliberations, tried to find that consensus from which democratic government draws its strength. Immigration ought to be above partisan political polemics, and largely it has been. I credit Opposition spokesmen with a concern for people equally as profound as that of the Government. The issue between us has never been the fact of immigration but the quantum and nature of intake. We have shown a common belief in a policy of non-discrimination. We have been at one on the principle of accepting refugees though some would put emphasis on one source, some on another. 
I now state policies and programs determined by the Government as a framework for Australia's population development. Since 1971, we have seen a portentous change in the demographic factors which determine the growth and composition of Australia's population. The number of births has been falling steeply. Australia's fertility level is now below long-term replacement. Australia's immigrant intakes have fallen to post-war record lows. Since 1974 immigration policies have been very tightly defined. Migrant entry has largely been limited to nominated immediate family members, refugees, persons travelling under Australia's bilateral arrangements with New Zealand, and a very narrowly-defined group of workers with occupational skills in continuing demand in Australia. Many people have seen it as anomalous that Australia, as a nation built on continuing migration, has so drastically changed its course. There are many people in Australia with relatives overseas with whom they would wish to be reunited in Australia. While there has been a shortage of hard data on which to reach firm conclusions regarding the economic effects of population growth and immigration, many have seen a link between post-war economic development and large-scale immigration. 
It was against this background that, in 1976, the Australian Population and Immigration Council prepared a Green Paper on 'Immigration Policies and Australia's Population'. The tabling of the Green Paper in Parliament in March 1977, signalled great public discussion on the issues it raised. There has been extensive consultation with State governments. Each State considered the Green Paper and presented its own views in a submission to the Commonwealth. The issues were discussed at conferences of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs over the past year. There is a remarkable degree of unanimity among the States on the importance of a continued positive approach to population building through immigration, and on related policy measures. 
Submissions have been received from individuals and organisations around Australia. A community consultation program has provided individuals and groups with the opportunity of presenting and discussing their views in seminars and with a task force of departmental officers. There have been talks with union leaders, representatives of industry and commerce, and government authorities in all States and Territories. To all, I record my thanks and those of the Government for their contribution. There has never been, in Australia, so comprehensive a review of immigration. Not everybody has offered an opinion but everyone has been invited to do so. In the main, those with strongly-held views have taken the opportunity to advance those views. The importance of looking beyond our immediate problems was frequently stressed. Though the Government must give priority to resolving the prevailing economic difficulties facing Australia, it believes that population and immigration policies lay the foundations for tomorrow. 
For the information of honourable members I present a supplementary report of the National Population Inquiry entitled 'Population and Australia- Recent Demographic Trends and Their Implications'. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) This figure is unavailable because citizens of Commonwealth countries are not required by law to register on arrival in Australia, in the same way as other settlers. However, the result of the 1976 Census which is likely to become available early in 1979, should provide this information. 
As at 31 December 1977, it was estimated that 400,320 aliens 1 6 years of age and over were residentially qualified by virtue of 3 years' residence in Australia, to apply for the grant of Australian Citizenship, but had not done so. 
67,429 applications for citizenship were received in Australia. 
The average processing time from the date of receipt of application until the date of approval is 13 weeks. 
The average time from date of approval until the actual granting of citizenship varies considerably. Where applicants opt to have citizenship conferred at a ceremony held by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the average dme would be only several weeks. However, where citizenship is conferred at ceremonies arranged by Local Government Authorities, the time is governed by the frequency of ceremonies held by the individual Local Government Authority. Some Local Government Authorities may have only one or two ceremonies a year. 
1,273. 
(a)(1) Unavailable. However, the table below sets out the estimated number of aliens, by nationality, 1 6 years of age and over, who were residentially qualified by virtue of 3 years residence in Australia to apply for the grant of Australian citizenship, but who had not done so as at 31 December 1977: 
Nationality No. 
Albanian............. 1 80 
Argentinian............ 1,800 
Austrian............. 7,420 
Belgian.............. 1,340 
Bolivian.............. 60 
Brazilian............. 470 
Bulgarian............. 230 
Burmese............. 460 
Chilean.............. 3,350 
Chinese.............. 1,350 
Colombian............. 370 
Cuban.............. 70 
Czechoslovak............ 2,720 
Danish.............. 3,870 
Dutch.............. 29,180 
Ecuadorian............ 480 
Egyptian (UAR)........... 2,010 
Estonian............. 360 
Filipino.............. 570 
Finnish.............. 4,900 
French.............. 6,220 
German.............. 29,920 
Greek.............. 52,730 
Hungarian............. 2,660 
Indonesian............. 40 
Iranian.............. 820 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) It is not presently possible to provide details of new positions. An urgent study of the matters raised is continuing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the honourable member to  Senator Withers'  reply to Senate Question No. 1116 which appeared in  Hansard,  9 November 1 977, ( pages 2397-8 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Each quarter after consultation between my Department and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations a list is drawn up of skilled occupations for which the supply of local labour is inadequate to fill demand. This list indicates whether the degree of unsatisfied demand is moderate or high, the position in each State and as between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. 
Nominations on behalf of, or applications from, migrants in occupations not on this list warranting special consideration are considered on a case-by-case basis by occupational review groups established in each State. 
A precise measure of this is not available. As skilled workers selected overseas are recruited only for occupations in which vacancies exist, the number of vacancies filled should be approximated by the number of skilled workers arriving. 
) There is no specific information on this. Vacancies may exist in an area where there is a shortage of labour, or to which available skilled labour is unable or unwilling to travel from localities where the availability of labour may exceed the number of job opportunities. Moreover, the situation changes frequently and it would not be productive to give precise numerical assessments of skilled labour shortfalls at a particular time. The approved occupations list for migration is based on ongoing qualitative assessments of the future labour demand for various occupations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Section 14(l)(c)ofthe Citizenship Act requires an applicant for a Certificate of Australian Citizenship to have been resident in Australia continuously throughout the period of one year immediately preceding the date of the grant of the certificate. Absences from Australia of up to three months are not generally considered sufficient to break the required period of continuous residence. 
Statistics are not available. 
Factors taken into account when considering cases involving periods of absences in excess of three months relate to the total length of the applicants residence in Australia, any other periods of absence, the reasons for the absence during the immediately preceding twelve months and the interests retained in Australia by way of family, home and business while away. 
In my answer to the honourable member's question I advised in respect to question 3 that all of the information was not readily available in the form sought and that I would provide the information when it was obtained. The information is now available and the answer to question 3 of the honourable member's question is: 
As at 1 January 1 978 there were no women employed at the second division level and the class 1 1 level. There were 2 1 women employed at the class 6 level and 283 women employed in the 4th division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I do not have responsibility for any statutory authority, corporation or undertaking. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Question No. 1361) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The table below shows the total settler intake for each of the fiscal years 1971-72 to 1976-77 and the six month period from 1 July 1977 to 3 1 December 1977 together with the numbers of persons granted assisted passages and the corresponding percentages of the total intake for the periods of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No metal or glass waste is generated by my Department. I understand that my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services in his answer to question No. 1437 will deal with the recycling of waste paper by Commonwealth Government bodies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Departments and Authorities currently participating in this scheme are: 
Departments 
Aboriginal Affairs 
Administrative Services 
Attorney-General's Department 
Business and Consumer Affairs 
Capital Territory 
Construction 
Defence 
Education 
Employment and Industrial Relations 
Environment, Housing and Community Development 
Finance 
Foreign Affairs 
Health 
Home Affairs 
Industry and Commerce 
National Development 
The Northern Territory 
Post and Telecommunications 
Primary Industry 
Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Productivity 
Science 
Social Security 
Trade and Resources 
Transport 
Department of the Treasury Department of Veterans ' Affairs 
Other Organisations 
Australian Bureau of Statistics 
Australian Electoral Office 
Australian Taxation Office 
National Capital Development Commission 
Public Service Board 
All ethnic liaison officers appointed are senior officers and at least one from each Department or Authority is a second division officer. 
The duties of an ethnic liaison officer are to give effect to the purposes set out in the Prime Minister's statement of 1 March 1978 when he announced the Government's intention to implement the ethnic liaison officer scheme. 
The statistics sought are not available. 
No. 
Migrants: Capital inflow and outflow (Question No. 1496) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Accurate and detailed statistics on the flow of funds attributable to migrants and former migrants are not available. Estimates by the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that in 1976-77 at least $276 million was brought into Australia by migrants. This represents an average of $3,892 for each settler, including children, arriving that year. 
It should be noted, however, that the above figures include only those funds identified by the Australian banking system as being directly attributable to migrants. I understand that, for example, these figures exclude the proceeds of the sale of real estate previously owned overseas in cases where the sale takes place after the owner's arrival in Australia. Also excluded from these figures is the considerable value of tangible assets which migrants bring with them. 
Figures for outward movement of capital are not available in the form requested by the honourable member. Figures for outward transfers include funds transferred not only by former immigrants but also by Australians emigrating or intending to reside overseas for 1 2 months or longer. 
Control of Insects in Grain and Seed Storages (Question No. 1498) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament as ordinary members. I preside as Chairman at plenary sessions of the Australian Population and Immigration Council, an advisory body which I have reconstituted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One thousand six hundred and forty-one as of 8 August 1978. 
The breakdown is: 777 adult males; 307 adult females; 527 children. Three-quarters are under the age of 25 years and about 4 per cent over the age of 50 years. 
Vietnam and Cambodia. 
Twenty-one persons. Immediate arrangements were made for appropriate medical treatment. 
5 ) and ( 6 ) Separate records are not kept for refugees who nominate relatives under the family re-union category. 
Yes. 
There is a wide range of occupational groups. Farmers and fishermen make up around 27 per cent of the total; mechanics, technicians and apprentices made up about 6 per cent; government employees are about 4 per cent and housewives around 6 per cent. Other occupations (each less than 2 per cent) total 17 per cent. Students and pre-school children make up the largest category of about 40 per cent. 
All of the boat arrivals came from Vietnam. The Cambodians were in Vietnam before coming to Australia. Some had entered boat camps in Malaysia before joining boats to come to Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is not responsible for the operation of any staff canteens. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In the present tight budgetary situation it has been necessary for the Government to consider avenues for raising additional revenue. The tax on departures will make a useful contribution in this regard. Many countries have taxes similar to the departure tax proposed for Australia. Overseas visitors to this country, and many Australians travelling abroad, will have had experience with payments of this kind. The level and form of the departure tax have been designed to have a minimal effect on the Australian tourist industry and on overseas travel by Australians. 
The tax is not expected to have any impact on the number of persons visiting Australia or on the number of Australians travelling abroad. 
I can assure honourable members that the Government is fully aware of the need to ensure that the imposition and collection of this tax does not cause difficulties to the transport and the travel industries. To ensure that the introduction of this tax is a smooth and co-operative exercise, my Department will meet representatives of the international transport and travel industries in this country. This will be done in the near future. These discussions will develop arrangements to avoid inconvenience to travellers leaving Australia after introduction of the tax. 
The objective of the Departure Tax Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech on 15 August, to introduce a departure tax in respect of persons departing from Australia and to establish mechanisms for the collection of that tax. The Departure Tax Bill imposes a tax in respect of the departure of persons from Australia and fixes the rate at $10. 1 commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Departure Tax Collection Bill provides for the collection of the tax to be imposed by the Departure Tax Bill 1978, which I have just introduced. This Bill provides that the Act will come into operation on the day on which the departure tax comes into operation. This is a date to be fixed by proclamation. I would expect that to be within a short time after the passage of the legislation. The travel industry and travellers will be given adequate notice of the date upon which the legislation comes into operation. It is intended to develop arrangements for payment of the tax which will not unduly inconvenience travellers. I will announce details of the method of collection after discussions with the travel industry. 
The Departure Tax Collection Bill provides for the exemption of certain limited categories of persons from paying the tax. The specified categories are children under the age of 1 8 years; crew members; accredited diplomats; persons who arrive in Australia but are deemed under the Migration Act 1958 not to have entered Australia, that is, persons who remain at the airport and persons who do not disembark from a ship; persons covered by the Status of Forces Agreements with the United States and Papua New Guinea; and persons being deported or extradited from Australia. Clause 6 also provides that the Governor-General may by regulation exempt additional persons or classes of persons. 
The Bill provides that the departure tax is to be paid before a person leaves Australia. A person, unless exempt, who does not pay the tax is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a penalty of up to $100. Where a person is convicted of an offence against sub-section 7 (2), a court may also order a person to pay the tax. Clause 13 provides that a statement or averment of the prosecutor or plaintiff that the tax has not been paid is to be prima facie evidence of the matter stated. 
Under the Bill I may appoint as authorised officers, officers of my Department, or officers under the Customs Act or members of the police force of the Commonwealth or a State or Territory. Clause 8 empowers authorised officers to undertake inquiries to establish whether the departure tax has been paid. This clause also empowers authorised officers to prevent the departure from Australia of persons where there are reasonable grounds for believing that the tax payable has not been paid. The Bill provides for offences and specifies penalties in respect of persons who refuse to co-operate with authorised officers in establishing whether any tax payable has been paid. The offences relate to refusal to answer questions or produce documents, false or misleading statements or documents, obstructing or hindering authorised officers and assaulting or threatening authorised officers. 
The Bill provides for refunds in the following circumstances: Where the departure in respect of which tax was paid did not take place; Where the person who paid the tax departed from Australia and returned without entering another country; Where an exempt person has paid the tax in respect of a departure; and where a person is entitled to a refund under the regulations. People who obtain refunds by false pretences will be guilty of an offence and a penalty of $500 has been provided. 
The Bill provides for the Minister to make an arrangement for the payment of the departure tax. It would enable the payment of the tax other than by persons individually at the point and time of departure. The Governor-General is empowered in the legislation to make regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by the Act and, in particular, making provision for refunds and prescribing penalties for offences under the regulations. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The percentage of settler arrivals from each of the major source countries for the three month period prior to the given date are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Applicatons received: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Financial year 1975-76-$37,883.47; financial year 1976-77-53 1,558.62; financial year 1977-78-the information required is not readily available. 
* (Represents salaries for officers on paid leave- only available on a financial year basis as distinct from calendar year.) 
Financial year 1975-76-13,255.75 hours; financial year 1976-77-13,450.50 hours; financial year 1977-78-the information required is not readily available. 
and (4) I draw the honourable member's attention to the information provided in answer to Parliamentary Question No. 1 206,  Hansard  of 1 5 August. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) of the 54 applicants approved for migration under entrepreneur policy up to 30 June 1978, 15 had been granted entry up to 3 1 March 1978. 
The nationality of those granted entry was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary estimates previously given were for the eight months period July 1977 to February 1978 inclusive. Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs preliminary figures on settler arrivals for the twelve months 1 977-78 are: 
1 ) Work Force Status- 
) Occupational Status- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
I am informed that the main source for these statistics is the Reserve Bank foreign exchange records system. Under this system trading and savings banks are asked to record each foreign exchange transaction above a certain value. 
The figures used in the Press release of 6 August 1977 were official estimates provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Since, as indicated in my reply to question No. 1496, they did not include all amounts transferred to Australia by migrants and included amounts transferred overseas by people born in Australia they understated the net gains for the two years concerned by an unknown amount. The point made in my Press statement of 6 August 1977 remains valid. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A principal applicant for migration to Australia being considered in the Independent Category will be screened first against a group of economic and employment factors. The demand in Australia for the applicant's occupation is a critical factor determining employment prospects and therefore economic viability. The occupational demand will be included in this group of factors and will be assessed from the information provided in the list of approved occupations. This factor will provide a high percentage of the points in the total available under the economic and employment section of NUMAS. 
(i) Diamond Driller. Admission is on a firm job offer basis only to South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory. 
Mining Engineer. Admission is on a firm job offer basis only to New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, Tasmania, the Northern Territory and country areas of South Australia. Persons selected under this category must have at least 5 years' practical experience. 
Riggers (Mining). Admission is confined to South Australia and on a firm job offer basis only. 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). The following shows the percentages for these particular occupational groups as they appear in the approved occupations list of 1 4 March 1978:. professional, technical and related workers, 43 per cent clerical, commercial and administrative, 4 percent skilled workers, 47 per cent semi-skilled workers, 1 per cent. 
No unskilled workers were included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The interdepartmental committee was established and first met on 22 September 1977. 
The Departments of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs (Chairman), Foreign Affairs, Attorney-General's, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Health, Employment and Industrial Relations, Business and Consumer Affairs, Primary Industry, Aboriginal Affairs, Social Security, Transport. The Public Service Board is also represented. 
The interdepartmental committee had no specific terms of reference but was established to consider investigations by an Immigration Task Force into the movement of Papua New Guineans into the Torres Strait area and mainland Australia and to make recommendations to Ministers on appropriate courses of action to be taken following the investigations. 
The recommendations of the interdepartmental committee were reported to Ministers recently. 
5 ) This matter has not yet been considered. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure in relation to this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Departure Tax Collection BUI as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
It is certainly not the intention of the Government to harass anybody. This provision gives the authorised officer at least the opportunity to question somebody who may be connected with advice given to intending travellers. As honourable members would understand, many people make their travel arrangements through travel agents. It is not unknown for travel agents to give misleading advice. Hopefully, that will not be the case. This clause covers the contingency where someone else may be required to provide some explanation or to back up someone's story. Certainly there is no intention on the Government's part to harass people. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from  6.1  to  8  p.m. 
Clauses 9 to 1 1- by leave- taken together. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  has not been in the chamber all the afternoon. If he had been he would have heard me make a statement during the consideration of the previous Bill in which I dealt with the amendments that have been moved and are to be moved to the Bill. They deal with the collection of the tax by means of a stamp. They exclude the Territories from the operation of the Bill. These amendments to the Bill are consequential on the Government's decision in relation to those two matters. 
I was interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  The honourable member made a number of points that were made during the second reading debate. He quite properly utilised the opportunity to make those general points during the Committee stage and I do not hold that against him. I would just like to make the point that I understood the honourable member to say that the departure tax would affect the number of people travelling to Australia and we would be better off doing other things. 
Perhaps I misunderstood the honourable member. However, if anyone has the feeling that the tax will affect movements to or from Australia, the best advice that has been conveyed to us is that it will not. The honourable member made a general point that we should all be encouraging more people to visit Australia and to see Australia for themselves. This point was reiterated by a number of speakers during the second reading debate and I find myself in total agreement with it. 
by leaveWhen I delivered the second reading speeches on the Departure Tax Bill and Departure Tax Collection Bill on 24 August 1978, I indicated that I would announce details of the method of collection of the tax at a later date. The Government has decided that tax generally be collected by means of the sale of a stamp to persons other than exempt persons departing from Australia. An amendment to the legislation is now proposed to give effect to that decision. 
The Government has also given consideration to the special position of Australia's external territories and has decided to exclude persons departing from those territories from the requirement to pay departure tax. The amendments will also exclude those who travel to an external territory via another country, provided the stay in the other country is less than seven days. This policy is consistent with the practice of not applying Australian taxes to the external territories. Taxes in the external territories are raised by territory ordinances. An amendment to the legislation to give effect to this decision is now proposed. 
in reply- In drawing this second reading debate on these Bills to a close, I thank those honourable members on both sides of the House who have contributed to the debate. I think we can safely say that the debate has ranged widely. A number of suggestions have been made as to ways in which the tourist industry can be improved. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  drew attention to the purpose of the tax. I point out to him one matter of fact: It is not just an airport departure tax; it applies to all departures from Australia. 
Some of the questions raised by honourable members who contributed to the debate revolved around the question of the collection of the tax. I shall just briefly make clear to the House how the tax will be collected. The method will be by the sale of a tax stamp. This system will include exemption stamps for persons not liable to pay the tax. These tax and exemption stamps will be obtainable from regional offices of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, from Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs booths at airports and major sea ports, from Customs offices at ports where the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs does not have offices and of course at Department of Foreign Affairs passport offices throughout Australia. The stamps will be stuck on or affixed to passenger tickets and, when presented to Customs officials at the departure point, will be cancelled by an over-print stamp showing the passenger as having departed from Australia. This is an important point: If a carrier or an agent should wish to arrange the affixing of a tax stamp to a client's ticket in order to facilitate passenger travel arrangements, stamps will be available for bulk sale from offices of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. This may be particularly useful when agents or carriers are arranging for group or special charter travel. The agent or carrier will be able to buy the stamps in bulk from Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs offices. 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill provides for the Minister to enter into special arrangements concerning the collection of the tax. As an example, a carrying company may make a bulk payment on behalf of passengers listed on a certified manifest. Some shipping companies, in discussions with the Commonwealth, have already indicated their interest in such a procedure. The legislation does not propose that carriers or agents be responsible for the collection of the tax on behalf of the Government. This is up to the individual. But, of course, if agents or carriers wish to come to arrangements with us, we are prepared to discuss those arrangements with them.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not think that I need to add any more in discussion of the matters that have been brought up in the debate. Perhaps we could now move to the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  pointed out, clause 1 1 allows the Minister to make an arrangement with any person under which the person agrees to pay to the Commonwealth, in the manner provided in the arrangement, an amount equal to any tax that may become payable by any person to whom the arrangement applies. This allows for the agencytype arrangement under the Bill. It can apply, for instance, to shipping companies which may make special arrangements with the Government in relation to the payment of the departure tax. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 1 1 A. 
Amendment (by  Mr MacKellar)  proposed: 
After clause 1 1, insert the following new clause:  1 1  A. (  1 ) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the payment of tax by the production to authorized officers or such other officers as are prescribed of tax stamps by or on behalf of persons liable to pay tax and, in particular, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may make provision for and in relation to- 
the issue of tax stamps by the Commonwealth and the sale of tax stamps by the Commonwealth and other bodies or persons; and 
refunds of amounts paid for the purchase of tax stamps that are not produced for the purpose of payment of tax or in respect of which a refund is otherwise payable under the regulations. 
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the issue by the Commonwealth of stamps (in this sub-section referred to as 'exemption stamps') to or in respect of persons in respect of the departure of whom from Australia tax would be payable but for the operation of subsection 6(1) and, in particular, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, may make provision for and in relation to the production to authorized officers or such other officers as are prescribed of exemption stamps by or on behalf of such persons.' 
I must congratulate the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  on filling in his time. It was a magnificent effort to range so widely in 10 minutes. Let me deal with some of the questions which have been raised. Firstly, this is not a monster. On the question of staff, a number of departments are co-operating in the administration of this departure tax. The Bureau of Customs, the Department of Foreign Affairs and my Department will be co-operating in the arrangements. Let me assure the honourable member that any officer of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or of any of the other departments concerned has the ability to count the money, if he is worried about that. In the initial stages of the imposition of the tax we will be diverting some staff from other duties so that the initial stages will go smoothly. As it settles down, of course, we will look very closely at the administrative arrangements to see whether additional staff are required. 
I am talking about my Department. 
We would not see at this stage the need for any additional staff, and I am talking about tens rather than hundreds. 
Overall. I would like to make a couple of points because I think that the honourable member may inadvertently have misled the Australian people about the imposition of this tax. It does not apply only to Australians. It applies to all people leaving Australia and, therefore, it is not raised just from the Australian people. On a number of occasions during his remarks the honourable member mentioned that it would apply only to Australians. It does not; it applies to all those people, taking account of the exemptions, who leave Australia either by air or by boat. There is no question of a commission being considered but I must say that the officers of my Department have been in consultation with travel agents and air service operators. We are anxious to reach with these people arrangements which will result in the smooth administration of the scheme and we are very confident that we will do that. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  will allow me to reply to the question he has raised because, as he was, I am the Minister assisting the Treasurer and I recognise that it is a very exalted station to attain. The honourable member has raised again the content of his early remarks on the Bill. Let me just say that all the amendments introduced were consequential upon the Government's decision, firstly, to remove the necessity for the payment of the departure tax from the territories and, secondly, to collect the departure tax per medium of stamps. The honourable member made the remark that, for the first time in his experience, a Minister had to explain what was stated in his second reading speech. I did not do that. All I did in the statement that I made this afternoon prior to the debate was to acquaint the chamber with the contents of the Government's amendments in relation to the Bill. I believe that the subject has been debated sufficiently. I believe that we should deal with the Bill. 
I will have to reply to that,  Mr Chairman.  I made it absolutely clear in the second reading speech that I would be bringing back details on how the tax would be collected, and I have done just that. Consultations have been held with the travel industry by officers of my Department. The second reading speech was available in  Hansard  for anybody who wanted to take account of it and to acquaint themselves with it. We are making every effort to ensure that members of the travel industry are fully acquainted with the provisions of this Bill and we will continue to do so. I am very pleased to be able to say that these consultations have so far been held in a very amicable spirit. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause IS. 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act, and, in particular- 
making provision for and in relation to claims for refunds, the allowance or payment of refunds and the recovery of refunds paid incorrectly; and 
prescribing penalties not exceeding $ 100 for offences against the regulations. 
Amendment (by  Mr MacKellar)  proposed: 
Omit '$100', substitute '$500'. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  raised the question of penalties. The honourable member for Robertson asked whether we would be harassing people. I repeat that that is certainly not the intention of the Government in this matter. As honourable members will have noticed, there is provision for departure stamps or exemption stamps to be issued. In those situations there is the possibility that people may seek to misuse those stamps in some way. I am advised by the AttorneyGeneral's Department that the appropriate penalty, to bring this matter into line with similar legislation covering similar situations, is a maximum fine of $500. This is not an amount which must be charged. It is a maximum amount. 
As the honourable member for Hughes would know, as he has been in the Parliament a long time, regulations are laid before the Parliament for 14 days. It is not a question of their being brought in surreptitiously without the Parliament being aware of their nature. I think the honourable member's argument tends to fall down in relation to regulations. The honourable member for Hughes has sought, at some length, to obfuscate the issue. I remind the honourable member that over 100 different countries are already charging a departure tax of one sort or another. They seem to get through the administrative difficulties fairly easily. The situation remains that we will be watching the administration of the scheme very closely. If changes are necessary, we are prepared to make them. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause as amended agreed to. 
Tide agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I thank those members who have contributed to the debate this afternoon and this evening. A number of questions have been asked by various members in relation to various matters and I will see that wherever possible answers are provided to those questions. I might mention that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  asked about the rate of customs duty applicable on cameras. For his information I have just received a message that there is no customs duty on cameras. There is one point, though, to which I would draw attention which disturbs me more than somewhat and that is that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  quoted at length from a document which was obviously a memorandum from the Australian Bureau of Statistics to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Obviously it is an internal document. I think that one of the great things the British have left not only Australia but also many other parts of the world is a non-political Public Service. If we ever get away from that non-political public service, this country and other countries which have been blessed with this heritage will be very much the poorer. 
I do not excuse it whether it happens with a government of this complexion or a government of any other complexion. I just make the point generally that public servants hold a very privileged and very distinguished position within the community. They fulfil a task of great responsibility and I believe that all public servants should be aware of the very real trust and the very real responsibility that their position entails. I think that those people who may from time to time be tempted to make available internal working documents to people who have no right of access to those documents demean themselves very greatly and, more importantly, demean this great tradition of an apolitical public service. I am sorry that the honourable member for Gellibrand took the occasion to make use of the document. He could have made just the same arguments without the document. I am even more sorry that the document came into his possession. I say to those people or that person who made the document available to him that they or he should consider very carefully their or his position within a great organisation like the Australian Public Service. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
-I suggest that the order for the consideration of proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 14 September be varied by next considering the proposed expenditure for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the proposed expenditures for the Department of the Northern Territory, the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of Home Affairs. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $59,018,000 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for the opportunity to speak to these estimates. I also thank those honourable members who have contributed to the debate this evening. It has been a constructive approach to the question of immigration and ethnic affairs. I should like to take up a couple of points made by the various speakers. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  drew attention to the discrepancy between the $7.9m recommended by the Galbally Committee for expenditure in the first year of implementation of its report and the amount of $6. 5m provided in the Budget. I reiterate to honourable members that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in a statement to the Parliament on 30 May that the Government has accepted the financial commitment entailed in the Galbally proposal and stands by that commitment to implement the Galbally report. The $6.5m provided in this year's Budget to implement the Galbally report does not include costs of additional Public Service staff proposed by Galbally. Those staff costs will now be met from within proposed Budget appropriations for staff salaries. In addition, part of the funding for teaching English, ethnic languages and multicultural studies in schools will be included in the 1979-80 appropriations as the school funding is on a calendar year basis. I want to make it absolutely clear to the Committee and to people listening to this debate that the Government stands committed to implementing fully the Galbally proposals, and the expenditure of $6.5m in the first year in fact does allow that implementation to take place. 
The honourable member also raised the question of the Clearing House on Migrant IssuesCHOMI. The fact is that last year CHOMI was advised that it would have to make more effort to find funds itself for the continuation of its existence. Despite the efforts it made, it still ran into real financial problems. The Government has looked very closely at the problem experienced by CHOMI and I am glad to say that some funds will be found by the Department to ensure the continuation of CHOMI at this stage. The honourable member for Maribyrnong also raised the question of information advertising in the ethnic Press. I make the point that once-only grants will be increased from $100,000 to $150,000. In answer to another question he raised, I point out that the grants will increase this year as proposed by Galbally. In relation to advertising in the ethnic Press, a pilot project which the Department undertook did not produce a sufficiently large response to warrant further expenditure. In fact, the response to the project we initiated last year was surprisingly small, in my view. 
The honourable member also drew attention to the fact that the amount made available last year for the telephone interpreter service was underspent I do not subscribe to the view that every cent available in the appropriation must be spent. I would subscribe to the view that the amount of money spent should be spent properly and effectively. If the money cannot be spent properly and effectively, there is no sense in wasting it. After all, it is the taxpayers' money and we have a responsibility to make certain that it is spent effectively and efficiently. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  raised the question of the establishment of a migrant resource centre in Perth. He pointed to the high concentration of overseas born people in his electorate. I am glad to be able to say that the Galbally program makes provision for a resource centre to be established in Perth as early as possible in 1979-80. We hope and anticipate that a further centre will be established there in 1 980-8 1 . The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised a number of points. He seems to be a little confused about the job that the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications is required to do and also that responsibility which adheres in the technical area. I point out to the honourable member for Scullin that we have technical advisers at key posts overseas to evaluate trade qualifications on the basis of criteria established by Australian tripartite missions. There is a regular program of these tripartite missions and the central trades committee and the local trades committees in Australia to evaluate trade skills. These are set up under the Tradesmen's Rights Regulation Act. I wish to deal with some of the criticism of COPQ dealt with by the honourable member. The terms of reference for COPQ have been expanded and we will be seeking to do what we can to get a more ready evaluation of overseas skills and professions in relation to Australian equivalents. 
I note also the suggestions made by the honourable member in relation to publicity of shady operators overseas. He really was talking about tourist visas. I point out to him that all people who come to Australia on tourist visas sign a document in their own language. The document which they sign and which, theoretically at least, they should understand, points out that they are not able to take employment in Australia or enter any educational institution in Australia and that they must leave Australia within the time period specified in their visas. I take on board the suggestion from the honourable member about additional publicity. We will have a look at that matter. I also note his suggestion about citizenship and the provision of lists of new citizens to all Federal members of Parliament. 
Other honourable members have stressed the importance of immigration as a contributor to the economic well-being of the Australian nation. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  took exception to some of the arguments put forward by honourable members on this side of the House. All I can say to the honourable member for Batman is that he seemed to be a little confused in relation, firstly, to the history of migrant education and, secondly, to the contribution that migrants make towards the economic well-being of this nation. I gently point out to the honourable member that, in fact, the previous Labor Government was not responsible for the initiation of migrant education in Australia. In fact, it started in the 1 960s under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The honourable member made the statement in fairly direct terms that immigration equates with unemployment. He advanced the simplistic argument that if immigration is increased, inevitably it will increase unemployment. Of course, this argument does not take into account the composition of the migrant intake. If I can take as a guide the number of representations the honourable member makes to me in relation to immigration, I am sure that he was not arguing that we should be stopping family reunion migration. I am sure that the honourable member would not be arguing that we should completely cut out the refugee intake. Of course, these are the two areas that can result in some people being admitted to Australia who do not have the requisite skills or qualifications which are in long-term demand in Australia and which can add to the unemployment situation. However, the Government has made a conscious decision in relation to these two categories of migrants which states that the humanitarian and international obligations override the purely economic considerations. I believe that on further reflection the honourable member for Batman may agree with that. 
In relation to those migrants selected on an occupational basis, surveys both in Australia and overseas have shown quite conclusively that the recruitment and employment of one skilled person can lead to the additional employment of up to four or five semi-skilled or unskilled people. I am not arguing for a moment that selective recruitment overseas should take the place of training or re-training in Australia. I am saying that the two must go together. But there are occasions when bottlenecks occur in the production process in Australia. The only way in which these bottlenecks can be overcome is by the selective recruitment of skilled personnel overseas. We find that that recruitment leads to further employment of up to four or five semi-skilled or unskilled people. 
Other points were raised in the debate. They will be looked at closely and if I can provide answers to the honourable gentlemen who raised the points I Will do so. In the meantime I thank honourable members again for their contributions to the debate. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department  of  the Northern Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 ,247,000. 
Department of the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $80,303,000. 
Department of Home Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $7 1 ,426,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since the inception of the scheme all departments have sent Ethnic Liaison Officers to the seminars. 
) The first seminar was held on 22 March 1978. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1978, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) When the visa requirement for entry to Australia was extended on 1 January 1975 to include all British and Irish citizens the Government gave special consideration to the facility available to young Australians to make working holiday visits overseas- mainly to Britain. Accordingly in the interests of reciprocity it was decided to introduce Australian working holiday visas. Eligibility for such visas is limited to young citizens of the United Kingdom, Canada and Ireland residing in their own countries at the time of lodging applications. 
Statistics of approved working holiday visa applications are available only in respect of 1977. They are as follows: 
United Kingdom-2,502: Ireland- 1 15: Canada-844. 
An indication of the number of applications approved in 1976 may be gained from the comparative table of working holiday visa holders who actually arrived in Australia in that year and during 1977. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The Bill has been debated at length this afternoon in the other chamber. The amendment makes more precise the wording of the original Bill, and the Government has agreed to it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Prior to 1 959 no distinction was made between permanent and long term arrivals. Consequently, the number of permanent arrivals between 1 January 1946 and 30 June 1978 of 3,690,378 includes some long term arrivals. 
In the period 1 January 1946 to 30 June 1978, 9,847 medical practitioners migrated to Australia. To obtain information about the types of degree they held and the numbers who were subsequently registered in Australia would require examination of individual files- a very time consuming task. 
Based on the 1971 Census of Population and Housing, updated for subsequent arrivals, departures and deaths, the ratio of medical practitioners to population is approximately 1 : 620. 
Australian Atomic Energy Commission Research Establishment: Protection against Radiation (Question No. 1723) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information about departures from Australia is not yet available for the full year 1977-78 and therefore it is not possible to give details of net migrant arrivals. This information will be provided as soon as it becomes known. The following figures relate, therefore, to gross settler arrivals in 1977-78. 
Pursuant to section 42 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1942 I present the annual return of persons granted Australian citizenship for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a follows: 
A recent survey within the Department indicates that there are approximately 360 positions (both in Australia and overseas) at counters, in interview situations or in the interpreting/translating areas, where the party being faced prefers to speak in a language other than English. These dialogues are often conducted through an interpreter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Five voluntary agencies currently receive financial assistance from my Department for providing assistance specifically for refugees. The assistance is provided under a scheme introduced during the financial year 1977-78 by which agencies may claim reimbursement for the cost of material assistance (clothing and personal requisites) provided. 
and (3) The agencies involved and amounts paid are indicated below: 
1975-76 Nil; (b) 1976-77 Nil. (c)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister announced on 30 May 1978 that the Government accepts the Galbally Report proposals and the financial commitments which they entail over a three year period. He pointed out that there would be opportunity for adjustment through regular close monitoring of external circumstances such as responses of migrant groups. 
and (3) The additional financial allocation required to implement the proposals for Year 1 was estimated by the Galbally Review at $7.88m. The $6.5m provided for in the Budget for 1978-79 does not include the following items which the Review Group had included in their estimates: 
expenditures which will be related to the 1979 school year, pan of which will be funded in the 1979-80 financial year, 
costs where sequential implementation of recommendations is involved and expenditure is not expected to be incurred until next financial year, 
costs of additional Public Service staff which will be met from normal departmental appropriations for salaries and allowances; and 
costs of ethnic health workers, the employment of whom under the Community Health Program has to be worked out in consultations with the States. 
Task Group on Youth Affairs  (Question No. 1947) 
I am not able to give an entirely up-to-date account of the situation in the city of Beirut. I can rely only on reports that have come to me such as those which are available to the honourable member. As I understand the situation in the city of Beirut, it is very serious indeed. As he said, a great number of people have been displaced and are moving out of the city to other places in the surrounding countryside and also overseas. Yesterday the Prime Minister and I received a deputation of leading Australians of Lebanese origin who placed before us their views of the situation. I think they went on to see the Leader of the Opposition after they had spoken with the Prime Minister and me. Obviously their views were taken into account. 
I think the Government's continuing response in relation to situations of this nature would provide not only the Lebanese community butother Australian residents with confidence that we would react positively and humanely to situations which may occur. The people of Lebanon do not come within the strict definitions laid down by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, but this of course did not stop us from acting in the past when a particular situation confronted us. 
All I can say is that the migration officers were moved on the considered advice which said that their own personal safety was in some danger because of the situation in the city. At this stage I pay tribute to the Australian officers and to the locally engaged staff who continued to work under very difficult and arduous conditions in the migration office in Beirut. Obviously the Government is very concerned with the situation that has developed in Lebanon. We hope that talks which are taking place at present will bear fruit. Obviously we would like to see a cessation of the fighting, the hostilities, in that country. We are monitoring the situation very closely indeed. I think our past record demonstrates that if it is necessary to act we will. 
I have seen reports in today's newspapers which carry a statement from the Opposition spokesman on immigration and ethnic affairs alleging that Australia is laundering the entry of Rhodesians via South Africa. I think it is one of the more fanciful statements that have emanated from the ranks of the Opposition since 1975. People from Rhodesia are eligible to apply for migrant entry to Australia on exactly the same basis as anyone else throughout the world, subject to two conditions, that is, that they have not furthered or encouraged the illegal regime in Rhodesia and that they do not travel on Rhodesian passports. Subject to these two conditions, Rhodesians can apply for migrant entry to Australia and they are considered on exactly the same basis as any other individual in the world. The fact that we do not have a migration office in Rhodesia means that they must apply outside that country. The principal point of application is Pretoria. 
We have studiously adhered to the terms of the 1968 resolution relating to sanctions against Rhodesia. To suggest that we have used the Indo-Chinese refugee situation as a means of assisting the entry of Rhodesians is, I think, to denigrate Australia's response- not only the 
Government's response to the Indo-Chinese refugee situation but also the assistance that has been given by voluntary agencies and the Australian community generally. The Opposition spokesman seems to be at a loss to understand the fact that those people coming from the camps in Malaysia and Thailand are put through the process by immigration officers and are given resident status. Those people who have arrived without authorisation are not given resident status; they are given temporary residence status until their refugee status is examined and a decision is made on it. It really is a most fanciful statement and one which does the honourable member no credit. 
The statement that with a gross intake of approximately 77,000 migrants Australia would finish up with a net migrant increase of approximately 70,000 was based not only on people applying overseas for migration and being granted entry to Australia but also on those acquiring change of status in Australia. If those two figures are added together a net increase of 70,000 for the year is arrived at. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 2073. 
An answer to question No. 1679 is being provided with this answer. I refer the honourable member to the answer to question No. 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It would appear that the honourable member is referring to two separate groups (a) refugees processed overseas for migrant entry to Australia and (b) Vietnamese claiming to be refugees who have arrived without prior authority direct at Australia 's shores. 
In relation to group (a) following their arrival in Australia these refugees are normally accommodated in migrant hostels situated in five States. In common with other migrants when they leave hostels they are under no obligation to keep the Government informed of their whereabouts and no com- ,prehensive record is available of their movements. Most of the people in group (b) have been escorted to Darwin where following completion of formalities they have been granted temporary entry permits until their applications for refugee status and permanent residence have been processed. z Following a decision on their applications those granted permanent residence are free to move without keeping the Department informed of their addresses. Apart from these people some boat arrivals who had already been approved for entry to other countries of resettlement have been granted temporary entry permits enabling them to remain here until their onward movement to those countries. In addition another 12 Vietnamese nationals on one vessel who spent some time in detention in Darwin while their situation was investigated were subsequently granted temporary permits pending a decision on their applications to remain here. These are currently under consideration. 
A small number of Vietnamese boat people made landfall without escort or entry permits but were quickly apprehended and then processed in a similar manner to the others I have described. 
It is incorrect to describe the Vietnamese boat arrivals as having entered Australia illegally. While they entered Australia without prior authority none is a prohibited immigrant. 
This information is not available at present for the total number. A survey of the settlement experience of IndoChinese refugees is currently being conducted and will produce information on their employment experience and receipt of social security benefits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While the provisions of the Migration Act 1958 apply to Papua New Guineans entering Australia, as they do to other overseas nationals, over a long period there has been unrestricted movement of Papua New Guineans and Torres Strait Islanders between some of the islands in the Torres Strait and the adjacent coastal areas of Papua New Guinea. Most of this movement has been for the performance of traditional activities such as hunting and fishing, or visiting relatives in accordance with local custom. The Papua New Guineans and Torres Strait Islanders moving in that limited area for such traditional purposes have not always held passports or visas. 
In a statement to the House of Representatives on 25 May 1978 the Minister for Foreign Affairs described the principal basic elements which the Australian and Papua New Guinea Foreign Ministers have agreed will be included in the treaty to be concluded on maritime boundaries between the two countries and on other matters relating to Torres Strait. One such basic element is that a Protected Zone will be established. Within this zone the Torres Strait Islanders and the Papua New Guineans who live in the adjacent coastal area will be able to continue their traditional activities and to move about freely for these purposes. In short those traditional movements now taking place will be regularised. Additionally the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the treaty will provide for the broader co-operation on immigration, customs, health and quarantine arrangements in the Protected Zone. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Publication 'Immigration Categories and Procedures' is available only in English at this stage: but my Department is arranging the printing of the information in a special leaflet, entitled 'Migrant Entry to Australia', in the following languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, Danish. Dutch, Finnish, German, Greek, Italian. Japanese. Macedonian, Maltese, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese. Serbo-Croat (Cyrillic alphabet). Serbo-Croat (Latin alphabet), Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Tagalog and Turkish. Leaflets in these languages will be available at overseas posts and offices of my Department in Australia by the time the revised immigration categories and procedures come into effect on 1 January 1979. 
, (3) and (4) My Department has no record to date of any requests for the publication in other languages. We shall meet any future requests from foreign-language stocks when these become available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20 September 1978, 889 passengers from 8 overlapping international flights presented themselves at the inwards clearance point at Tullamarine airport between 9.22 and 10.45 a.m. The last passenger completed immigration formalities at 1 1.45 a.m. The average time per passenger for completion of Immigration, Quarantine and some Customs formalities was 1.3 minutes but with such a peak of arrivals delay for some was inevitable. These duties are performed by officers of the Bureau of Customs for my Department. 
No. However, as occasions, e.g. with the aged or infirm, officers do assist as a matter of courtesy in order to prevent unnecessary delay to other passengers. 
Not typical, though passenger traffic at Tullamarine is heaviest on Wednesday and Sunday mornings. 
Yes. 
Immigration requirements are kept under surveillance with a view to improvements consistent with control responsibilities but it would be uneconomic to staff the control points on the basis of handling the heaviest loads without any delay. 
The department aims at an Immigration clearance time of 45 seconds per passenger at Tullamarine and Mascot. However, a balance between this objective and the current availability of staff must be accepted. 
On behalf of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to introduce new citizenship provisions into the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1955 to extend Australian citizenship to any person, not already an Australian citizen, who was ordinarily resident on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands immediately before their transfer to Australia, who is now ordinarily resident in Australia or an external Territory and' who wishes to take up Australian citizenship. The Bill is an integral part of the Government's comprehensive program for the advancement and welfare of the Cocos people. This amending legislation was foreshadowed in a statement I issued jointly with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 6 July 1978. 
Under the existing legislation persons who were over  2 1  years of age at the time Australia accepted responsibility for the Islands on  23  November  1955  had a choice of making a declaration to become an Australian citizen in a period of three years and six months from that date. This provision expired on  23  May  1959.  Persons who were under  21  years of age at  23  November  1955  were able to make a declaration to become an Australian citizen two years after that person attained or attains the age of  21  years. The value of this provision expires on  22  November  1978.  Persons born in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands after  23  November  1955  are automatically Australian citizens. The present Cocos Malay population on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands is about  270,  of whom about  140  will become eligible under the proposed provisions. In addition, approximately  180  Cocos Malays now resident in Western Australia and Christmas Island would become eligible. The Cocos Malay Interim Advisory Council has been consulted and supports the proposal. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes, I do. 
I will not go into the background of the trip by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  into the area, but I did take the opportunity while I was visiting countries which are members of the Association of South East Asian Nations to check all of the sources available to me at that stage- Australian officers operating overseas and the officers of various governments whose countries I was visiting- to see whether there was any basis for the Leader of the Opposition's remarks. I found none. When I chided him, as I did, I concluded my message by saying that if he had any evidence he should make it available to me. No evidence came from the Leader of the Opposition. As I said in my Press release on Monday, the first direct evidence that came to me in relation to this matter came over the last two weeks. 
I assume that the honourable gentleman is referring to reports coming out of Melbourne about the attendance of interpreters with people who have difficulty with the English language. The Emergency Telephone Interpreter Service has been set up to deal primarily with telephone inquiries. There has been a very big increase in the demand for the services provided by the Emergency Telephone Interpreter Service- 20 per cent annually in the Melbourne area alone. The situation in Melbourne is that the extra demand has required that requests for the personal attendance of interpreters be looked at extremely carefully, and there have been some delays in the provision of this service. We have taken this into account and in fact two additional interpreters are being sought in Melbourne. One will be associated with the Indo-Chinese because there has been a big increase in the demand for interpreters of the languages from Indo-China. The Galbally report has recommended the provision of some millions of dollars to improve the interpreter and translating services available. Those recommendations involve discussions with the States. Those discussions are being actively pursued at present. As the honourable member knows, we have announced the formation of a task force to oversee the implementation of the Galbally recommendations. That task force is presently visiting various States and discussions with State officials are taking place. So, in recent times, there has been a big increase in the number of services provided in this area. But I am not saying that the total situation is covered at this stage. We are conscious of the need further to upgrade the services and we are working towards that end. 
I have seen reports in the newspapers concerning a visit by officers of my Department to that vessel and the reported reaction of people on board the vessel. We have undertaken discussions with companies concerned with travel by sea. Those discussions are continuing. We hope to find a way around the problems that have been brought up by this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. A working party was established within the Department in August, 1 976 to study matters of special concern to migrant women. It met on six occassions in 1976 and was subsequently disbanded when its activities were incorporated into the charter for the Ethnic Affairs Branch established in early 1977. 
The working party consisted of: 
8 Third Division Officers and 1 Fourth Division Officer. 
7 females, 2 males. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to the House of Representatives Question No. 1041 in  Hansard,  2 June 1978-Parts ( 1 ) &amp; (2). 
The working party was given the broad task of reporting on the major problems of migrant women from the point of view of social relationships, language difficulties, problems in the workforce, and the need for special facilities and was required to seek effective solutions through the development and improvement of existing services. It was also to examine the selection criteria and Departmental procedures for necessary amendment in the light of problems which had been identified. 
The working party was examining Departmental procedures, migrant selection criteria and community facilities available to migrant women when its tasks were subsumed by the establishment of the Ethnic Affairs Branch in early 1977 and the Task Force on Migrant Women as part of the Inter-departmental Working Group on Women's Affairs, in June 1977. 
The recommendations of this working Group were considered by the policy review group and the submissions made were taken account of in the preparation of the new policy which I announced in my statement in Parliament 7 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
18. 
330. 
(a) Minimum of five direct instructional hours per day. 
The courses were conducted from between 30 to 40 days of instruction, except for two of the courses in Victoria which were 1 5 days and 25 days respectively. 
These summer vacation courses were planned by a Committee comprising persons from various ethnic groups, State and Commonwealth officers and representatives of tertiary education institutions that were to conduct one or more of the courses. Each Committee was chaired by an officer of the Commonwealth Department of Education. 
Courses were conducted by tertiary education institutions and by the State Adult Migrant Education Services. 
Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. 
$290,000 was allocated for -these courses in 1977-78 including $130,000 for living allowances. $238,990 was actually spent including $ 107,682 on living allowances. 
Yes. It is estimated that the summer vacation courses will cost $280,000 in 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The nationalities of applicants approved for immigration under the entrepreneur policy up to 30 June 1 978 are indicated in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Following a survey of the Geelong area it has been decided to open an office of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in that city. 
It is expected that suitable office space will become available during November and that the Office will be opened in the latter part of that month. 
As regards passport applications, I am informed that it is not presently proposed to extend passport issuing facilities to the Geelong office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Since 1 973, the number of persons in Australia at any one time, as private overseas students has been subject to a limit of 10,000. In addition there are some thousands of persons in Australia acquiring occupational skills or experience under the aegis of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. 
(a) Statistics held by my Department show that the number of persons who entered Australia under the Government's private overseas student policy (including exchange students, specialised trainees and dependents) over the last five years was: 
1977-78*- 3,781 
1976-77 -3,330 
1975-76 -3,362 
1974-75 -3,164 
1973-74 -2,624 
* Nine months to 3 1 March 1978 only. 
(b) At 30 June 1978 there were 7,885 private overseas students in Australia engaged in study or training under Commonwealth supervision. In addition it is estimated that there were some 2,000 others here with private student status, including exchange students, persons engaged in specialised training (whose stay in Australia generally is for periods of less than twelve months). 
The guidelines relating to the entry of private overseas students are as follows: 
Prospective students may be granted visas for temporary entry to undertake full-time post-secondary studies provided that: the proposed course of study or its equivalent is not available in their home country or country of residence; such study is of worthwhile content and duration leading to a qualification which would be recognised and be of value in relation to future employment opportunities in the home country or country of residence; they have the capacity (including a satisfactory knowledge of English) to undertake their proposed course of study; they gain enrolment in an Australian educational institution to undertake the approved course of study; they are able to meet the cost of their fares to and from Australia, their fees and maintenance; they have a genuine intention to enter Australia on a temporary basis for study purposes only and will depart from Australia on the completion of their approved course of study or if they abandon studies; they have passports or travel authorities valid for reentry into their home country or country of residence; and they meet normal migration health and character requirements. 
Entry for studies below post-secondary level is not normally permitted, but special approval may be given to undertake the last two years of the Australian secondary school course as a preliminary to an acceptable postsecondary course. 
No. The guidelines for the entry of exchange students and specialised trainees are as follows: 
Exchange Students: Rotary International, other service organisations and individual institutions arrange for the exchange of selected young people between overseas countries and Australia for study and training. The student is usually selected by the sponsoring organisation in his own country and the Australian organisation accepts responsibility for his welfare in Australia. Exchange students enter Australia for secondary studies for a period of twelve months or less or to undertake studies or training at postsecondary level. Those entering at the post-secondary level are required to meet the normal requirements for entry as private overseas students. 
Specialised Trainees: The Specialised Trainee programme aims at providing opportunities for trainees to upgrade existing skills where such training is not available locally to enable them to perform more efficiently in their occupations on their return to their home country. Trainees are admitted for short periods of stay, usually twelve months or less; their applications are generally sponsored by their employers in the home country and the training authority in Australia must detail a training programme. Where a work component is involved the programme is considered in consultation with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to ensure that Australian awards and conditions are met and that no Australian will be displaced from employment. 
Under current policy private overseas students may acquire resident status if they are able to satisfy the normal criteria for migration. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Mining engineer, surveyor, rigger, diamond driller and mineral exploration driller. The labour market assessments for these occupations are shown in the list of approved occupations for migration dated 1 September 1978, which has been forwarded to the honourable member. 
2 ) The proportion of all occupations listed are: 
Professional-39 percent 
Administrative- 4 per cent 
Skilled- 43 per cent 
Semi-skilled- 6 per cent 
Unskilled-nil 
Only one occupation listed, i.e. motor mechanic, has a shortage classification in all States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
45. 
(a) One. 
No boats have been burned or scuttled but a number are in a serious state of disrepair or have foundered. See 2(d). 
Nine boats have been sold, all within Australia. 
One boat has returned to Vietnam. Thirteen are in fair to poor condition in or near Darwin Harbour. One is afloat at Wessel Island and nine have been sold to Australian interests. The remaining twenty-one boats have foundered in port or at various locations on the coast but they present no risk to navigation. 
The nine boats which have been sold were purchased by Australian residents who are engaged in professional fishing or light charter work. 
(a) See (3) (d) above. All boats including those which have sunk or are in disrepair are under the control of port authorities or are safely located. 
and (c) My Department is one of a number which form a committee which is studying the complex question of ownership and disposal of the boats. The recommendations of the Committee to the Government are expected in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Migration Act 1958 confers in Sections 12, 13 and 1 4 power to the Minister of State for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to order the deportation of 'aliens' and 'immigrants' provided certain defined pre-conditions exist. Those sections may be invoked in the following circumstances: 
Section 12 confers upon the Minister the power to order the deportation of an alien who in Australia has been convicted of a crime of violence or of extortion, or of an attempt to commit such a crime, or of any other offence for which he has been sentenced to imprisonment for one year or longer. That power may be exercised upon the expiration of, or during, the term of imprisonment served or being served by the alien in respect of the offence. 
Section 13 of the Act confers upon the Minister the power to order the deportation of an immigrant who in Australia has been convicted of an offence punishable by death or by imprisonment for one year or longer and of an immigrant who in Australia has been convicted of an offence by reason of being a prostitute, having lived on or received earnings of prostitution or having procured persons for the purpose of prostitution provided that the offence was committed within five years after any entry into Australia by the immigrant. Section 13 of the Act also confers upon the Minister the power to order the deportation of an immigrant who, within five years after any entry by him into Australia, is an inmate of a mental hospital or public charitable institution. 
Section 14 of the Act confers upon the Minister the power to order the deportation of an alien if it appears to him that the conduct of the alien, whether in Australia or elsewhere, has been such that he should not be allowed to remain in Australia. Section 14 of the Act also confers upon the Minister the power to order the deportation of an immigrant who entered Australia not more than five years previously if it appears to him either that the conduct of the immigrant, whether in Australia or elsewhere, has been such that he should not be allowed to remain in Australia or that the immigrant is a person who advocates the overthrow by force or violence of government or the unlawful destruction of property. 
No action may be taken by the Minister to make an order under Section 14 of the Act unless he has given to the proposed deportee a notice of his intention to make such an order and of the grounds upon which he proposes to act and unless either the proposed deportee does not request that his case be considered by a Commissioner appointed under the Section or does not when summonsed appear before such a Commissioner or a Commissioner reports after having made a thorough investigation that the ground specified in the notice has been established. 
and (3) Yes. Every case is decided upon the basis of its individual circumstances after consideration of all the material facts. Actually the following matters are taken into account whenever applicable: 
The nature of the offence; 
The circumstances of the commission of the offence; 
The view of the offence expressed by the Court before which the offender appeared; 
The nature of the penalty; 
The extent of rehabilitation of the offender; 
The prospects of recidivism; 
The necessity to prevent or inhibit the commission of like offences by other persons; 
The previous criminal history of the offender; 
The public interest; 
The circumstances of the offender; 
The circumstances of the family or of other persons having a relationship with the offender; 
The obligations of the Commonwealth under the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. 
Statistics have not been kept segregating the number of persons with resident status who have been deported. However the following table shows the total number of persons who have been deponed pursuant to Sections 12, 13 and 14 during the past five financial years. The majority would have been persons having resident status in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) Reports of the surveys referred to may be found in the Australian Industry Development Association's Bulletin No. 282 (January/February 1977) and the Victorian Employers ' Federation report of 1 1 March 1977 (Vol. 7, No. 8). These surveys do not provide specific estimates of multipliers but together with other sources, underlay the Department 's estimate given in paragraph 4 of the answer to question No. 1042. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a ) and ( b) Settler arrivals from Asian Countries ( * ) are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not available separately in relation to the year 1975, but only for the period 1.10.73 to 3 1.12.75 inclusive. Similarly, information is not yet available for the June quarter of 1 978. 
The attached table (A) sets out the information sought for the periods 1.10.73 to 31.12.75, the years 1976and 1977 and the first quarter of 1 978. 
These figures are based upon computer records of passenger cards presented by people entering Australia, ostensibly for temporary purposes, for whom no matching outgoing passenger cards have been found. 
There may be overstatement of the number of people overstayed for the period up to mid- 1976 because of difficulties in the computer matching of names. 
The percentages, on a nationality basis, of persons who failed to leave Australia after the expiration of their authorised period of temporary stay are given in the final column of the table referred to above. 
It is not possible to state the percentages of such people who were deported. However, the numbers of prohibited immigrants (including people who entered Australia illegally) deponed during the years 1975, 1976 and 1977 and from 1.1.78 to 3 1.3.78 are given in the attached table (B). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Records are consolidated on an annual basis and the 75 employer organisations who participated in the Courses-in-Industry, English language instruction at the workplace scheme, during 1977-78 are listed, by State and Territory, below. 
Three hundred and seventeen courses were conducted during 1977-78 for employees of the organisations listed. A total of 3, 1 78 employees took advantage of these courses, including 1,138 women employees. 
Commonwealth support for the scheme is made available through the Adult Migrant Education Program. Participating employer organisations also contribute significantly to the scheme by providing classroom accommodation at the workplace and by allowing employees to attend classes wholly or partly during paid working hours. 
Commonwealth expenditure on the Courses-in-Industry scheme cannot be readily separated out in all cases because some staff and other resources are used in relation to the adult migrant education program generally as well as in support of this particular scheme. Subject to this comment it is estimated that $328,000 was spent on that scheme during the 1977- 78 program year from the funds provided for the adult migrant education program. $520,000 has been set aside for Courses-in-Industry for the 1978-79 financial year. Subject to demand and opportunities this amount could be increased during the year by the re-apportionment of funds from other lower priority activities within the overall program. 
Another project in the Courses-in-Industry area that was current in 1977-78 and is expected to be completed in 1978- 79 is the development of new teaching and learning materials for these courses. 
Courses-in-Industry (English for Migrants) Scheme Participating Employer Organisations ( 1977-78): 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is expected that the survey of the information needs of migrants will be completed by early May 1979. The survey is comprehensive and will embrace all the points referred to in the question. 
Following the invitation of tenders and after consultation with the Public Service Board it has been approved that W. D. Scott Pry Ltd carry out the survey. W. D. Scott will employ the Australian Research and Sales Bureau Pry Ltd to carry out certain of the work. 
As appropriate, the results of the survey will be made available to other Commonwealth and State Departments and authorities, and to voluntary organisations, which provide information intended to facilitate the settlement, welfare and integration of migrants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In accordance with longstanding practice, no individual sums were specified. The precise level of each grant will depend in part on the classification of the social worker or welfare officer employed. The overall average of grants can be expected to be about $ 1 5,000 per annum. 
Ethnic community organisations usually regard their own community as the primary group to serve and I approve grants to them in the knowledge of that situation. It is clear from the following names of the organisations concerned which ethnic group is their primary target. Recipients of grants-in-aid are encouraged, however, to assist migrants of any ethnic background and not to refuse to provide service. 
Some grants are given to broadly-based community or- . ganisations which achieve very wide coverage among ethnic groups. 
The names and addresses of the organisations that received these grants are as follows: 
Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of WA, 115 Francis Street, Perth, WA 6000. 
WA Portuguese Club Inc., Strang Street, Beaconsfield, Fremantle,WA6160. 
For the information of honourable members I present a review of the activities of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amount in the appropriations for my Department for education for adult migrants and refugees is: 
I am aware that a significant proportion of people seeking to visit Australia from Greece have been rejected because their applications have not been considered bona fide applications for visitor entry. Following the tabling of the report of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs last week, honourable members will be aware that in Australia at the present time there is a considerable number of people who fall into the category of prohibited or illegal migrants. The vast majority of these people are those who have entered Australia as visitors perfectly legally and have not abided by the terms and conditions of their entry. Migration officers overseas are experienced people. If they have any doubts about the bona fides of the applications to visit Australia, they investigate those in some depth. I have to rely upon the judgment of those officers in making decisions. In relation to that, I say that I have the utmost confidence in the decisions made by migration officers overseas. The task which the officers have to undertake is difficult. There is no discrimination against any one country. Each applicant is treated on his merits. As I said, I have noted the numbers of applications from various countries which have been refused. From time to time various honourable members from both sides of the House bring these cases to my attention. In those instances, of course, I have them investigated again. However, on the record so far, the decisions made by the officers overseas have, in the vast majority of cases, stood up to investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Deportations effected to 3 1 October 1 978 totalled 777. 
Persons deported included those who had entered Australia illegally, visitors who failed to depart upon expiration of the period of their authorised stay and persons who had committed criminal offences. The number of persons in each category were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position was only advertised in the Commonwealth  Gazette.  Should that not produce candidates of sufficient quality wider re-advertisement can be considered. 
The position is in charge of the Migrant Services Branch and calls for wide administrative experience and the stipulated tertiary education, which can be attracted from within the Australian Public Service. 
The selection panel is comprised of two Branch Heads from the Adelaide office with extensive departmental experience. 
Given the range of migrant languages spoken in Australia possession of a linguistic qualification by the selection panel is not seen as essential. The linguistic qualifications of the applicants would be fairly established, if necessary, by reference to appropriate language testing bodies. 
5 ) The selection criteria for the position are: 
wide administrative experience particularly in migrant settlement matters and operating procedures of the department in general. 
tertiary education in social administration with social work background desirable. 
experience in transcultural setting. 
ability to establish and maintain good relations with employers, government departments, community agencies, national groups etc. 
ability to analyse trends and to prepare analytical, logical and concise reports. 
The appointee needs to be a sound administrator and possess the appropriate social welfare background. However involvement in and/or knowledge of ethnic cultures and communities and foreign language skills will be factors taken into consideration. 
The appointee will administer a growing program of services, many of which already exist. 
There are currently no positions of Ethnic Liaison officers in the Department 's office in South Australia. 
The honourable member's interest is appreciated and I take this opportunity to advise that since the advertisement of this proposed position on 31 August the classification of the position is being reviewed. If a change in the position occurs I have asked that the Department advertise the position both within and without the service. 
As far as I can recall, my attention has not been drawn to that article, except now by the honourable member. He has asked a series of detailed questions. I will certainly investigate them and give him a detailed reply after Question Time. 
On behalf of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and for the information of honourable members I present the report of a national survey on energy research and development in Australia in 1976-77. 
On behalf of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and for the information of honourable members I present a report covering the operations of the Australian Safeguards Office for the year ended 30 June 1978. In presenting this report I draw attention to the comments on page 5 about the Government's confirmation of the arrangement that the Office is functionally independent of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
On behalf of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and for the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and for the information of honourable members I present the report of the activities of the Department of National Development for the period 20 December 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953 I present the report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971 1 present the report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1977. I also present the report on the operation of the Act in relation to the adult migrant education program for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is a follows: 
The numbers of private overseas students granted a change of status, mainly to resident, in the past5 years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information about visitor visas sought is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The economic factors of numas (which include aspects of employment) and the points assigned to each are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Departmental statistics are collated on the basis of financial years, and relate to the admission of specific groups of refugees and displaced persons rather than the countries of first asylum from which these people came. Statistics for refugee and quasi-refugee groups admitted for the financial years, 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) One (GCS-2100); (b) As in 1 (a) above: (c) One (a word processor); (d) The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is a user of the B7700 computing facility owned by Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, and operated by the Mandata Project Office. The answers to parts (3), (4), (6) and (7) of this question concerned with this Department's use of that facility have been included in the Prime Minister's reply to a similar question. 
(a) GCS-2100-$70,000 in 1973; (b) Wordprocessor tenders not yet fully evaluated. Cost expected to be of the order of $50,000. 
(a) GCS-2100. Used exclusively for data entry, (b) Word-processor (being purchased). To be used to improve efficiency of departmental typing resources. 
(a) Data stored on GCS-2100: Personal details relating to passenger movements and citizenship grantees; survey and other statistical data- all temporarily; (b) Data to be stored on word-processor correspondence, reports, etc. submitted for typing. 
No interconnections exist between any of these computers, nor, in the foreseeable future, are any envisaged. 
GCS-2100: Programming staff and senior data processing operator of my Department; Word-Processor The access controls are yet to be finalised, but will only involve staff of my Department 
When the GCS-2100 was installed, 16 staff were reallocated to other duties. The staffing implications of the installation of the word processing equipment will depend on developments in typing workloads in the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only computer owned and operated by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, a GCS-2 1 00, is an input facility to computers operated by other Departments. No information is available from this system. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, following consultation by my Department with the Australian Electoral Office, is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Voting rights at the state level are a matter for each individual State Government to determine and are outside the sphere of responsibility of the Australian Electoral Office. 
(b) The Commonwealth Electoral Act requires all Australian citizens and other British subjects to enrol and vote for federal elections. The franchise so conferred is only concerned with the question whether a particular person has the legal status of an Australian citizen or a British subject and not, per se, with his country of origin. 
My Department in conjunction with the Australian Electoral Office is studying the question of all migrants being placed on an equal footing in relation to their voting rights. In relation to Galbally recommendation No. 34, this involves the study of several options for possible alterations to legislation. 
The matter has been discussed recently at the Conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs who generally saw a need for a uniform Commonwealth and State approach bearing in mind the confusion that could result through the operation of Section 41 of the Constitution if different approaches and timing were adopted in amending Commonwealth and State legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An advertising campaign was authorised. 
(a) $108,000. 
The advertising was placed through the Australian Government Advertising Service. Printing of literature was carried out by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
Staff from my own Department involved with tax collection at airport booths, stamp control and accounting in Regional Offices numbers 47. One officer from Central Office, Canberra is responsible for co-ordination and implementation. There is also some involvement in departure tax collection on a part time basis of staff in the Passports Offices and Customs Bureau of the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Business and Consumer Affairs respectively. A number of other Departments have been and will continue to be involved on an ad hoc basis from time to time. 
It is not possible to provide an accurate assessment of total administration costs for collecting the tax in 1978-79 pending finalisation of a staff review by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Public Service Board. However based on existing staff levels the cost during 1978-79 is estimated at $714,000. This includes the cost for providing and furnishing booths at airports, overtime, travelling allowance for officers, security measures for handling moneys collected and salaries of an additional 46 staff. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Commonwealth officials involved in the implementation of the Galbally Report on Migrant Services and Programs held discussions on the Report with State 
Government officials in Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth during the week 9- 1 3 October. 
The officials held informal small group discussion meetings on the Galbally Report with representatives of a number of ethnic community groups and other community organisations working amongst migrants. The meetings were part of the continuing consultations with ethnic and community organisations on the implementation of the Galbally Report. 
The following persons attended the meetings (some others who had been invited were unable to attend): 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 47 persons at November 1978. 
Airports: Sydney-22, Melbourne-12, Perth-4, Brisbane- 6, Darwin- 1 . 
City offices: Sydney- 1, Melbourne- 1. 
The numbers and classification of staffing for collection of the departure tax is under review by the Department and the Public Service Board, and will be the subject of consultations with staff associations. However based on current staffing, extra salary and wage costs for twelve months is estimated at $500,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Consideration was given to requiring airline and shipping companies to collect the $ 10 departure tax on behalf of the Commonwealth. Unlike the situation in many overseas countries, where airport specific purpose charges are collected by airline or airport authorities for services, the Australian departure tax is a general revenue tax. It was decided that by virtue of its nature it should be collected by the Government The collection system developed does, however, permit third parties including carriers to pay the tax or claim exemption on behalf of passengers. 
Exact details of other countries' methods of collection are not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters has determined five levels of competence at which accreditation will be conferred. These range from the incidental use of a second language to aid simple communication (Level 1 ) to the high degree of proficiency required for work as a simultaneous interpreter or technical translator in an international context (Level 5). 8,000 copies of the Authority's statement on levels are being printed in booklet form and should be available shortly for distribution. As soon as printing is completed, a copy of the booklet will be forwarded to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For statistical purposes, persons in the occupationally eligible category include spouses and children as well as the principal applicant. The selection at overseas posts is on the basis of the principal applicant's possession of skills or qualifications which are both recognised and in continuing demand in Australia. Once eligibility on occupational grounds has been established and all the other criteria for immigration met, these applicants and their families are approved for immigration and issued visas on which the appropriate eligibility category code is entered. A separate code describing the occupational status of each person is also included in that person 's visa. 
On arrival of migrants in Australia, primary officers at the port of entry transcribe visa codes onto incoming passenger cards. This visa code information on these cards is the basis of statistical compilation of details on settler arrivals. In a small proportion of cases, the transcribed data is incorrect or incomplete. These with other sources of clerical errors, meant that no occupational information was available on 419 worker arrivalsin 1977-78 in the occupationally eligible category out of the total of 12,482 mentioned in my earlier answer. A further 95 workers were coded as 'not previously employed ' and for whom, therefore, no specific occupational classification could be given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Arrangements for conducting citizenship interviews at the Sydney office outside normal working hours have been made when resources permitted but it has not been possible to continue the service. 
and (4) The numbers of persons interviewed outside normal working hours at the Commonwealth Centre, Chifley Square where the Sydney office is located are: 
1976- 77-467. 
1977- 78-993. 
1978- 79-123. 
None. 
The Australian Government is anxious that settlers to Australia should seek Australian citizenship and every encouragement is given to them to do so. Unfortunately it has not been possible recently to arrange for special interviewing programs but the matter will be kept under review as it has been over the years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister on 1 7 October 1 978 in answer to question number 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). In addition, I mention the Conference of Ministers for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs which was established in January 1968. It comprises the Commonwealth Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and State Ministers responsible for immigration or ethnic affairs matters. The Conference meets twice yearly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Staff employed on 1 May 1978: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Prime Minister to question 1794 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1 978, page 3351). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of settler arrivals from Eastern South Asia (a) were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Full-time staff employed by Telephone Interpreter Service as at: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr and Mrs Greig, as visitors to Australia, applied for resident status before the change in policy on 7 June 1978. The policy in effect at the time of their application required simply that they be able to meet normal migration criteria. While  Mr Greig  did not fall within one of the 'main stream' occupational categories in demand in Australia at that time, he held a substantial contract of employment for which, as an international cricketer of outstanding repute, he was especially well qualified. Account was also taken of the major contribution to sport in Australia made by  Mr Greig  as both a player and a coach. 
Proposed Telecommunications CentreMelbourne  (Question No.  1916) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Immigrants have not been alerted directly by my Depanment to the dangers of using products containing asbestos. However, the wide publicity given to these matters in ethnic newspapers and the media in general ensures that the majority of the Australian public is kept well informed. 
Medical examinations are carried out on all immigrants and chest x-rays taken of those sixteen years of age and over before entry into Australia. These measures identify any immigrants affected by asbestos as well as any other significant disease. 
After entry into Australia immigrants can be required to have further chest x-rays mainly for identification of possible reactivation of tuberculosis but also for identification of other relevant conditions. Apart from these precautions, migrants in Australia are subject only to the same medical checks as apply generally in the community. 
Asbestos Use in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No.  3005) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2638 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  2 1 November 1978, page 3 156). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main translation functions of the Translation Unit within my Department are: 
to provide a translation service from foreign languages into English and English into foreign languages of departmental correspondence, documents of migrants and official documents; 
to provide a translation service for other Commonwealth Departments and instrumentalities. 
The Translation Unit has on various occasions translated statements by Ministers of the present and previous Governments. 
Translation of the material issued by the ACT Teachers' Federation was not considered to be a function of the Translation Unit. 
In implementing the Galbally Report on Post-Arrival Services and Programs for Migrants, the Government is committed to improving information services to migrants to enable them to take their place in society, partake of its benefits, exercise their rights and discharge their duties. 
In line with this, it was recently decided to translate into Italian and Greek four statements by the Prime Minister of community interest. There was no directive that the translations should be given top priority although, as with any topical matter prepared for the media, it was indicated that the translations were required as soon as possible. 
The statements, available to the Australian Englishlanguage media, were for distribution to the ethnic press and ethnic radio. The first statement was a radio talk about taxation; the second and third were about Commonwealth/State financial relations and the results of the Loan Council. The fourth was about reduction in interest rates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In respect to Questions ( 1 ) and (2), I refer you to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2903  (Hansard  of 24 November 1978, page 3577). 
(a) (i) One officer and wife- Surcharge paid by officer, (ii) Nil. (iii) Nil. 
(b) (i) One officer as above, (ti) Nil. (iii) Nil. (c) (i) One. (ii) Nil. (iii) Nil. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of 13,972 former settlers departed Australia permanently in 1977-78. However, it is not possible to break down this number into the migration categories under which they entered Australia. Therefore, net figures by category cannot be calculated. Net figures for all movements are given in answer to Question No. 1 736. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the financial year 1977-78, 721 general practitioners and specialists arrived in Australia with migrant visas. A further 1 10 who had come to Australia with temporary entry visas were granted resident status. This group included 60 former students. There is considerable movement of medical practitioners into and out of Australia. Based on information on incoming and outgoing passenger cards, the total numbers of permanent and long-term arrivals and departures of medical practitioners in 1977-78 were 1,519 and 982 respectively with a net gain of 537. The total number of short-term movements in the same year were 5,972 arrivals and 6,334 departures, a net loss of 362. 
) Yes. Whether the facts are as stated there is at issue. 
An Inter-Departmental Committee has been investigating the supply of medical practitioners. In the light of the committee's recommendations, consideration will be given to whether any restriction on the entry of doctors from overseas countries is necessary. 
I emphasise that entry of medical practitioners, as of migrants generally, is controlled. Virtually all doctors who have entered Australia in recent times have been approved because they have firm job offers extended either by health authorities or private medical practitioners. Some others have entered under family reunion categories or as refugees. They have largely entered Australia to fill vacancies. I continue to receive requests for assistance in bringing medical practitioners from overseas to occupy positions which cannot be filled from within Australia. 
I emphasise also that medical practitioners resident overseas but registered in Australia are not guaranteed migrant entry to Australia. Whether they are approved for migrant entry depends on whether they meet entry requirements at the time of application. 
Finally it should be noted that medical practitioners granted resident status as medical practitioners form only a proportion of total applications to immigrate to Australia from medical practitioners. A large number of applications from practitioners are rejected because their qualifications are not recognised here and/or they do not possess suitable employment offers. 
-I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment (No. 2) 1979, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Firstly, I would most emphatically reject any allegation that the treatment accorded to people by the officers of the Department of Immigration is based in any way on race. There is simply no truth in any such allegation. As to the numbers and proportions of people of different races who come within the prohibited migration statistics, I cannot provide them off the top of my head. I will check them out. 
The case mentioned by the honourable member concerned a person who arrived in Australia some years ago, was given a temporary entry permit, was given an extension to that permit and overstayed it by a considerable period. While that person's location was unknown to the Department a deportation order against her was signed. As a result of anonymous information, she was apprehended some time ago and her case was brought to my attention. She was taken to the Villawood Detention Centre. In fact, as a result of representations telephoned to me on Saturday evening- she was to have been deported on the Sunday- that further representations were being made on her behalf, as this was the first time that I had been aware of such representations, I ordered on Saturday evening that her deportation not proceed while those further representations were considered. I again make the categorical statement that any allegations concerning differing treatment based on differing race by officers of my Department have no foundation in fact. 
I have not seen the report attributed to the Johannesburg  Star.  However, the fact is that there has been an upsurge of interest in migration to Australia from southern Africa generally, that is, from both South Africa and Rhodesia. Australia does not maintain an immigration office in Rhodesia. People wishing to migrate to Australia from Rhodesia have to go outside Rhodesia. Most of them travel to Pretoria. The increase in staff in southern Africa has been in response to the general increase in interest in migrating to Australia from that region of the world. 
The Australian Government has made very clear its attitude towards the present situation in Rhodesia. We hope that a peaceful settlement will be achieved in relation to the difficulties being experienced there at the present time. However, should a refugee situation develop in Rhodesia- of course, we hope that it does notthen Australia is in a position to make a considered response to that situation, just as it has a capacity to make a considered response to any refugee situation that may develop anywhere in the world. I make the final point that refugees are refugees, irrespective of the colour of their skin, and that is the way Australia has always treated them. 
I think, as many members on both sides of the House have said during the course of this debate, that this is a most important occasion and we should be discussing a matter of great significance to the future of this country. I think it is utterly regrettable that an incident occurred earlier this evening which only demonstrated the puerility of the approach of some members. I think this did the stature of this House a great deal of harm. I was interested in a number of contributions from members on both sides of the House. I was particularly interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  One of the most disturbing characteristics of recent history has been the decline of democracy throughout the world. 
As I was saying, one of the most disturbing characteristics of recent history has been the decline of democracy throughout the world. We witness almost daily the steady stripping away of individual freedoms- of a person's right to disagree and to have a meaningful opportunity to influence the management of the affairs of his country. Dictatorships of the Left and the Right; one party states; totalitarianism in its ugliest forms, abound and multiply. The honourable member for Swan drew attention to this fact. 
And so did the honourable member for Robertson. Some may suggest that the democratic process has within it the seeds of its own destruction, a fatal weakness centering on its very liberalism, a weakness because of its insistence on allowing and encouraging debate and dissent, a weakness exemplified internally by a failure to deal with small groups holding the nation to ransom and externally by hesitancy in opposing anti-democratic forces and an inability to sustain long term resistence in the event of conflict. 
I do not for a moment believe this 'selfdestruct' theory about democracy. I believe all who value democracy must be aware of the dangers and the stresses that democracies face. Democracies, if they are to survive, and I fervently hope they do, must find the will, the courage and the sheer belief in themselves to resist and repel those internal and external threats to their very existence. I say this because there have been few short periods in world history when events such as those of the past few months have had such threatening implications. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  said: 
Taken together these events represent a deterioration in the international strategic and political environment which has serious implications for our interests, as well as for those of our regional and Western partners. They are of grave concern . . . 
In the modern world no country and no continent can isolate and insulate itself from events in other areas. The events in Iran have important implications for the international economy as well as for the internal stability of that country and of the Middle East. The direct interests of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics stretch from Europe to Vietnam, and it is involving itself directly and through surrogates in Africa, the Indian Ocean and other areas. 
The resurgence of Islam affects countries from Yugoslavia to Indonesia and many African countries I stress that point. The problems of the Middle East and Southern Africa remain unresolved, threatening to involve countries outside the immediate regions. Even in Europe the continuing military imbalance in conventional military strength between the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and Warsaw Pact countries has put at risk the political and strategic stability of one of the largest and most economically important areas in the modern world. This is occurring at a time when the established political leaders grow older and as the long-term relationships between and within countries of the region come under new forms of test. 
As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made clear, the area of our immediate strategic concern is South East Asia and mainland Asia. No responsible government in Australia could fail to be concerned by the immensity of the threat to Australia's and the region's security posed by the fighting now taking place in Kampuchea and hopefully now ending in Vietnam. The Government promptly and correctly determined the course that events in that area were likely to follow. There is no satisfaction for the Government in being able to say 'We told you so'. The situation is much too serious for people to bury their heads in the sands of ideology or of complacency about some goal of Australian non-involvement in areas that do not directly concern us. 
The Government has been frank and honest about the grave consequences of recent events. It must be of great concern to the Australian people that Opposition members, with a few notable exceptions, have sought to reserve their greatest invective not for any of the participants in armed conflict, not for those countries where human rights are not respected, but for Australian governments of the present and the past. 
The invective, admonitions and sermons of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the  Deputy  Leader of" the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the shadow Foreign Minister,  Senator Wriedt,  and the shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  are said to be built on the proud foundation of knowledge, accurate analysis, sound judgment and logic. We are asked to give the utmost credence to the statements of  Senator Wriedt  and the honourable member for Corio. After all, as recently as 22 January this year they issued a joint press statement which accused the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government of seeking overseas issues to defuse local ones. They made the following emphatic judgment: 
The events in Vietnam and Kampuchea are largely the continuation of a long historical struggle between the two countries and it is highly unlikely that any other country including China and the Soviet Union will become involved directly. 
That was not a snap judgment. Two weeks earlier in Hobart  Senator Wriedt  had issued a press statement saying: 
I do not believe that either the Chinese or Soviet Governments will become directly involved in the conflict as neither would be prepared to risk a major confrontation with each other over the dispute. 
So much for the Opposition's knowledge, sound judgments and analysis! Let us look at the Opposition's logic and consistency. On 27 February in the Senate  Senator Wriedt  placed Indonesia in the same category as Vietnam drawing a parallel between East Timor and Kampuchea. He accused this Government of glossing over the enormity of what Indonesia did in that particular episode and his words were reiterated by the Leader of the Opposition in this House. But almost in the same breath  Senator Wriedt  said that if the Australian Government wanted to have the capacity to mediate in any future disputes it must have the trust of both sides and it should be careful about what it said in years gone by as well as in the weeks and months gone by. Obviously the Opposition seeks to have it both ways. As a consequence it is readily exposed as having not thought the matter through and as being bereft of a recognisable and coherent policy. 
We had this evening the performance of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He made a notable contribution to this House. He reserved his greatest invective not for the Australian Government but for the Government of the United States of America. He sought to denigrate the performance of countries which are of the utmost significance to us. He castigated this present Government because of events in relation to East Timor which took place in the past. He was a member of the Government which had to bear, and which has to bear, the utmost stigma for the performance of any Australian Government in relation to such a matter. 
One of the main problem areas of the Opposition is the continuing outflow of refugees from Indo-China, and particularly from Vietnam. The naivete of Opposition spokesmen about the reasons for the outflow, the destabilising effect within the region and, last but by no means least, the grave humanitarian consequences of the outflow is staggering. First, the Opposition said they were not refugees. Then it said they were pimps and prostitutes. Now, in the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this debate, they are the products of half a decade's intensifying sentiment against Vietnamese of Chinese origin. Opposition members should go and talk to refugees who have come to Australia and see how many pimps and prostitutes they can find. They should recognise that many people of other than Chinese origin have sought to leave Vietnam and other countries of Indo-China. Most importantly, they should grasp the fact that the outflow of refugees from Vietnam and other countries has directly affected Australia, just as it has directly affected other countries in the region. Here, of course, the Opposition's solution is to provide more aid to Vietnam. How much aid would have been necessary to improve conditions to a stage where refugees would not seek to flee? How would increased aid have influenced those persons under threat of being sent to new economic zones? But, of course, the honourable member for Reid says that the Australian Government did not know what was going on. He denies that the Vietnamese Government was involved in sending refugees from Vietnam. The facts are undeniable. The Government of Vietnam has been involved in organised movements of people from Vietnam. Should we provide more aid to enable them to make the operations more efficient? 
The Australian Government has taken a leading role in fostering international action to alleviate the problems of Indo-Chinese refugees. We shall continue to use all available means to improve the situation and to involve more countries in refugee assistance and resettlement. I make the point that the question of resettling refugees throughout the world is one of the greatest problems with which Western nations have to contend. 
In view of the matters of grave concern mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs last week, especially the events in the Middle East and South East Asia and the general pattern of strategic instability, with Europe concentrating on its own interests and the United States playing a less active role in the general strategic and political environment, Austrafia must look to its own situation with renewed honesty and perception. We cannot afford to be surprised by changes in the strategic situation. We cannot rely on hope that all will be well. We must not allow ourselves to fall into the trap of believing that what we regard as serious domestic problems are viewed in the same light by other nations, other peoples. 
We should all learn to see ourselves as others see us. Australia is perceived as being a very large country, with very great natural resources, and a small population- a population enjoying a very high standard of living. If we were to attempt to isolate ourselves from the world, if we were to appear selfish in our attitude to our resources, if we were not to play our part in the succour and resettlement of disadvantaged people such as the Indo-Asian refugees, then there would be an ever-increasing resentment towards us, particularly amongst those countries geographically close to us, and amongst the underdeveloped nations throughout the world. It would be a resentment very much against our long-term interests. 
It is fashionable amongst some to say that Australia is part of Asia. I do not think that this is true for a moment. Nor do I think that the Asian nations believe it to be so. I believe that they see us, and we should see ourselves, as a nation with a different cultural heritage but one in a unique position to understand and assist those less developed nations in our geographical region. Because we obviously have no territorial ambitions, because we have proved ourselves a people who, over the years, have resisted tyranny and oppression, because we are willing to share our resources, because we have shown our practical concern and compassion for homeless refugees, and because we have never been part of the ageold rivalries and historic arrangements concerning our Asian neighbours, we nave the capacity to act as an honest broker in an increasingly troubled area of the world. At home the Government believes that it is necessary to be open with the people of Australia about the serious nature of the global geo-political situation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given prior warnings of impending serious situations, explaining our understanding of current and likely future situations, what we are doing now and how we are doing it. He has explained that the only bias this Government has in regional affairs is a bias towards continuing peace and stability. We have made our position clear to other governments and in the United Nations. 
The debate underlines the fact that we cannot ignore questions of self-preservation, of defensive capacity and mutual defence arrangements in our region. I do not believe that there is any serious difference between Government and Opposition on these points. This Government would abdicate its responsibilities if it did not encourage the Australian community to recognise the inter-dependence of international action, to take stock of the implications for Austrafia and to begin to think about the courses we must pursue. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I was very interested in the point made by the honourable members. I want to take only 30 seconds- 
It is about refugees. 
I simply wanted to(Quorum  formed)  I simply rose because the honourable member for Lalor had spoken about a very distinguished man, Albert Einstein, the anniversary of whose birth we will celebrate next week. I wanted to point out to the House and the country that Albert Einstein was a refugee and those people who seek to denigrate the problems that refugees face, and who may not accept refugees as perhaps they should, ought to remember that people like Einstein have contributed enormously to the future of individual countries and the world as a whole. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. until Tuesday, 20 March 1979 at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House, fix an alternative day or hour of meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary 1976 census figures indicate that, at 30 June 1976, 27,062 persons born in Malta were resident in Victoria. No reliable later information is available. 
Of this number, 9,520 or 35 per cent lived in the Electoral Division of Lalor. 
Yes. I declared Malta Star of the Sea House officially open on 1 1 February 1979, and at the same time announced a grant of $1,745 to the organisation to subsidise work of benefit to migrants. 
My Department is currently assessing applications for further grants for social welfare workers for fiscal year 1978- 79 and others for commencement in fiscal year 1979- 80. All of these applications will be given a sympathetic consideration, however there are far more worthy applications for assistance than can possbily be met. 
As the process of consideration is continuous I am not able to give a definite date for a final decision in respect of any one particular organisation. All unsatisfied applications are continually reassessed. 
First it is not correct to say that there has been a 10 per cent increase in the number of illegal immigrants entering Australia. I make the point that most illegal migrants in Australia have entered the country perfectly legally. 
Some have deserted ships, for sure, but most of the people who are prohibited migrants entered the country perfectly legally and have broken the conditions of their entry to Australia by overstaying their visas, by taking employment or by attending educational institutions. I point out also that the problem of illegal migrants and of prohibited migrants is not confined solely to Australia and that every country has within its borders at any one time a significant number of people who are there illegally. I would point out also that as visitor entry to Australia increases- and we all hope to see a rise in the tourist inflow to Australiainevitably a proportion of those people who come as visitors will break the conditions of their entry to Australia. This is something to which the Department is obviously paying very close attention. The current impetus towards greater tourism has real ramifications in terms of the potential for building up the number of overstayed visitors and the number of illegal migrants in Australia. 
In relation to the joint management review, that report came to me in July of last year. It contained some 96 recommendations. Already,5 1 of those recommendations have been implemented. The remainder are under consideration at present. They involve wide-ranging changes to the structure of the Department and, of course, some implications for the Migration Act are included also. Overall, the problem of illegal migrants in Australia is one which has been with us and will remain with us. The Government has to adopt a policy which is fair to all those seeking to enter Australia. I am pleased to say that there is evidence that many illegal migrants, having seen the Government's treatment of people coming under this category, are now accepting the opportunity to depart voluntarily. I hope that all the people who are in Australia illegally take the opportunity to depart voluntarily; if they do not then the law must be, and will be, applied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of short-term visitors from each of the specified countries for the financial Years 1973-74 to 1977- 78 were: 
I did have discussions with Yugoslav Ministers during a visit to Yugoslavia just prior to Christmas and I did raise the question of the problems experienced by Australian citizens of Yugoslav origin. It is a fact that, despite taking out Australian citizenship, people from Yugoslavia do not automatically relinquish their Yugoslav citizenship and all that that entails, including the obligation to undertake military service. It was explained to me that it is possible to renounce Yugoslav citizenship, but that decision is taken at the republican government level rather than at the central government level. 
As I have already mentioned, this is a problem for Australian citizens of Yugoslav origin visiting that country. I raised with Ministers in Yugoslavia the question of Australian citizens who were undergoing military service. I am very pleased to be able to say that three Australian citizens who were undergoing military service have had that obligation reviewed and at the very highest level two have had their obligations set aside. One has undertaken to continue his military service but at a much reduced time scale. 
I am very pleased that the discussions with the Yugoslav Government have resulted in this understanding of Australian citizens' points of view and I am very hopeful that the discussions which will continue with the Yugoslav Government, relating to the question of dual nationality, will have a mutually acceptable result. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No accurate separate identification of settler arrivals is possible for the period prior to January 1959, as the only available statistics relate to the total of permanent and longterm movement. However, estimates have been made of settler arrivals by country of citizenship for this period. 
It is not possible to differentiate in the statistics between the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany. The statistics are based on Passenger Cards filled out by travellers on arrival in Australia, and on these a large proportion of settlers describe themselves simply as 
German citizens, and not as citizens of either East or West Germany. 
The estimated number of settler arrivals by country of citizenship for the period January 1945 to December 1978 is as follows: 
by leave- For the information of honourable members, I present the 1978 report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. In tabling the tenth annual report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications (COPQ), it gives me pleasure to draw to the attention of the House the achievements of the Committee. The Committee, assisted by over 100 advisers- men and women of eminence in their own professions- has undoubtedly established itself as the principal authority in Australia on qualifications gained overseas and, as such, is a central reference point for professional bodies, registration authorities, universities, public and private employers and individual applicants who seek advice in evaluating foreign degrees, diplomas and professional experience. Inevitably, as the work of the Committee has become more and more widely known overseas, the call upon its services for information and expertise by similar organisations in other countries has grown. Australia, as a forerunner in this field, may feel proud that it has established a single authority responsible for co-ordinating the recognition of overseas professional qualifications. I would like to acknowledge the foresight of the Government, in 1969, in setting up the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications, and the support and encouragement of successive governments, in furthering its aims. I also acknowledge the statement made by the Opposition spokesman on immigration and ethnic affairs, the Member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Moss Cass),  when I tabled the Committee's seventh annual report. Registration authorities are State bodies, and positive State co-operation is vital to COPQ's progress. The tenth annual report makes frequent reference to the problems of interstate differences, and pays tribute to the cooperation given by the States in much of its work. To this I would add the expression of my own appreciation, and belief that such support will continue and grow. 
It is important, I feel, to stress the community value of the Committee's work. Degrees and diplomas suggest the remote and the academic. Those who hold them, however, are human beings, migrants whose self-respect requires that they are considered for employment at a level attuned to their qualifications. The Committee through its expert panels has become increasingly involved in the practical problems of individual migrants, rather than, as had earlier been the case, in the theoretical issues related to educational and professional evaluation. The report reflects the extent to which COPQ is committed to serve the individual. The Committee's Expert Panel in Generalist Qualifications alone, for example, has provided over 800 migrants holding degrees from often little known colleges and universities, with formal assessments of their qualifications, with a view to assisting them find suitable employment at an appropriate level in the Australian workforce. 
The Committee 's value is further evidenced by the way in which it is able to respond to the needs of those whose qualifications are largely unknown in the Australian context. Screening examinations and procedures developed by the Committe's advisers in dentistry, medicine, nursing, pharmacy and physiotherapy, and being developed in dietetics, occupational therapy and veterinary science, provide an independent and objective means for people to demonstrate on a national scale their competence to practice these professions here. These means simply did not exist before the Committee came into being. 
In response to requests from the community at large the Government decided last year to extend the Committee's terms of reference and to ask it to provide advice not only on professional or tertiary level qualifications but also where needed on all overseas qualifications other than those gained at the trade level which are already assessed by the Local Trades Committees. Procedures are currently being devised to assist migrants who hold sub-professional and technical qualifications in certain of the Committee's original areas of responsibility. In those occupational areas where the Committee has not previously been active it has sought the advice of sub-professional bodies, registration authorities and employing organisations in the public and private sector to determine where it might most usefully provide a service. 
On the occasion of its tenth anniversary I congratulate the Committee on the work it has done and express my confidence that its progress to date will continue unabated. I commend the report to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Although departure tax and exempt stamps adhere satisfactorily to the majority of travel tickets, my Department has received reports concerning lack of adhesion to some Qantas tickets. Tests have shown this to be due to a high gloss surface coating of non-porous varnish. 
Following discussions between my Department and Qantas the tickets in question have been redesigned to allow satisfactory adherence of stamps. 
(a) See (1). 
Staff of my Department staple tax and exempt stamps to those tickets with a high gloss finish. When travellers do not present a ticket to staff, they are advised to affix the tax stamp by stapling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics on last place of residence of overstayed visitors are not maintained. The table hereunder sets out as at 30 June 1 978 the numbers of persons claiming citizenship of the United Kingdom and Colonies who arrived in the periods shown and are still recorded as overstayed. The limitations related to these figures as explained in the reply of 16 November 1978 to Question No. 2285 still apply. 
* Latest period available. 
Deportation statistics are disaggregated by citizenship but not by country of domicile. Persons listed as citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies who were deported from Australia 1 975- 1 978 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table shows for the calendar year 1978, the numbers of persons included in visitor visas lodged at Australian Embassies, High Commissions and Consular Offices in each of the respective countries and the numbers of persons included in visitor visas which were refused. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of illegal immigrants detained who have had in their possession forged passports and/or identifications are not maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The criteria currently employed in determining applications for temporary entry to Australia by private overseas students may be summarised as follows: 
Prospective students may be granted visas for temporary entry to undertake full-time post-secondary studies provided they are able to establish to the satisfaction of the relevant overseas post that: the proposed course of study or its equivalent is not available in their home country or country of residence; such study is of worthwhile content and duration leading to a qualification which would be recognised or be of value in relation to future employment opportunities in the home country or country of residence; they have the capacity (including a satisfactory knowledge of English) to undertake their proposed course of study; they gain enrolment in an Australian educational institution to undertake the approved course of study; they have a financial guarantor who will meet the costs of their fares to and from Australia, their fees and maintenance; they have a genuine intention to enter Australia on a temporary basis for study purposes only and will depart from Australia on the completion of their approved course of study or if they abandon studies; they have passports or travel authorities valid for reentry into their home country or country of residence; and they meet health and character requirements. 
Entry for studies below post-secondary level is not normally permitted, but special approval may be given to undertake the last two years of the Australian secondary school course as a preliminary to an acceptable postsecondary course. 
The assessment of applications by sponsored students to come to Australia falls within the responsibilities of  my  colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) English editions of the NUMAS leaflet were distributed on 31 January 1979 to Australian posts overseas in English speaking countries as well as to all other posts that had indicated they required supplies. 
The text is being translated and printed in twenty-one other languages. Between 31 January 1979 and 21 March 1979, eleven of these foreign-language editions had been completed and distributed to posts in countries of the languages as well as to other posts which indicated a need for them. 
Languages covered in the NUMAS printing program are: 
*English, Arabic, Chinese, Danish,*Dutch,*Finnish, *French,*German, Greek,*Italian, Japanese, Macedonian,*Maltese, Norwegian, Polish,*Portuguese, *Serbo-Croat (Cyrillic),*Serbo-Croat (Latin),*Slovenian, *Spanish,*Swedish, Turkish. 
* Indicates the languages already distributed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) No. The Committee on Determination of Refugee Status examines all cases referred to it as soon as is practicable after all the relevant information sought by the Committee on a particular case has been obtained. 
In this case, the information received by the Committee had been assembled by the Department of Foreign Affairs in considering her application for political asylum. 
) The United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, as amended by the Protocol, defines a refugee as a person who, 'owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. ' 
Through its ratification of the Convention and Protocol, the Government is guided in its application of its refugee policy by this definition. 
In order to be granted refugee status, applicants must be able to substantiate that their particular case comes within the parameters of the definition. 
I am not aware of any such suggestions. 
A total of 794 persons who had entered the country legally and who have since contravened the Commonwealth's immigration laws were deported in the period 1 January1978 to 20 March1979. 
In the same period a total of 303 deportations were effected in respect of those persons who had entered Australia illegally. 
Preliminary statistics indicate that15 1,346 individuals applied for migration to Australia from1 January1978 to 28 February 1979. 80,258 applications were rejected in the same period. 
(a) 7,515 applications were lodged by temporary residents in Australia for permanent residence in the period1 January1978 to 3 1 December 1978. 
357 applications were rejected. 
2,643 (of the 7,515 lodged) were still outstanding on 31 December1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendments to the Payroll Tax Assessment Act, which remains in effect only for the purpose of collecting payroll tax that became due prior to the transfer of payroll tax to the States. It also is consequential on the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill introduced a little while ago. The Bill is more fully explained in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill which proposes amendments to the Payroll Tax (Territories) Assessment Act is the last of the measures that arise from the proposed abolition of the valuation boards by the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill. The Bill is more fully dealt with in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill also proposes consequential amendments to the Gift Duty Assessment Act arising from the proposed abolition of the valuation boards. An explanation of the purpose of the Bill was given in my second reading speech on the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill and is more fully dealt with in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Income Tax Assessment Act in consequence of the proposed abolition of the valuation boards by the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill. As I indicated in speaking on the first of this group of Bills, the present amendments are concerned with the establishment of the financial position of taxpayers who apply to the Relief Board for release from payment of income tax. They are explained more fully in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes consequential amendments to the Estate Duty Assessment Act arising from the proposed abolition of the Valuation Boards by the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill just introduced. An explanation of the purpose of the Bill, which is part of a package of six Bills, was given in my second reading speech on the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill and is more fully dealt with in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
My attention was drawn this morning to a newspaper report concerning the daughter of a German couple who are resident in Australia. The daughter and her young son arrived as visitors to Australia, I think in July last year. Shortly after arrival, the daughter was brought to my Department to speak to some social welfare workers in the Department in relation to continued entry in Australia. At that stage no application for continued entry was made to my Department. As you would understand,  Mr Speaker,  the policy in relation to change of status in Australia was announced in June of last year. Under that policy the young lady and her son were not eligible for change of status. The case then lapsed. No more was heard of the young lady until this year when again an approach was made. Again, the advice was given that the change of status was not available. However, no deportation order has been served. As I said, the case has come to my attention only this morning. There was an indication that the elderly couple would be approaching their member of Parliament. I am not quite sure whether that has occurred. Their member of Parliament is you,  Mr Speaker.  As far as I am aware, I have not received any representations on the case from you or your office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and five further Bills I will introduce shortly propose amendments to various taxation laws to abolish the Valuation Boards, to transfer the functions of those boards to the Taxation Boards of Review and to enable particular duties of the  Chairman  of the Valuation Boards to be performed by a member or secretary of a Taxation Board of Review. The principal Bill is the Taxation Administration Amendment Bill which proposes amendments to the Taxation Administration Act, under which the Valuation Boards are established, to abolish the boards. With the abolition of Commonwealth estate and gift duties on and from 1 July this year, the primary task of the Valuation Boards to determine disputes about property valuations made by the Commissioner of Taxation for the purposes of estate and gift duty assessments will gradually disappear. It is proposed that the functions previously carried out by the Valuation Boards be transferred to the Taxation Boards of Review. The Boards of Review are established under the Income Tax Assessment Act and review decisions of the Commissioner of Taxation under the income tax law and other Commonwealth taxing laws. These boards, which already have experience in determining valuation matters in income tax matters and under the stamp duty laws of the Australian Capital Territory, at present deal with matters other than questions of valuation that arise under the estate duty and gift duty laws. A person who is dissatisfied with the decision of a Board of Review has a right of appeal to a Supreme Court and that right will remain. 
The  Chairman  of the Valuation Boards has an additional statutory function in relation to income tax, estate duty and pay-roll tax, and that is to inquire into and report on the financial position of persons who seek to be released from payment where exaction of the full amount of tax or duty would entail serious hardship. A Relief Board consisting of the Commissioner of Taxation, the Secretary to the Department of Finance and the Comptroller-General of Customs, or their substitutes, then determines, on the basis of the report, whether this release should be granted. The function of reporting on the financial position of persons applying for relief is to be transferred to the Taxation Boards of Review to be dealt with, as the  Chairman  of the Board of Review concerned decides, by either himself, another member of the Board or the Secretary to the Board. The Relief Board will continue to make the decision concerning release from tax or duty. I should explain that, at the present time, the position of  Chairman  of the Valuation Boards is vacant, the last occupant having reached retiring age and retired several weeks ago. Members of a board are part time appointees, generally professional valuers or accountants, who receive a fee for each sitting of a board they attend. Details of the amendments are contained in an explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill relates to provisions in the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act which apply to television sets, radios and sound equipment such as record players and tape players, and to records, tape recordings and parts and accessories for equipment of these kinds. Sales tax at the rate of 2 71/2 per cent is payable on television and radio receivers, record players, tape recorders, tape players and various combinations of those appliances specified in items in the Second Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. Tax at that rate is also payable on records, tape recordings of music or other entertainment material and on parts, accessories and other specified classes of goods associated with television, radio and sound equipment. 
Due to changes resulting from technological advances over the years and to new terminology, doubts have been raised about the application of the 271/2 per cent rate to certain television, radio and sound appliances or components which are used in combination or association to provide television or radio reception or sound reproduction. The Bill will re-express the relevant provisions to remove any such doubts. It will ensure that tax at the rate of 271/2 per cent is payable on appliances or components that, either alone or in association with each other, are used primarily or principally for the reception of television or radio programs, the reproduction of sound from records, tapes or wires, the recording of sound on tapes or wires or for any two or more of those functions. Included among the appliances which will be specifically taxed at 271/2 per cent are clock radios but radio transceivers will continue to bear tax at the rate of 1 5 per cent. 
Special provisions are included in the Bill to cater for goods which contain television, radio or sound equipment but which also have other functional uses. An article in this category will be taxed at 271/2 per cent if the value of the television, radio or sound equipment is more than one half of the value of the complete article. An example of such an article might be a piece of furniture which has a section designed for use as a cocktail cabinet and which also includes built in record and cassette player equipment. The article would be taxable at 271/2 per cent if the value of the record and cassette player components made up more than half the value of the complete article. The tax on records and on sound tape recordings will remain unchanged at 271/2 per cent. That rate will continue to apply also to parts and accessories for television, radio and sound equipment at present taxed at 271/2 per cent; and to envelopes, stands, cabinets and other goods for the storage of records. Furthermore, the rate of tax on cassette racks and holders and other goods used for storage of tape recordings will be brought into line with the 271/2 per cent rate levied on storage equipment for records. 
In accordance with long-standing practice with sales tax measures of this kind, the Bill will be effective from tomorrow, 25 May 1979. Details of the various provisions in the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum which is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to put into effect three of the decisions affecting income tax that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced, and explained at some length, earlier tonight. 
Trading Stock Valuation Adjustment 
A major feature of the Bill is a provision to terminate the trading stock valuation adjustment with effect from the commencement of the 1979-80 income year. Reasons for this action were given in the Treasurer's statement. As firms entitled to the TSVA deduction will pay tax in 1979-80 on the basis of 1978-79 incomes, the continued availability of the deduction for the 1978- 79 income year will benefit them in 1979- 80. 
PA YE deductions from salaries and wages 
Reflecting our present decisions, the Bill contains legislation which will specifically authorise the continued application of existing rates of pay-as-you-earn deductions from salaries and wages until 30 November 1979, or such earlier date by which decisions arising out of the 1979-80 Budget might be implemented. It would not be profitable to go over all the ground the Treasurer covered in his earlier statement, but I do wish to stress certain matters. 
The major point is that the most appropriate time to make a responsible and informed decision about income tax rates for 1979-80 is at the traditional time when the coming Budget is being finalised. At that stage, the outcome of revenue and expenditures for 1978-79 will be known, and the outlook for 1979-80 can be more accurately gauged. Yet it is already clear that it would be imprudent to allow the substantial drop in income tax revenue that would occur from 1 July 1979 if things were allowed to take their course from the present law. 
The Government has accordingly decided to continue the present level of PAYE deductions from salaries and wages beyond 30 June 1979 until the decision about personal tax rates for 1979-80 as a whole, to be announced in the Budget Speech, can be implemented- but no later than 30 November 1979. It is not necessary that there be any corresponding holding action in relation to 1979-80 provisional tax. That tax is not payable before 3 1 March 1980. 
Tax Indexation Factor 
The Bill will also amend the provisions of the income tax law that fix the factor by which the income ranges in the personal income tax rate scale, and concessional rebates, are indexed. Under the present law, in determining the indexation factor for a year, the increase in the average level of the consumer price index for the 12 months ended the previous 31 March over its average level in the preceding year is taken as a basis. This may then be adjusted to exclude the effects on the consumer price index of certain matters, the main one of which is indirect taxes. 
The Government has decided that the indexation factor should be adjusted to take account of the first two steps which were taken on 17 August 1977 and 1 July 1978 to phase in the adoption of import parity pricing for locally produced crude oil. These steps represented a policy aimed at improving the allocation of resources in relation to crude oil exploration, production and consumption, and it would therefore be quite inappropriate to take action, through the tax indexation mechanism, to offset their effects on consumption. The Bill proposes to amend the law to permit this adjustment. An explanatory memorandum explaining the technical features of the 
Bill is being made available to honourable members. 
Finally, I note that the matter of denying the carry-forward of paper losses arising from involvement in tax avoidance schemes which the Treasurer also announced earlier this evening is not included in the Bill, but will be brought before the Parliament in legislative form in the Budget sittings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters for the period 14 September 1977 to 31 December 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)964;(b)222. 
Separate statistics relating to overstayed visitors are not maintained. The break-up of deportations effected is shown in broad terms in the following table. 
* The majority of these would be visitors who overstayed their temporary entry permits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the 1976 Census, 36,638 persons describing themselves as of Chinese racial origin were resident in Australia. 
I am advised by the Australian Statistician that tabulations of 1976 Census data as currently planned up to September 1979 do not provide information on the numbers of persons of Chinese racial origin in individual electorates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 have no information that would support the allegation that  Mr Renzo  di Piramo was sentenced by the Swiss Federal Court in absentia to five years imprisonment for bank frauds. 

 Mr di Piramo arrived in Australia in 1973 and was given resident status in November 1973. He was granted citizenship on 6 August 1976 following completion of normal inquiries. Nothing was disclosed to give reason to doubt his eligibility. 
Passenger cards would show  Mr di  Piramo 's movements in and out of Australia subsequent to 6 August 1 976. To disclose details would seem unwarranted in the present circumstances, and could well be considered an intrusion on the individual's privacy. 

 Mr di Piramo is still an Australian citizen. I am informed that he holds an Australian passport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Two temporary and one permanent staff are currently employed on a continuing basis at the Parramatta Migrant Resource Centre. Additionally one temporary employee has been located at that office for a period of about seventeen weeks to deal with matters relating to the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
I thank the honourable member for Phillip for his question because I know of his strong and continuing interest in the reunification of Jewish families from the Soviet Union with their families in Australia. I have noticed reports in the newspapers on this matter, and I think that the Leader of the Opposition could be pardoned for imagining that some sort of campaign was being waged against him. Looking at the situation, we know from time past that there has been strong pressure on the Soviet authorities for liberalisation in relation to the emigration of Soviet Jews, particularly dissidents. There has been, of course, some strong evidence in recent years of a liberalisation of the Soviet policy. I am not sure from the accounts that have so far come to me whether any significant breakthrough has been achieved by  Mr Hawke.  I am not sure whether he was acting in his individual capacity; I do not think that he was acting as a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party. 
I think it is useful to say at this stage that the Australian Government welcomes any liberalisation in Soviet policies in relation to these people. It is also useful to take into account the background of the situation. The emigration of Soviet Jews began in about 1973 when people were allowed out nominally to settle in Israel. Since that time about half of those leaving the Soviet Union have settled in Israel. The remainder have settled in countries such as Australia, Canada and the United States. The Australian record during the administration of the previous Government was an unfortunate one, to say the least. In 1973, 100 people from the Soviet Union were allowed to resettle in Australia. In 1 974 that figure rose enormously. It reached 120. We can contrast those figures with the attitude and record of the present Government. This year some 1,200 Soviet Jews will be resettled in Australia. We have been in constant discussion with the Australian- Jewish welfare societies and the Federal Catholic Immigration Committee. As recently as 29 April this year- before  Mr Hawke  made his much celebrated and publicised visit to the Soviet Union- I gave permission for an additional SO families, covering 250 to 300 people, to be added to the numbers already being resettled in Australia. 
There has been a liberalisation of the Soviet attitude towards the emigration of Soviet Jews. About 1,200 to 1,500 a month were allowed to leave last year. That figure has escalated to 3,000 to 4,000 a month this year. It is hard to believe that a sudden breakthrough has been achieved. I certainly would be anxious to see the details of any arrangements that  Mr Hawke  has entered into. I can say only that he has joined with the Government. For some years the Government has been carrying on in an active and positive way a program of reunification of families from the Soviet Union with their Jewish relatives in Australia. The final point I make is that this is in marked and absolute contrast to the performance of our Labor predecessors. 
I am aware that there is a great deal of goodwill throughout the Australian community. This goodwill is directed towards assisting the resettlement of refugees in this country. The refugee policy that is administered by my Department covers the settlement of people coming to Australia under these circumstances and deals with things such as housing, language training and employment assistance. The whole process is given great support by voluntary agencies throughout Australia. The agencies give support and material assistance in general welfare activities, hosting and friendship schemes and the movement of the refugees from the hostels to private accommodation. 
The voluntary agencies concerned with this assistance vary from State to State. Rather than give a specific response to the question, might I say that anybody who is interested in making assistance available should contact the State branch of my Department for a list of the voluntary agencies which are operating in that State and in the relevant area. All offers of help would be very gratefully received because I believe it is tremendously important that the Australian community as a whole not only understands the nature of the refugee problem which is to our north but also in building on that understanding, contributes to the welcome and the resettlement of these people in the Australian community. 
For the information of honourable members I present a paper entitled 'Multiculturalism and its Implications for Immigration Policy' prepared jointly by the 
Australian Population and Immigration Council and the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council together with a text of a statement relating to the paper. 
in reply- I can give the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  those assurances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are two sources of data on the occupation and skills of settler arrivals: 
Australian Bureau of Statistics data derived from occupation as stated by individual settlers on arrival. Only 1976-77 figures are available as yet. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs data. These are based on evaluation of skills at the time of selection and hence provide a more reliable indicator of migrants' skills than the self-description data used by ABS. However settlers from New Zealand are excluded from the figures as they do not require individual selection. DIEA figures are not readily available before 1977-78. 
With this background, recorded settler arrivals of skilled plumbers, carpenters and electricians for the relevant periods were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The following table shows the estimated number of aliens 16 years of age and over who were residentially qualified by virtue of 3 years' residence in Australia, to apply for the grant of Australian citizenship, but who had not done so as at 3 1 October 1978: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
) The recommendations do not affect Australian residents from the countries cited who are Australian citizens. 
For non-citizen residents the effect of implementing the recommendations would be that persons from the following countries who are not now eligible for permanent appointment to the Australian Public Service would become eligible: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to provide certain new exemptions that are included in the Budget proposals and to give effect to the sales tax measures announced in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 27 June detailing the Government's energy policy. The new exemptions relate to goods for use by blind or deaf persons, to antiques and to player piano rolls. 
The sales tax law now provides exemption for specified types of goods used by blind or deaf persons. However, technological advances often bring forth new aids and appliances for the blind and deaf. Because of the specific terms of the present exemption, these new devices are, in the main, taxable at 15 per cent. The amendment now proposed will provide an exemption of a general nature for goods designed and manufactured expressly for use by blind persons or deaf persons and which are not of a kind ordinarily used by persons who do not suffer from these disabilities. New devices in this category will in future automatically qualify for exemption without the need for legislative amendments. Exemption is also being provided for imported antiques, that is, goods which are more than 100 years old. Australian antiques are not subject to sales tax and imported works of art are generally exempt also. The new exemption for other imported antiques puts them on an equal footing with Australian antiques and imported works of art. 
A further exemption in the Bill will apply to player piano rolls, which are now taxable at 15 per cent. These are currently manufactured by only a few companies in the world, one of which is in Australia. This company undertakes valuable work in preserving the works and playing styles of many great pianists. This new exemption will assist this highly specialised activity .The exemptions for goods for use by blind or deaf persons and for imported antiques and player piano rolls will apply from tomorrow, 22 August 1979. 
Turning to the exemptions relating to the Government's energy policy, these sales tax measures are aimed at assisting the fulfilment of the objective of encouraging conservation of scarce sources of energy- in particular, liquid fuels other than liquefied petroleum gas- and promoting the use of alternative energy such as natural gas, LPG, coal-based electricity and solar energy. The provisions in the amending Bill which will give effect to that policy in the sales tax area will exempt goods for use in the conversion of internal combustion engines to liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas operation, non-oil burning domestic space heating appliances and various solar energy appliances. These exemptions are to have effect on and from 28 June 1979, the day after the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  As compressed natural gas is emerging as an alternative motor vehicle fuel, it is proposed that the exemption for engine conversion kits apply to goods for use in conversions to natural gas as well as to conversions to LPG. It will also apply to goods for use in converting marine engines or stationary engines to LPG or CNG operation. 
Domestic space heating appliances of the built-in type are largely exempt from sales tax under the existing law. Portable domestic heating appliances are taxable at 2.5 per cent. The exemption for non-oil burning domestic space heating appliances will apply mainly to portable domestic space heaters, other than kerosene heaters. It will not apply to household air conditioners. These and household kerosene heaters will remain taxable at 2.5 per cent. Solar energy is rapidly becoming an alternative energy source, particularly for water heating systems. Household water heating and hot water systems of the fixture type, including solar water heaters, are already exempt from sales tax. The new exemption for solar energy equipment will apply to devices such as solar collectors, absorbers and concentrators which are essential to the effective use of the sun as a source of heat energy, and to photovoltaic cells which convert solar energy to electricity. Thus solar collectors, absorbers and concentrators which are for use in industrial installations or in heating water for swimming pools will be covered by the exemption. The provisions of the Bill are explained in more detail in an explanatory memorandum which is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table gives the number of migrants granted assisted passage in their respective countries of last residence by year of arrival: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Under Australia's migrant screening procedures, all applications are assessed to ascertain whether applications meet basic eligibility criteria for immigration. 
The application forms of persons meeting the basic eligibility requirements are then assessed to avoid calling to interview persons who would be unable to meet NUMAS requirements regardless of their assessment on other factors; this is intended to avoid unnecessary interviews and giving false hope to persons who would clearly not meet interview requirements. This pre-interview screening is based largely on the NUMAS factors, occupational skills, occupational demand, pre-arranged employment, age and transferable assets for resettlement, which can be assessed from information given on application forms. 
Criteria remain uniform throughout the world. However, differences in systems and standards from country to country necessitate variations in the sequence in which the various screening measures are undertaken. For example, in countries where documentary evidence of trade training is difficult to obtain and authenticate, assessment of qualifications would be left to a late stage of the procedures after applicants had met other requirements; in countries where documentation was readily available, this would be assessed at an early stage. Therefore, rejections on the basis of nonrecognition of qualifications might occur pre-interview in some posts and post-interview in others. For this reason, comparative statistics on rejection rates are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It would appear that the honourable member is referring to Vietnamese claiming to be refugees who have arrived without prior authority direct at Australian shores. 
a ) 2011 persons have arrived in this manner; 
1554 so far have been approved for permanent resident status. The others have temporary entry permits pending further investigations of their applications for refugee status by the Determination of Refugee Status Committee. 
) This depends on a number of variables not the least of which is whether the outflow continues from Vietnam. 
Decisions would be taken at the time of arrival on whether the people aboard should be allowed to land. Their circumstances would be carefully evaluated and they would be subject to the same stringent screening procedures and investigations about their refugee status as earlier arrivals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The deportation of  Mr Kalajdic  had not been ordered and newspaper reports inferring that he committed suicide because he feared deportation may not be soundly based. He was to have been considered for deportation and officers of my Department were in the process of collating all of the pertinent information for submission to me. 
I am informed that although  Mr Kalajdic  had at one time indicated that he would fear for his life if he were to be returned to Yugoslavia it was ascertained during an in-depth interview with him on 21 December 1978, some three months before he took his life, that his apprehension was because he had left Yugoslavia illegally and had not fulfilled his national service obligations in his homeland. It is presumed that he would have expected some form of punishment as a result should his deportation have been ordered. 
and (4) See answer No. 2 above. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
l ) and (2) The following grants-in-aid to assist organisations in the Electoral Division of Sydney to employ social welfare workers have been granted on the dates stated; the total amount of funding for each organisation is also listed. Since the inception of the scheme in 1 968 numerous inquiries have been made about the availability of funds for social welfare purposes and it is not possible to provide details of these inquiries. There is only one formal application outstanding for a grant-in-aid- INCA Institute Nazionale Confederate di Assistenza (Welfare Institute for Italian Workers in Australia ) which at this stage has been neither accepted or rejected. Records do not reveal any formal application from an organisation within the Electoral Division of Sydney which was lodged since the Scheme came within my portfolio in December 1977 and which was subsequently refused. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commonwealth funds have been provided to Good Neighbour Councils through my Depanment since 1950, except for a brief period when the Depanment of Social Security was the funding Department. While the activities of all the Councils have been oversighted and guided through a position of Co-ordinator in my Department, Good Neighbour Councils are independent, autonomous bodies. Individual Councils employ their own staff, and although salaries are paid from Commonwealth Grant-in-Aid funds,  members of the staff are not public servants. 
The 'Review of Post- Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants' headed by  Mr Frank  Galbally, C.B.E., recommended that Commonwealth funding of the Good Neighbour Councils should be phased out over a period of two years. The Government, after giving very careful consideration to the Galbally recommendation, accepted it and other recommendations in the report in full. 
A Working Party as proposed in the Galbally Report (para. 6.43) was established at a Conference of Good Neighbour Presidents and Directors held in Canberra on 19 June 1978. 
Since then the Working Party has visited all Councils and has established tri-partite regional committees, comprising representatives of the Public Service Board, the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, in each State and Territory, to follow up with detailed interviews- of ail council staff and to co-operate, in efforts, to find them alternative employment. 
Detailed staff profiles have also been sent to State and Local Government bodies. 
The Prime Minister wrote to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs asking that the Commonwealth Employment Service make special efforts to assist Good Neighbour staff to obtain employment. 
All Good Neighbour applicants for recently advertised Ethnic Affairs and Settlement Officers' positions in my Department were interviewed and these interviews are currently being evaluated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) All such allegations are initially examined within my Department. Any allegation which is assessed as being of a potentially serious nature is referred to the Commonwealth Police Force for investigation. 
No. Bribery and the soliciting of bribes are offences under the Crimes Act 1914, while soliciting and/or accepting gifts are offences under the Public Service Act 1 922. 
and (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1975- 
1 ) One survey. 
(a) No companies or private individuals were commissioned. 
A survey of interpreting and translating needs in the community. It included interviews and questionnaires to (1 ) new settlers, (2) ethnic and welfare organisations, (3) key organisations in the field of health and medical welfare, (4) key individuals in migrant welfare. 
Not applicable. 1976-Nil. 
1977- 
1 ) One survey. 
(a) No companies or private individuals were commissioned. 
A survey of public response to services in the inquiry area. The survey involved interviews with members of the general public using the inquiry area of the Department's Melbourne office to assess the effectiveness of the services provided. 
Not applicable. 
1978- 
1 ) Four surveys, 2 not yet completed. 
Project 1- (a) Conducted by Departmental officers with privately contracted interpreters. 
Evaluation of resettlement experiences of IndoChinese Refugees to provide data for policy development. 
1978 and1979-$30,000. Further funds are being sought to enable completion of survey work during 1 979-80. 
Project 2-(a) W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd of North Sydney (with the Australian Sales Research Bureau as subcontractor for the field work) has been commissioned to carry out the survey, which is to be completed by August 1979. 
Migrant Information Needs Survey- to meet the requirements of recommendation 18 of the report on the review of post-arrival services and programs for migrants. 
$ 1 50,000 provided for the project. 
Project 3- (a) No companies or private individuals commissioned. 
Survey of the needs for various migrant services in the Western Suburbs of Melbourne. 
Not applicable. 
Project 4 (a) No companies or private individuals commissioned. 
Survey of Departures from Australia. Departing passengers were interviewed- to examine reasons for departure. This information is required for the administration of the outgoing passenger card system and the interpretation of the statistics collected. 
Not applicable. 
1979- 
1 ) Two surveys. 
Project 1- (a) No companies or private individuals commissioned. 
Survey of persons intending to apply for NAATI accreditation as translators and interpreters. The purpose of the survey was to enable arrangements to be made for testing and accreditation, and to obtain an overall picture of the structure of the translating and interpreting profession in Australia. 
Not applicable. 
Project 2- (a) No companies or private individuals commissioned. 
Geelong Area Office feasibility survey in connection with the establishment of an area office. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) After deserting her ship  Ms Gasinskaya  made a request for political asylum. When her request was not approved, she made an application for refugee status and her case was examined by the Determination of Refugee Status Committee. The Committee recommended her application for approval and I subsequently granted  Ms Gasinskaya  refugee status and permanent residence in Australia after taking the Committee 's recommendation into account. 
and (4) I am not aware of any assistance provided to  Ms Gasinskaya  by anyone associated with News Ltd, or by any other organisation or individual, in representing her case to my Department. 
While officers of my Department sometimes have cause to use Commonwealth transport for the movement of persons with whom they are in official contact, I am informed that the records of my Department do not show any booking in respect of  Ms Gasinskaya  on or about 16 Januaty 1979. 
by leave- I should like to elaborate on three matters mentioned in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  concerning matters within the immigration and ethnic affairs portfolio. A decision has been taken by the Government to introduce an annual charge on overseas students undertaking courses at Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. This is one aspect of decisions on a new policy for private overseas students taken by the Government following a comprehensive review of overseas student policy. The Government believes that the overseas student program has helped to promote better understanding of Australia, its people and attitudes. The program has made an important contribution to international cultural exchange and goodwill and provided benefits to developing countries, especially those in areas close to Australia, through additional educational opportunities and skilled manpower training for their people. However, in the period since 1973, the policy has not worked as effectively as it should have to meet the general objectives of the overseas student program. 
The criteria for entry have been based mainly on the inability of students to obtain enrolment in courses in their home countries. This has sometimes led to students proposing to undertake courses of little value to the home country but thereby gaining preference over other students of higher academic ability and other students seeking to undertake courses which would be useful to the home country. In addition, although students have been admitted on the clear understanding that they would return to their home countries on completion of their studies, substantial numbers have sought and obtained permanent residence. Almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies in recent years have applied successfully for resident status. This development has negated the main objectives of the program. 
The Government has acted to remove arbitrary limitations on the number of overseas students who may be approved for study in Australia. It has also decided on important changes following the review of policy and procedures. The Government recognises that such policy changes can have implications for other countries which have traditionally sent large numbers of students to Australia. Accordingly, the proposed changes are being discussed with the governments of the main source countries of students before their implementation. The views of those governments will be considered carefully before the proposals are finally implemented. 
The Government believes that schemes for people wishing to come here for English language studies, specialised training and under student exchanges are particularly useful in achieving the objectives of the private overseas student program. In future, no numerical limitations will be applied to them. These schemes will be closely monitored to ensure that there is no undue strain on Australian resources or loss of opportunity for Australian students. In addition, many of the restrictions placed on the eligibility of people to participate in these schemes will be removed. In the main, people entering Australia for English language and specialised training courses pay commercial fees and, therefore, will be exempted from the proposed overseas student charge. 
New private student criteria are being developed for selecting students from among the tens of thousands of persons applying annually for entry to Australia for studies. The criteria pay particular attention to training capacity in Australia without displacement of local students and take into account such factors as academic ability, the value of the proposed course to the applicant and the home country, country of origin and opportunities for study in the home country. Priority in selection will go to students sponsored by home governments and others such as those granted scholarships and those undertaking post-graduate research within Australian universities. These criteria should enable more students to be accepted from a wider group of countries. Preference will be given to those with high academic ability and those wishing to acquire qualifications that will be of particular use to them in their future careers. The criteria will apply next year to those students seeking to come here for the 1981 academic year. 
Provision will be made for entry for secondary studies from certain countries where there is a need for, or advantage in, providing training at this level. There will also be cases where there are special links with Australia. Whilst there will be no limits on numbers accepted, it is not expected that the numbers in this category will be substantial as most countries now have extensive secondary educational systems and many prefer their students to complete their basic education in the national system. 
I turn now to the proposal to introduce an annual charge on overseas students as announced by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech. 
A constraint on the numbers of private overseas students approved to come to Australia to undertake formal courses of study has been the cost to Australia of providing these educational opportunities. The average annual tuition cost per full-time student at universities is estimated at around $5,500 per annum and at colleges of advanced education just over $4,000 per annum. 
Australian students do not pay fees. However, in their case part of the cost of their education at tertiary level comes from Consolidated Revenue contributed in part through tax by their families. No such contribution is made by overseas students or their families although many are well able to afford such costs and, indeed, would have to pay fees if the student undertook higher education in the home country. 
The level of charges has been determined after taking account of costs and fees charged by other comparable countries. The Government has been conscious of the need to set charges at a level which will not unduly deter overseas students from undertaking studies in Australia. The new charges to be met by overseas students will range between $1,500 and $2,500 per annum depending on the course chosen. They will apply from the beginning of 1980 to new students and to students changing courses where the student undertakes an award course at a university or college of advanced education. Legislation will be introduced in the near future for this purpose. 
Other governments have sought Australia's assistance in educating their citizens, particularly at tertiary levels. In view of this and because of the Government's firm belief that it is in Australia 's interests to develop cultural exchange and international understanding, the new policies have been designed with a view to an increase in the number of students who will be admitted for study at Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. The revenue from the new charges will facilitate this and offset the additional public cost of the increase in overseas students studying in Australia. I emphasise that the above charges apply to private and sponsored overseas students. Australia will continue to provide substantial assistance through the Colombo Plan and similar aid programs. Overseas students sponsored under bilateral arrangements will have their charges paid under aid arrangements. 
In my statement of 7 June 1978 to the House on immigration policy, I indicated that while other temporary residents would no longer be eligible for permanent resident status while in Australia, private overseas students would continue to be eligible for permanent residence pending the review of the private overseas student policy. A high proportion of private overseas students has obtained permanent residence in Australia at the conclusion of their studies. Their failure to return to their home country has largely negated the primary objectives of the overseas student program. The 
Government has decided that, in future, overseas students will be required to leave Australia on the conclusion of their studies. Applications to return to Australia for residence will not normally be received or considered within two years. This requirement has received general support from overseas governments consulted. Accordingly, and in view of the need to clarify the situation of many people who will soon complete their studies, the Government has decided that this requirement will be effective immediately. This means that applications from overseas students in Australia for resident status will not normally be considered. Applications already lodged will be determined under the policy applying up to now. 
The new policies will make the private overseas student program more effective and facilitate opportunities for an increased number of people to study in Australia within the limits of Australia's educational and training capacity, lt is envisaged that most of the increased numbers will be drawn from the traditional source countries of students such as the Association of South East Asian Nation countries, Papua New Guinea and the South Pacific. We expect these initiatives to ensure that Australia attracts well-qualified students and those who will acquire special skills or expertise of particular value to them in their chosen careers in their home country. Overseas governments, especially those in the major source countries, will be invited to take advantage of the new policy by sponsoring increased numbers of students to study in Australia and by indicating their training needs and priorities for inclusion in the new selection criteria. The proposed policy changes will contribute significantly to international cultural exchange and understanding. They should also provide major additional benefits to developing countries through increased educational opportunities and skilled manpower training for their people. 
I turn now to the adult migrant education program. This is a national program funded and co-ordinated by the Commonwealth. It provides initial settlement courses in English language and information about Australia for new arrivals, migrants and refugees, and provides further English language learning opportunities for both recent and earlier arrivals. Most courses are provided by State education services under arrangements with the Commonwealth Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The cost of these courses is met from the appropriations for the adult migrant education program in the Commonwealth Budget. 
The objectives and targets arising from the Galbally report and accepted by the Government have meant a strengthening and refocusing of the English language education program for adult migrants and refugees as well as a substantial increase in activity. The sum of $24. 1 m is to be appropriated for the operation of the migrant and refugee education program in Australia during 1 979-80. This is an increase of just over 33V4 per cent on the $ 1 8m spent on operational costs in 1 978-79. It is four times the amount spent in 1974-75. A further $820,000 is to be appropriated to establish facilities including educational accommodation for the initial program. The emphasis in 1979-80 will be on the development of community settlement centres. 
The Galbally report recommended that the permanent nature of the adult migrant education program should be given practical recognition by establishing for it a rolling three-year program. When tabling the report on 30 May 1978, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the adult migrant education program would be established as a three-year program. The same level of funds as provided for 1 979-80 will, as a minimum, be maintained in 1980-8 1. If warranted, additional funds will be provided in that year. Funds for 1981-82 will need to reflect the intakes of migrants and refugees planned for next year and also the outcome of the surveys, which have now commenced, of the English language needs of migrants. 
Finally, 1 would like to elaborate on the reference in the Budget Speech to the introduction of charges for certain services provided by my Department. It is Government policy to recover the costs of administrative services by imposition of charges, wherever this is practical and consistent with other policy objectives. In keeping with this policy, the Government proposes to introduce charges for seven services in the areas covered by my portfolio: 
Processing an application for the grant of a further temporary entry permit- $20; processing an application for change of status, that is from a temporary entrant to a permanent resident- $50; processing an application for grant of a return endorsement- $20 or $30 at an overseas post; conducting English language tests at overseas posts- $25; processing an application for evidence of resident status- $20; obtaining information by way of cables initiated by applicants or clients- $ 15; assessing a person 's overseas professional or technical qualifications- $20. 
The first four charges will require legislative authority and 1 will be introducing a Bill, probably tonight, to amend the Migration Act. The remaining charges can be implemented administratively without legislation. It is proposed that all charges, with the exception of English language testing, will come into effect from 1 November 1979. The charge for English language testing for persons overseas will have the same date of effect, that is 1 January 1980, as for the charges I outlined at the opening of this statement. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 21 August in the Budget Speech, the Government has decided to introduce charges to recover certain administrative costs currently incurred by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The proposed charges are: 

<graphic href="115131197908226_36_3.jpg"></graphic>

The introduction of these charges is consistent with the Government's policy of achieving cost recovery for services provided by departments. Charges for these services are generally in line with the practice of other comparable countries. 
In Europe and North America it is usual to charge for a wide array of immigration and consular services. For example, the United Kingdom and United States of America charge for cables is identical with that now proposed. The USA charges $20 for immigrant visas and also charges for documentary evidence of status. All Australian visas will continue to be issued free of charge. Several Australian professional bodies already charge for assessment of the qualifications of persons educated overseas and this principle is now to be extended to the Government's service. In other countries educational institutions have to carry the responsibility of assessing the language skills of applicants for admission from other overseas countries. 
The charges will be mainly incurred by people who are not Australian citizens and will place those persons resident in Australia in a position similar to Australian citizens who must pay for passports in order to travel overseas. With the exception of charges for English language tests at overseas posts, it is proposed that all charges will be levied from 1 November 1979. The English language test fee will be charged from 1 January 1980. 
In order to implement charges for the first four of these services, an amendment to section 67 of the Migration Act 1958 is required. The remaining three charges will be raised administratively as the services are not recognised under the Act but are provided as a service only on request. 
The amendment to the Act to give effect to the implementation of the first four charges is proposed by clause 5 of the Bill. The clause will permit the making of regulations imposing fees in respect of these services. The necessary regulations to prescribe the level of charges are currently being prepared. 
It should be noted by honourable members that under the existing provisions of section 67, fees can be prescribed in respect of any documents issued under the Act. Advice has been received that the present form of entry permits and evidence of grant of change of status in Australia are not documents as such but stamps placed upon a person's passport. In order to avoid the need to give these authorities separately in documentary form, an amendment to the section is needed to enable the charges to be raised. In the interests of flexibility, it is desirable that the empowering provisions of section 67 be cast as broadly as possible to facilitate the introduction by regulation of any future charges without the need for further amendment to the Act. The amendment will thus permit the prescribing of fees to cover a broader category of services than that presently proposed. 
Clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill make two minor machinery amendments to the Act. Clause 3 will amend the definition of an authorised officer to empower the Minister to appoint any person to perform any or all of the duties conferred upon authorised officers by the Act. At present the Minister is empowered to appoint only officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Customs officers and members of the Commonwealth, State and Territory Police Forces as authorised officers. 
The amendment will enable the Minister to appoint officers of the departments of Foreign Affairs and Trade and Resources and, in some instances, persons employed by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office of the United Kingdom Government, to grant visas and return endorsements to persons wishing to travel to Australia. These appointments will be made only in those situations where Australia is not represented in the particular overseas country or where officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs are not employed at overseas posts. 
Clause 4 of the Bill amends section 3 1 of the Act to make it an offence for a person to produce false documents, papers, et cetera, not only to an officer but also to an authorised officer. The amendment is necessary as a result of the introduction of the statutory visa and return endorsement system by the Migration Amendment Bill 1979 which is currently before the Senate. As only authorised officers may, under that Bill, grant visas and return endorsements, it is necessary to ensure that those persons who apply for a visa or return endorsement for travel to Australia are liable to a penalty for producing to an authorised officer false information in an attempt to gain a visa or return endorsement. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned.  (Quorum formed). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. 
by leave- I move: 
Clause 3, page 1, lines 9 to 12, and page 2, lines 1 to 4, omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "3. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraphs (a) and (aa) and substituting the following paragaphs: 
raising money by way of loan; (aa) converting any loan- 
raised by the Commonwealth; or 
raised by a State in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Agreement, into any other loan so raised; and; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: 
Stock created pursuant to paragraph ( 1 ) (a) shall not be issued or sold unless- 
authority to borrow the moneys to be raised by the issue or sale is granted by an Act; or 
the issue or sale is for the purpose of carrying out an obligation of the Commonwealth under the Financial Agreement. '. ". 
Page 3, after clause 8, add the following new clause: "9. Section S3 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 53. (1) The Auditor-General shall inspect and audit the accounts and records of Registries established under section 14 and shall forthwith draw the attention of the Treasurer to any irregularity disclosed by the inspection and audit that is, in the opinion of the Auditor-General, of sufficient importance to justify his so doing. 
The Auditor-General may, at his discretion, dispense with all or any part of the detailed inspection and audit of any accounts or records referred to in sub-section ( 1 ). 
) The Auditor-General shall, at least once in each year, report to the Treasurer the results of the inspection and audit carried out under sub-section ( 1 ). 
The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him is entitled at all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounts and records of the Registries established under section 14. 
The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him may make copies of, or take extracts from, any such accounts or records. 
The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him may require any person to furnish him with such information in the possession of the person, or to which the person has access, as the Auditor-General or authorized person considers necessary for the purposes of the functions of the Auditor-General under this section, and the person shall comply with the requirement. 
A person who contravenes sub-section (6) is guilty of an offence and is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $200.'.". 
Both amendments are of a machinery nature. The first amendment relates to clause 3 of the Bill, which would amend section 4 of the Act. The effect of the amendment now proposed to clause 3 of the Bill will be simply to ensure that sub-section 4 of the Act enables stock to be issued in respect of any loan raised by a State in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Agreement. The relevant provisions of the Financial Agreement are sub-clauses 5(1) and 5(2). Sub-clause 5(1) provides that a State may: 
. . . borrow moneys within the State from authorities, bodies, funds or institutions (including Savings Banks) constituted or established under Commonwealth or State law or practice and from the public by counter sales of securities, and 
use any public moneys of the State which are available under the laws of the State. 
Sub-clause 5 (2) provides: 
Any securities that are issued for moneys so borrowed or used shall be Commonwealth securities, to be provided by the Commonwealth upon terms approved by the Loan Council. 
The present amendment is designed to ensure that securities can be issued under the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act to enable the Commonwealth to honour these obligations under the Financial Agreement. 
The second amendment proposes repeal of the present outdated audit section of the Act- that is, section 53- and its replacement with a new section 53 which sets out audit provisions which are now more or less standard in Commonwealth legislation. As I have said, the amendments are machinery ones. I commend them to honourable members. 
Amendments agreed to.  (Quorum formed). 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1979-80 totalling $4 15m. This amount represents the grant component of the Loan Council program for State governments in 1979-80 and is onethird of the total program of $ 1, 245m agreed at the June 1979 Loan Council meeting. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital grants in the first six months of 1980-81 up to an amount equal to one-half of the 1979-80 amount, pending passage of legislation to authorise grants in 1980-81. Payments authorised under this Bill may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and appropriate borrowing authority is included. This is consistent with past practice. 
These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1970, which provided that portion of the State governments' Loan Council programs should take the form of interest-free non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be interest-bearing borrowings by the States. The effect of the grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and the grants accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. The grants were introduced to help the States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges are not normally recovered. The States are, however, entirely free to apply these grants as they choose and no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
I turn now to the general context in which this Bill is being introduced. As I have mentioned, the grants which are the subject of this Bill comprise one-third of the States' Loan Council borrowing programs in 1979-80. The program is some 13.2 per cent lower than the program for 1978-79. This does not mean the States are being required to make a corresponding reduction in their works programs. A proper comparison with last year can only be made in the overall context of total Commonwealth payments to the States and borrowing by State authorities. Funds to the 
States from the Commonwealth Budget are presently estimated to be $1 1,168m in 1979-80, which would be an increase of 6.6 per cent. If the State authorities' borrowings are added to this, the estimated total figure is $ 13,408m, an increase of 8.6 per cent. Even though they are not included in Commonwealth budget outlays, a full consideration of State financing should take account of these borrowings by State authorities. They are an important source of funds for the States and their level has implications for the market for Commonwealth bonds and the extent of Commonwealth support needed for the State Government borrowing programs, which are underwritten by the Commonwealth. 
As honourable members may recall, in November 1978 the Commonwealth supported large special increases to State authorities' programs in the form of infrastructure financing for a number of major developmental projects. In June this year the Loan Council gave inprinciple approval to the admission of two further projects to the infrastructure program. In all, these funds approved under the infrastructure program are to be of the order of $ 1 .9 billion over eight years, with some $400m approved for 1979-80. These borrowings have, and will continue to have a considerable impact of the size of total State authorities' programs. 
This matter aside, it may be noted that Commonwealth general purpose payments to the States, which are the most important element of overall payments to the States and of which the grants proposed in this Bill form a part, in total are estimated to increase by 7.1 per cent to $6, 677m. The general revenue assistance component to the States, essentially comprising the tax sharing entitlements, is estimated at $5,432m this year, an increase of 13.2 per cent. These funds may, of course, be spent by the States however they see fit, including on capital works projects. The reduction in the 1 979-80 State governments Loan Council program must therefore be viewed in the particular context of the strong growth in the States' tax sharing entitlements. No responsible government could possibly ignore this factor. 
The other main area of payments to the States- specific purpose funds- is estimated to increase by about 6 per cent in 1979-80 compared with last year. One particular specific purpose payment of relevance is the local government tax sharing entitlement which is passed on to local authorities as general purpose funds. The local government share of the previous year's net personal income tax collections is to be increased to 1.75 per cent in 1979-80. The States will receive $22 1.7m for this purpose, an increase of 23.6 per cent. These decisions, including the size of the States' Loan Council program, have been taken within the framework of the inescapable need to contain the expansion of the public sector. 
In recent years the States have been able generally to achieve balanced Budgets- some have maintained Budget surpluses- despite the fact that at the same time they have been reducing or abolishing certain State taxes. The Commonwealth has made a balanced judgement on funding for the States in 1979-80 and has made every effort to give the States flexibility in managing their affairs within the constraints of responsible funding arrangements. This Bill provides onethird of the State governments Loan Council programs by way of an interest-free grant. It is an important measure in the overall arrangements for Commonwealth assistance to the States. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The policy of successive governments of all political persuasions has been to prevent the entry of people who could be described as being a possible threat to the internal security of the nation. In relation to the allegations made against a particular person in Sydney, all I can say is that, if the allegations which have yet to be proved are unfounded, very great disservice and harm have been done to that person. If they are proved, of course, the question will not be one for me in my position to resolve. It will be a question for other authorities. My understanding at the moment is that the gentleman to whom the Leader of the Opposition is referring is an Australian citizen. 
-The question of his membership of the Liberal Party is one for the Liberal Party organisation itself to determine. As honourable members will be aware, the person in question has been suspended from the Liberal Party while the charges are being investigated. I will conclude by saying that I thought it was a basic tenet of British justice that a man was presumed innocent until proved guilty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are various definitions of the terms gross migrant intake and net migrant intake now in use. 
The most common definitions of the gross migrant intake are: 
total arrivals of persons describing themselves as migrating to Australia; 
total arrivals of persons holding migrant visas, together with persons arriving without visas under Australia's bilateral arrangement with New Zealand and describing themselves as intending permanent residents; 
total arrivals as in either (a) plus the number of persons who arrive as visitors but after arrival change their status by obtaining authority to remain as permanent residents; 
total arrivals as in (b) plus the number of persons who arrive as visitors but after arrival change their status by obtaining authority to remain as permanent residents; 
The calculations using definitions (c) and (d) are complicated for the year 1977-78 as precise change of status approval figures are unavailable due to deficiencies in the statistical recording system. However, approvals in that year are estimated at 12,000. 
The figures for the four definitions are as follows (using the above estimate of 1 977-78 change of status approvals); 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 3 1 72 in Weekly  Hansard  of 4-7 June 1979(page3143). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2)- 
The term 'applications' means the number of people covered by formal applications lodged at overseas posts. The statistics do not include enquiries. 
The number of persons approved in the period does not necessarily relate to applications received in the same period. 
The Australian Government is not represented in Taiwan. Applications from residents of Taiwan are dealt with at other posts, mainly Hong Kong, and are not separately identified in their reports. 
As approximately two-thirds of all applications are refused, statistics on occupational characteristics of migrants are not compiled until the arrival stage, in order to minimise workload costs in accord with current contraints on staff resources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) While a small number of Vietnamese refugees arrive in Australia with significant assets, many are destitute and most have very few assets. Although officers of my Department overseas seek information about the assets of prospective settlers, including refugees, this information is not recorded in a way which can be presented in tabulated form. 
There is evidence to suggest that many people wishing to leave Vietnam are required to pay substantial sums in order to secure their departure and that property which they leave behind is confiscated by the Vietnamese Government. I understand that the amount demanded for authority to leave Vietnam is normally higher than $US 1000 per head. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
34,039. 
Persons recorded as approved for migration in family reunion categories represented 24.3 per cent of migrant arrivals during the six months to 3 1 May 1979. This figure does not include those persons approved in refugee or other general categories, many of whom also have family members in Australia. (It should be noted that arrivals in the early months of 1979 do not reflect the operation of the new eligibility categories or the NUMAS selection system introduced on 1 January 1 979, one objective of which is to give emphasis to family reunion. Most persons arriving in this period would have been approved under former eligibility and selection policies, since there can be time-lags between selection, approval and arrival). 
Since the introduction of the new immigration policy and NUMAS, substantial numbers of non-immediate relatives have been assisted in meeting the general immigration criteria by concessions in NUMAS for persons who are nominated or otherwise assisted by family members resident in Australia. These are not included in the family reunion category for statistical purposes. 
Persons selected under family reunion criteria represented 26.3 per cent of the 73,622 migrant arrivals in the period 1 December 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a), (b) and (c) Separate figures for fiancees are not available for the period 1976-77. The following table shows arrivals of fiancees and fiances with the component of fiancees identified in paranthesis: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Over the last 200 years, except for brief periods of war and economic recession, Australia has been a country of large-scale immigration. During the past 30 years we have experienced one of the great mass migrations of history. Over three and a half million people from more than 100 countries have made Australia their home in a magnificent saga of voluntary, planned migration. The United Kingdom has remained our chief source of migrants, providing just over 40 per cent of the post-war intake of 3.5 million people. The remaining 60 per cent have come from well over 100 sources, with Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia, Germany and the Netherlands prominent for most of the post-war period. In more recent times there have been intakes of immigrants from other areas including Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. 
Australia has succeeded in maintaining social harmony and national cohesion throughout this period of immigration. This has been achieved by adjustments on the pan of the host community and of the new settlers themselves. The Australian-born population has shown itself to be remarkably adaptable by progressively accepting many of the cultural values the newcomers have offered this nation, without significant racial antagonisms and tensions which have marred life in some other nations. Migrants themselves have made adjustments in order to adapt to life in their new country. 
Because of the Government's concern to ensure that the changing needs of migrants are met as effectively as possible within the limits of available resources, it decided late in 1977 to commission a review of post-arrival programs and services for migrants under the chairmanship of  Mr F.  E. Galbally, C.B.E. The Galbally report tabled in May 1978 expressed the view that Australia is at a critical stage in the development of a cohesive, united multicultural nation. One of the specific findings of the Galbally report was that there was very little information available on multicultural developments in Australia and overseas. Yet there was a need to assist the development of a multicultural society on the basis of skilled research and on lessons to be learned from experience overseas. 
Honourable members will recall that I tabled in the House on 7 June 1979 a paper entitled Multiculturalism and its Implications for Immigration Policy'. When tabling the paper I said that it illustrates the number of concepts of multiculturalism which presently exist and canvasses both the good and potentially undesirable effects of some forms of multiculturalism. The Galbally report recommended that the Commonwealth provide $1.8m over a three-year period to establish an institute of multicultural affairs to provide advice and information on multicultural development and multiculturalism in Australia, including aspects of migrant settlement, ethnicity and the maintenance of the cultural heritages of ethnic groups. This recommendation, in common with all recommendations of the Galbally Report, was accepted by the Government. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. One of the first tasks facing the Institute undoubtedly will be to clarify the meaning, limits and implications of 'multiculturalism', for it is essential that there be general community understanding of the concept and acceptance of its objectives and implications. The Institute will have a key role in promoting that understanding. To provide guidance in that difficult task, the broad objectives of the Institute are included within its legislation. These objectives, which embody the principal aims of the policy of multiculturalism, are set out in clause S of the Bill. They are: Firstly, to develop among the members of the Australian community an awareness of the diverse cultures within that community that have arisen as a result of the migration of people to Australia and an appreciation of the contributions of those cultures to the enrichment of that community; secondly, to promote tolerance, understanding, harmonious relations and mutual esteem among the different cultural groups and ethnic communities in Australia; thirdly, to promote a cohesive Australian society by assisting members of the Australian community to share with one another their diverse cultures within the legal and political structures of that society; and, fourthly, to assist in promoting an environment that affords the members of the different cultural groups and ethnic communities in Australia the opportunity to participate fully in Australian society and achieve their own potential. 
The Institute will be empowered to discharge this role by: Commissioning and conducting research and studies; furnishing reports to the Minister; making information available to members of the Australian community, and to particular bodies, organisations or groups within that community; conducting promotional and community educational activities; and establishing a repository of literature and other material relating to the diverse cultures of members of the Australian community. 
In order to carry out its research programs, the Institute will draw on expertise in the universities, colleges of advanced education and other educational institutions, community bodies and individuals. This approach will enable best use to be made of scarce skilled resources and will minimise the Institute 's own staffing needs. 
Nevertheless, to be able to commission or conduct appropriate research, the Institute will require a staff of skilled and knowledgeable experts. It will require the capacities to identify needs and priorities for research, to prepare briefs for external researchers and to monitor progress. Importantly, it will need capacity to appraise and use the results of the research programs as a basis for its community education programs and for developing reports and advice to the Minister. Clearly the development of such an expert staff calls for flexibility and a measure of independence. Therefore, the Bill provides for the Institute to engage its own staff. However, coordination of terms and conditions of employment with other Commonwealth Government bodies is provided by the provision in the Bill that Public Service Board approval of terms and conditions of employment is required. 
The Government considers it important that the institute should work to infuse into every level of Australian society a tolerant and enlightened approach to cultural differences and to Australian unity in its diversity. Therefore, it intends that the Institute adopt a practical educational and action-oriented approach. The Institute will consult widely, collect, analyse and disseminate information on ethnic cultures and backgrounds. It will foster the development of special knowledge and skills in this area of intercultural differences and the application of this knowledge to everyday life. It is not to be a negative body merely emphasising differences. In pursuing the objective of promoting a cohesive Australian society, it will also be cognisant of the similarities, the common values and the aspects of life in Australia that, irrespective of our ethnic backgrounds, we treasure and want to preserve. 
The Government's view is that the Institute should have a major role in providing advice on all aspects of multiculturalism. In addition to advising the Minister on any matters related to the Institute's functions, it should also be available as a source of information and counsel to government and non-government bodies and to groups within the Australian community. It is expected that the Institute will come to be regarded as a national resource centre on the cultural backgrounds of Australia's migrant peoples. Advice and assistance will be available from it in situations in which cultural differences and the lack of understanding of them are causing, or have the potential to cause, serious community problems. 
Additionally to these three major areas of activity will be an ancillary, but nevertheless significant function of acting as a repository for ethnic and cultural literature and material. Given that the post-war migration program has been operating for over 30 years, it is timely to commence a collection of material which records the culture and backgrounds of the many diverse migrant groups which have made a contribution to the development of Australia over this period, and in earlier times since 1788, before the material becomes lost to posterity. The Institute could well act most effectively in this role by recommending methods of collecting and holding such material in conjunction with existing collections and museums, as well as advising on an ethnic heritage component in any future national museum for Australia. 
To carry out its mission by pursuing this wide range of activities, it is apparent the Institute will have to work closely with a wide variety of key organisations throughout the nation, as well as developing and maintaining international contacts. Because of its likely high public profile as a national resource and advisory centre the Institute will need to develop and demonstrate considerable expertise in a complex environment. At the Commonwealth level, the Institute will need to work closely with my Department and with advisory bodies, such as the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council, and with a number of other Commonwealth departments of state. 
Honourable members will note that the provisions of the Bill have given the Institute of Multicultural Affairs wide powers to carry out its functions. However, the Institute will not overlap the functions of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs or of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. That Institute's role is directed towards research and study in relation to the Aboriginal people of Australia, whereas the Institute of Multicultural Affairs will be concerned with undertaking research and studies primarily directed towards the awareness of, and understanding of, non-aboriginal cultures and the promotion of harmonious relationships among all elements of our community. Nevertheless, the concept of multiculturalism does embrace all cultures in a nation and the Aboriginal people are an integral part of the Australian multicultural society. Indeed, when considered from an international standpoint, it is imperative that the Aboriginals be included within the total framework of Australia's multicultural policies. Therefore, whilst the Institute will not direct its research programs into Aboriginal issues, it is clear that a close co-operative working relationship with the various organisations involved in Aboriginal issues will be highly desirable and that joint programs and projects, particularly in community education, could well eventuate from such relationships. 
In addition, the Institute will undoubtedly develop and maintain contacts and co-ordinate its activities with a wide range of other organisations, both in the government and private sector. The Institute will be assisted in this task of communication and contact with organisations by the general membership of the Institute. The Government believes the Institute is a new development with immense potential to benefit all Australians in the continued development of a cohesive, multicultural society, a goal which we in the Government believe all members of this Parliament wil agree is worth striving for.  (Quorum formed). 
I now return to the second reading speech on the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs Bill. I now turn to some of the specific provisions relating to the structure and management of the Institute. Clause 10 provides that the Institute consist of a governing council and a general membership of not more than 100 members appointed by the Minister. When appointing members of the Institute, the Minister will be required to consult with the council. Institute members will comprise people experienced in multicultural matters drawn from a wide range of backgrounds and expertise. They will provide a source of advice to the council on specific topics and act as channels of contact between the council and the general community. The council of the Institute will be responsible for the conduct and control of the affairs of the Institute. It will consist of a  chairman,  the director of the Institute, the Secretary to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and not fewer than three, or more than six, other members appointed by the Governor-General. 
Under clause 18 the council will be obliged to comply with any directions given to it by the Minister in writing and to have regard to such policies of the Government as are communicated to the council by the Minister. The council will be required under clause 49 to set out in its annual report all directions given to it by the Minister and policy communications referred to it by the Minister. Under the Bill the affairs of the Institute are to be managed by a director appointed as a statutory officer who will be the executive member of the council. He will be required to act in accordance with any directions given to him by the council. 
I commend the Bill to the House as a most important step in building the type of society we want the Australia of the future to be. I am sure all members of this House support the determination to promote a cohesive Australian society- a society knowledgeable about and tolerant of its own ethnic diversity; an Australian nation in which all members have, whatever their origin, equal opportunity to achieve their full potential within its legal and political structures. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 42 (d) of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 I present the annual return of persons granted Australian citizenship for the year ended June 1979. 
Naturally I know of the honourable gentleman's continuing concern in relation to this matter, and I share it. Movement across the Tasman is of a considerable scale each way every year. There is a special relationship between Australia and New Zealand which I am anxious to preserve. I think the common histories of the two countries is of importance. I would not like to bring about a situation which would unnecessarily hinder the free movement of people who are eligible to travel between the two countries. Having said that, I am concerned not only about the possibilities of heroin smuggling but also the possibilities of the free entry arrangements being used by other than New Zealand citizens or British subjects who are eligible to use them. To this end, over a period of time now, I have been having negotiations with my New Zealand counterpart. These negotiations have progressed very satisfactorily. 
Meetings of State Ministers associated with immigration and myself are held regularly under this Government and they now include the New Zealand Minister for Immigration. At these meetings the question of trans-Tasman movement has been brought up. Recently, a senior officer of my Department was in New Zealand for discussions with New Zealand departmental officials and the current Minister for Immigration in New Zealand. We are anxious to bring about a situation in which abuses of the arrangement can be minimised. I would like to see in existence an arrangement whereby the total immigration procedures of the two countries are brought as far as possible into harmony. I take into consideration the matters raised by the honourable member. They are under active investigation at present by both the New Zealand Government and me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. For example one question asks for 'usual occupation'. Additionally, a deal of information on passenger cards would be unintelligible to user departments if they were completed in native scripts or languages other than English, particularly the former. To emphasise this problem there are over 100 languages used by persons resident in Australia. 
No. However, a number of passenger cards in use are printed in the language of the country of origin as well as English where English is not the native language. 
No. English is the official language in Australia. 
5 ) No. It would be impractical to do so because of the resources that would be required to provide translations and then the delays consequently incurred in processing data given. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Temporary entrants to Australia of all categories, including visitor, people admitted for periods of temporary residence and illegal entrants, such as ships' deserters, who were granted change to resident status in each of the last three years totalled: 
1975- 76-11,045 
1976- 77-11,360 
1977- 78-12,000 (estimated) 
The 1975-76 and 1976-77 figures reflect the effects of the amnesty offered by the Government to overstayed visitors and other prohibited migrants and of the grant of resident status to evacuees from Timor who were admitted on temporary permits. Note that figures for these years have recently been revised to include some cases not previously recorded in the statistics. The 1977-78 figure, which includes a carry-over of applications from the previous year, is not known precisely due to deficiencies in the statistical reporting system. 
Within the above totals, people who came to Australia with visitor visas numbered 8,167 in 1975-76 and 4,440 in 1976-77. The corresponding figure for 1977-78 is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has one Migration Officer Grade 3 (Clerk Class 7) at Messina as Australia's sole representative in Sicily. His office is titled Australian Consulate and, in addition to his primary migration role, he is responsible for all Consular functions. 
Report on Urban Residential Streets  (Question No. 4567) 
This year's Budget is further testimony to the Commonwealth Government's support for immigration, for migrants and for the development of a socially cohesive and culturally diverse Australian community. 
It is frequently said that Australia is a country of immigrants. At no time in Australia's history has there been such a wide range of achievements in immigration and ethnic affairs as there has since the beginning of 1976. Let me just reiterate some of the achievements of this period of less than four years in order to put the Budget appropriations for the current financial year into perspective. 
Following an extensive review of immigration policies in the context of Australia's population, new immigration policies and population objectives were announced on 7 June last year. We have an active immigration policy with denned objectives over rolling three-year periods; we have relaxed family reunion entry categories in a responsible way; we have introduced new opportunities for independent applicants to be considered for migration under a systematic selection system known as NUMAS, which is based on the collective experience of settlement in this country over many years. We have introduced a refugee policy and mechanisms which at the time were unique in any country in the world and we have demonstrated over the past two years in particular an ability to operate a complex refugee intake program in a compassionate but responsible way. There has been a major initiative in the area of post-arrival services and programs for migrants as a result of the Government's acceptance of the Galbally report's recommendations. The implementation of the Galbally report's recommendations is proceeding generally on schedule and I shall be making a statment in the near future to give details of the implementation program. 
I am confident that there is no country which has developed such an effective and wideranging framework and specific programs and services for migrant settlement to offset disadvantages newcomers hold and to ensure that they have equality of opportunity and treatment in their new home. There has been significant progress in developing standards in interpreting and translating through the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters and dramatic advances in recognition of overseas professional and generalist qualifications through the operation of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications. The Telephone Interpreter Service- a unique Australian system of communication and assistance to those without an adequate knowledge of English- was decided on by the McMahon Government in 1972. It is now operating in all States and will be extended through the use of modern technology to cover all significant groups of people around Australia who do not speak English. Funds are provided in the Budget to assist in doing just this. 
In the area of adult migrant education, the Galbally report's recommendations have provided a boost to action through increased expenditure. Two years ago, there was virtually no initial settlement program for newly-arrived migrants. In the current financial year provision is made for almost 12,000 newly-arrived migrants to participate in this program. This is for a substantial proportion of adult migrants who do not speak English and require information about Australia, its institutions and available services. In the on-going Adult Migrant Education Program, current enrolments total around 100,000. We are moving to extend the Home Tutor Scheme and to make it more effective. Discussions will be initiated in the near future with the objective of extending the Courses in Industry Program. This extension is planned first for Melbourne and Sydney, which are the main centres of migrant concentration. Overall, the Adult Migrant Education Program will receive $24,100,000 in the current financial year, an increase of 34 per cent on expenditure in the 1978-79 financial year. To put this in perspective, the appropriation this year will be four times that outlaid in 1974-75. As honourable members would know, I recently introduced a Bill to establish an Institute of Multicultural Affairs in Melbourne. This will also be breaking new ground and represents further evidence of the Government's commitment to the development of a cohesive multicultural nation. 
In all, the appropriation for my Department will be $73.4m, an increase of $1 1.7m on expenditure last year and representing a significant increase in real terms. Over 50 per cent- that is $37. 735m- of this expenditure will be on the provision of settlement services. An additional $lm has been allocated for the development of migrant resource centres to assist community settlement and to provide focal points in the community for migrants to receive information and advice on services and to develop their own co-operative arrangements for self-help. 
I doubt whether any impartial observer could dispute that this is a remarkable record of achievement in a short time and especially under difficult economic circumstances. We in the Government believe that a continuing immigration program is a crucial element in policies and programs for the advancement of Australia. We believe also that we must link the immigration intake with effective post-arrival settlement programs so that the process of immigration is one that is satisfying and productive to migrants themselves and to the Australian community. 
We believe that people should not be enticed to Australia with inaccurate or out-of-date information about Australia when they make their decision to migrate. For this reason, expenditure on information and publicity will rise from $537,000 to $790,000 in the current financial year and we will review our information activities both overseas and in Australia in the light of the major information needs survey now being concluded under one of the Galbally report's recommendations. Expenditure on population planning and research will increase by 22 per cent in the current financial year. This is essential expenditure to ensure that adequate information is available to decision-makers in the Australian community for resource allocation, for immigration planning and for use by those who have to plan and carry through services to the community as a whole and to elements within the community. 
I am sure that most people still do not appreciate just how much population growth has slowed down in Australia and the implications of this slow-down for the future. In each successive year since 1971, when there were 276,000 live births in Australia, there has been a reduction in the number of live births. By 1978 the number of live births had declined to 225,000. In other words, last year there were 50,000 fewer live births in Australia than there were seven years ago. That trend has enormous implications for areas including education, service industries and domestic consumption in the years ahead. 
More than 20 years ago when Australia was going through a difficult period of unemployment and economic problems, there was a clamour from some people that immigration should be cut or that it should stop completely. Fortunately, good sense prevailed and a majority of Australians, not only supporters of the Government of the day but also leaders of the trade union movement, recognised the importance of immigration to Australia's development and economic well-being. Planned immigration, based on the need to maintain a balanced program, both ethnically and industrially, continued to lead us into the prosperous 1960s. Attitudes, especially of some sections within the Opposition in more recent times, are reminiscent of those calls for reduced immigration in 1956 and 1957. Those people should heed the warning given at that time by the then  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Albert Monk, who said: 
It may be possible to turn off the flow of migrants, but it is hard to turn it on again. 
He and the government of the day recognised how much migration had been associated with buoyant national prosperity and how it was impossible to turn the flow of migrants on and off without, firstly, a loss of confidence in Australia as a country of resettlement and, secondly, a consequent loss of impetus in planned population growth as an important component in economic development and national prosperity. 
I mention this statement by Albert Monk as a contrast to the present views of the Opposition. Our immigration and ethnic affairs policies have been stated in this Parliament. But what about the attitudes and policies of the Opposition? I have studied the platform that the Australian Labor Party adopted in Adelaide in July this year without obtaining any real clues to the approach that the Opposition would take if it ever assumed government. Perhaps the reason for the lack of specific policies is that the Opposition does not really believe that it will get into government for a long time. The ALP's immigration policy is a very imprecise one but it does say that family reunion must have a high priority. 
We might ask what is meant by family reunion. In a statement on a new approach to immigration and community relations, the Opposition spokesman said that family reunion is a concept that includes: 
Brothers, sisters, fiancees and spouses without necessarily putting an order of priority as to which one should go before the other. 
It is an incredible situation in which the ALP spokesman has omitted from his list parents and children of Australian residents and referred only to female fiancees. It is even more incredible that the Opposition says that one should not put an order of priority as between brothers, sisters, fiancees and spouses for migration purposes. Australia would be a laughing stock if it were to adopt an approach which gave no priority to spouses and to fiancees and parents over brothers and sisters. But the ALP approach begs the whole question of selection criteria. If the ALP asserts that all brothers and sisters of Australian residents should be admitted to Australia government would quickly lose control of the intake. Within one year an additional 25,000 to 30,000 or more brothers and sisters would be eligible and the number would increase in a geometric progression very rapidly. It is by no means impossible that within three or four years of the introduction of an open-ended policy for brothers and sisters as many as 100,000 brothers and sisters would be coming to Australia as migrants. 
There is no clarification in recent Press releases from the Opposition spokesman on Immigration. He has recently released two Press statements one of which can be dismissed immediately because it was not only nonsensical but also based on a false premise that the effects of NUMAS can be deduced in figures for the migrant intake for the financial year ending on 30 June. In fact, very few migrants chosen under NUMAS had arrived before the beginning of this financial year. 
But the Government has been accused more recently of promoting migration 'at a time when unemployment amongst newly-arrived migrants has reached 17.5 per cent'. This again is misleading. There is a need for extreme caution in interpreting the results of labour force surveys where the numbers involved are very small. Overall, the labour force survey showed an unemployment rate among overseas-born of 6.2 per cent in July, only marginally above the figure for Australian-born and this in spite of substantial intakes of refugees and the Tasman free-flow movement. Moreover, there has been a definite trend for many years for overseas-born recent arrivals to have a much higher rate of unemployment as shown by the labour force survey, than other groups in the community, and this is for obvious reasons. Not the least important is that the labour force survey gives a snapshot picture. It does not reflect the very high level of mobility among recently arrived migrants who might have had four or five jobs in a relatively short period but be unemployed at the survey date. 
Recently arrived migrants move from hostels into the community or from initial accommodation to more permanent accommodation. They may seek employment initially near their first place of accommodation and then seek employment closer to their more permanent accommodation. If anything, the unemployment rate for overseas-born has been declining during the current calendar year and this applies to the rate for arrivals since 1 January 1978 where the rate has declined from over 20 per cent in January of that year to 1 6.5 per cent in July. 
This sort of nit-picking approach by the Opposition spokesman obscures the fact that we are accepting large numbers of persons on humanitarian grounds such as Indo-Chinese refugees, Soviet Jews, Timorese, Eastern European refugees, and large numbers of persons on compassionate family reunion grounds. It is of interest that if one takes only the occupationally eligible entrants in the 1978-79 financial year, only 17.7 per cent of persons intending employment were not in skilled, technical, professional or administrative worker categories. If we take a different approach and look at the family reunion and refugee categories- the groups the Opposition would give priority to- 73 per cent of those indicating they would be seeking employment were in the unskilled, semi-skilled or not classified categories, the very groups in greater difficulty in finding employment under current circumstances. 
It is a pity that in a debate on immigration the Opposition should have descended to the sort of level where the Opposition hovers around waiting for innocuous pieces of paper, in some instances early Departmental drafts, to become available as the basis for unintelligible Press releases. Let me look more closely at the intake arid what it really means. In the intake of 68,750 settlers for the financial year 1978-79, the numbers of persons intending to enter the work force was just over 27,500. The remaining 41,200 persons were dependants and persons not intending to enter the work force. If we deducted the number of persons in the work force in Australia departing for permanent residence overseas, the net worker gain to Australia in the financial year 1978-79 would be less than 25 per cent of the gross migrant intake. 
This gives an indication of the need to maintain a significant level of migration in order to maintain the skilled work force in Australia since a considerable proportion of the persons leaving Australia are persons with skills and experience who have found jobs overseas. It is important to realise also that migrants are highly mobile in the period soon after their arrival in Australia, so that they are able to take up vacancies in the Australian work force. Filling of these vacancies helps create jobs in related industries and occupations. So the simplistic approach that so many on the Opposition side take, that is, because we have a migrant intake we will add to unemployment, is clearly shown to be absolute nonsense. If we structure the migrant intake correctly, rather than adding to unemployment we can in fact create more employment opportunities particularly in that area where great need exists- the area of semi-skilled and unskilled workers. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have a feeling of pride in referring to the achievements in the Immigration and Ethnic Affairs portfolio since the beginning of 1976. This year's Budget gives additional funds and resources to enable a continuation of a positive approach to Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Australia has enormous resources. It has enormous space. It has enormous energy to be tapped. It has a skilled work force. It has a very small population and domestic market. In short, it lacks the people to achieve the undoubted potential we have for building a prosperous, free and great nation. We face great challenges as a country of large-scale refugee resettlement but I believe that this complex issue has been handled in a way that balances compassion and the interests of the Australian community. 
Our immigration and ethnic affairs policies and programs are based on Australia's interests, compassion for our fellow men and women and playing a responsible role in the international arena. They provide a firm basis for development of this nation and for achieving individuals ' prosperity and security in a free society. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) Following advertisements for various migrant settlement and ethnic affairs officer positions, over 2,000 applications were received. It has been a lengthy task to produce short lists for interview and to conduct interviews in order to give all applicants for positions in all States and the Northern Territory the opportunity to demonstrate their abilities and capacities. The positions are now being filled and the first of the persons appointed are now taking up duty. The positions in Victoria will be filled in the very near future. 
Lead in Petrol  (Question No. 4621) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Data are not available for the part month from 7 June to 30 June 1978. During the period I July 1978 to 30 June 1979, a total of 6024 persons were granted Australian resident status. 
and (3) During the financial year 1978-79 applications for Australian resident status were lodged and approved under the following categories: 
by leave- I take pleasure in reporting on the implementation of the Galbally Report on Post-Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants. For the information of honourable members, I table a summary of the action taken to date. The summary is in the form of an up-dated edition of the Galbally Information Kit which in previous versions has been circulated to a number of people closely associated with implementation. It covers the first year of activity and indicates continuing progress. At this stage of the implementation program, 13 recommendations can be counted as fully implemented, whilst progress on the others continues to be closely monitored by the committee of senior Commonwealth public servants forming the Galbally Implementation Task Force. 
In proceeding to implement the 57 major recommendations of the Galbally report, the Government is upholding a principle that I believe all Australians regard as underpinning our society: The principle of equal opportunity. The theme of the Galbally report is the need to overcome the disadvantage migrants experience when they are newly arrived or when, as has been allowed to happen over the past 30 years, they have accumulated a backlog of unmet needs. The Galbally implementation program can be seen as supportive and remedial in that it responds to needs that are currently perceived. It will also prevent future problems because it anticipates future needs, ensuing that people arriving in Australia now and in the future will reach the goal of self-reliance as equal members of our society more quickly than many of their predecessors. The summary will enable honourable members to trace for themselves the progess on individual recommendations. The main points are described in it. Where possible, my Department will provide honourable members with further detail on particular initiatives. In this statement I shall highlight the main lines of progress. The progress already achieved has required a massive administrative effort. 
This Government is concerned with action. In accepting the Galbally report, the Government saw the need for quick action as a sign of good faith. Within a few weeks of receiving the report, the Government had accepted its recommendations and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had made its commitment public by tabling the report in this House. That was on 30 May 1978. Within days of the tabling, the administrative machinery was in gear and, within a few weeks, progress on some recommendations -notably those for which the Commonwealth alone is responsible- had been made. Initial approaches were being made also to gain the cooperation of State governments. There was quick action to make good the promise the Galbally report held for that section of the community which it had identified as suffering considerable disadvantage. 
Before proceeding to implement the more complex recommendations, the Commonwealth needed to consolidate its position. Whilst my Department has carriage of 3 1 of the 57 recommendations, 12 other departments have been actively involved and the levels of co-operation they have reached in the course of implementation are a feature of the program. Commonwealth departments had to look to where Galbally programs fitted with other on-going programs and to realign priorities. Ethnic liaison officers working at senior levels within all Commonwealth departments and most statutory bodies continue to raise awareness of the special needs of migrants, refugees, and ethnic groups, thereby influencing the planning of programs and services. 
Building on the framework of existing, ongoing programs, the Galbally report costed the additional Commonwealth expenditure required at close to $50m. The Galbally report is now something that goes beyond the work of its creators. The Commonwealth Government accepted the recommendations and timetable proposed. It has accepted the financial commitment entailed. There is some explanation of the financial considerations in the document I have tabled, but I want to emphasise a few points. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has indicated that there is provision this year of some $ 1 5m for Galbally initiatives in migrant programs and services. 
That compares with expenditure of $4.7m in 1978-79. Neither of those figures represents the full extent of the Commonwealth commitment to the welfare of migrants. We have to remember that expenditure recommended in the Galbally report refers only to additional Commonwealth expenditure. The Galbally program is additional to, and an increment on, other programs. In fact, the report stressed that as far as possible the needs of migrants- some 20 per cent of the population- should be met by general programs directed at the whole community. 
Some measure of the impetus the Galbally program is giving to on-going programs can be made from looking at the appropriation proposed this year for my Department. We have an increase of $1 1.7m in expenditure this financial year to bring the total to $73.4m. 
That is an increase of about 19 per cent in money terms and a significant increase in real terms. Just over half of this expenditure, about $37.7m, is for provision of various kinds of settlement services. The Galbally program is giving impetus to many individual programs not specified in the report itself but which reflect the spirit of the report. Moreover, the impact of the Galbally report is reaching beyond Commonwealth responsibilities and is helping to stimulate action and expenditure by State governments and by community organisations including those representative of ethnic groups. As implementation advances, therefore, it is increasingly difficult to match progress to a single time-table. We cannot look too narrowly at the way in which the Galbally report links action to expenditure over a three-year implementation period- year 1, year 2 and year 3- especially if one looks at those three years as 12-month periods beginning from the Prime Minister's statement of May 1978. 
It is a mistake, however, to see the Galbally program solely in financial terms. The effects of the Galbally program go well beyond those of purchasing power. We are re-ordering priorities. The 57 recommendations are not consecutive; they cannot be ticked off like a shopping list. The program is constructing a new vehicle taking new routes in the delivery of programs and services to migrants. As well as changes of direction, it introduces structural changes. The changes of direction give a new emphasis to orientation on arrival and, to encourage self-help, also require a transfer of resources from government to voluntary community agencies. The structural changes involve a network of community based settlement councils, settlement committees, settlement centres and migrant resource centres. They involve reshaping the adult migrant education program, giving impetus to multicultural education in schools and in the community and upgrading the teaching of English as a second language. It is a program for the future as well as the present. 
At every point in the implementation program the special needs of migrant women are being taken into account, although it is not always easy to determine the extent to which migrant women are disadvantaged as migrants or disadvantaged as women. The Office of Women's Affairs is overseeing the implementation of recommendation 43 which requires that women's interests be met in all aspects of the program. We are taking into account the National Women's Advisory Council report entitled 'Migrant Women Speak' which my colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott),  tabled on 6 June. We are taking account of the recommendations of the National Conference on the English Language Needs of Migrant Women held in Melbourne during May this year. Women are involved in every aspect of the implementation program as professional planners, as advisers, as service deliverers and, significantly, as community volunteers. At least one woman has been appointed to each settlement council and we are urging that women to be included on the committees of management that run the migrant resource centres. Material prepared for on-arrival orientation courses is emphasising women's needs. The survey of migrants' information needs will reflect the views of women. More than half the people consulted in the qualitative phase were women and, as far as possible, men and women were interviewed in equal numbers during the quantitative phase. Other examples of the emphasis on women's needs can be found within the document I have tabled tonight. 
Allowing that some of the 57 recommendations overlap, it is still possible to sort them into three compartments with connecting doors: First, those covering initial settlement, meeting the immediate needs of migrants on arrival; second, those providing what might be called back-up services, helping newcomers towards full participation in the Australian community; third, those recognising the cultural diversity which characterises Australia today. 
On-arrival program 
With the on-arrival program, we have made substantial progress in building up settlement services and education facilities covering orientation and English language courses. Eighteen months ago there was no particular on-arrival program. In the financial year just ended, nearly 8,000 adults attended courses of up to 12 weeks' duration and many went on to take advantage of the further courses being offered in the community as part of the back-up services. To meet the new requirements of the on-arrival courses, stressing the things people need to know immediately upon arrival, teaching materials are being supplemented and distribution of orientation material covering more than 120 subjects will begin soon. Thousands of copies are being produced in a variety of languages reflecting the composition of the current intake. 
The on-arrival program is setting up structures that will remain effective well beyond the implementation period. All the elements of this complex program should be fully operational by the end of 1 979. Since conditions vary from one part of Australia to another, the point of arrival is one of many variables affecting the individual experiences of newcomers. With the cooperation of State and territorial governments, we have set up all eight of the settlement councils which in each State and mainland Territory have the responsibility of identifying local needs. We have set up 12 settlement centres, each with its own regulating committee- that is, one centre at each of the 12 hostels now in use compared with nine, envisaged in the Galbally report. While these centres are located in hostels, they are not exclusively for hostel residents but, wherever possible, are open to the surrounding communities. Similar centres are being set up at locations outside hostels. 
In establishing this network, we are having to take account of current and likely changes in the migrant intake, especially recognising the proportion of refugees. Very early in the implementation program, my Department diverted staff to begin the work mapped out for settlement coordinators and settlement officers. Since then more than 2,500 people have applied for some 45 positions associated with Galbally programs advertised by my Department. To fill the positions we have taken time to ensure that we select the people best qualified for the tasks. The short list of applicants, including a number of people from outside the Public Service, is now being considered and persons are starting to take up duty. 
Back-up services 
Substantially more services are now available from within the community. These back-up services are designed to support newcomers as they move into the broader community. It makes sense, therefore, that they should be communitybased, drawing as far as possible on the voluntary efforts that Australians have always been willing to make. As the Galbally report noted, ethnic communities are keen to help their members. We have acted quickly to get money flowing to ethnic and voluntary organisations. In the first year of implementation, 39 new grants were given under guidelines set in accordance with Galbally recommendations and, in addition, after careful assessment, 34 grants held under an earlier program were included in the new scheme. Thus, a total of 73 grants was made in 1978-79 as a result of Galbally recommendations, all for three-year as opposed to one-year terms. Forty-eight special project grants with total expenditure of $150,000 were made in 1978- 79 to encourage self-help among ethnic groups and to help trade unions in providing welfare services to migrant members. 
The first migrant resource centre under Galbally programs opened in Melbourne on 4 July and the one in Darwin on 3 August; Geelong and Hobart, with a branch in Launceston, will open soon. By the end of this year- 1979- ten will have been established, the other locations being Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, the Sydney suburb of Liverpool, and Wollongong. Another four will be established in the first half of 1 980 at locations to be decided. In response to needs that have emerged during implementation, the Government has advanced the original time-table and increased its financial commitment to resource centres. All these centres are being run by community groups in which migrants, including migrant women, are represented. Different patterns of management and activities are emerging, reflecting local circumstances, needs and interests. 
Government and non-government agencies alike will be reappraising their services in the light of results from the extensive survey into the information needs of migrants and the channels through which they communicate. These results are now coming to hand and will be made public soon, along with guidelines on how they might be used to enhance communication to and from ethnic communities. Several Galbally recommendations hinge on the results of this survey. For that reason, our desire to produce usable data quickly has been tempered by a desire to ensure that the data is soundly based. At another level, communication is already improving through the extension of interpreting, translating and bi-lingual facilities. The Telephone Interpreter Service, now amalgamated with the translation unit of my Department to maximise the capacity of both, has extended to localised services in Canberra and Hobart and, by exploiting new technology, we expect to be able to exceed the Galbally proposal. Through a switching system linking rural areas with capital city services backed by locally engaged panels of interpreters and translators, it will be possible to cover significant concentrations of migrants outside major centres. This is a unique Australian system providing a valuable service which we are working to extend to most people in Australia requiring interpreting and translating assistance. 
The Adult Migrant Education Program operates widely throughout the community. This is an example of the Galbally report re-shaping an existing program. From an appropriation of some $24m to adult migrant education this year, an increase of $6m on expenditure in 1978-79, about $2m is directly related to Galbally initiatives. The recommendations and guiding principles of the report are being applied in the general program. Courses and learning opportunities other than those at the on-arrival stage are attracting about 100,000 enrolments a year. Those learning opportunities are being reviewed to match better the differing needs of students of differing levels of ability and fluency in English. The Home Tutor Scheme is being extended along with courses in industry. The objective is to have 11,000 people being helped under the Home Tutor Scheme this year compared with about 9,000 last year. Initiatives are being taken in teacher development and important surveys and studies of language needs are under way. Action has been taken to improve the content of courses. 
We are proceeding also with pilot courses enabling groups of professionals with overseas qualifications to improve their knowledge of English and groups of Australian professionals to improve their knowledge of ethnic cultures and community languages. Again, in this area, we have drawn on the expertise available within the community- funding courses mounted through tertiary institutions, two large Melbourne hospitals and with the assistance of, in one case, a community organisation and the Victorian Government. That participants in these courses had to be selected from hundreds of applicants indicates that the concept meets a widely-felt need. 
Multicultural development 
Recognition that English is not the only language in daily use in Australia is a prerequisite for supporting newcomers in their programs towards equality of opportunity. It is also a reminder of the way our society has progressed in its development towards what the Galbally report calls 'a united, cohesive, multicultural nation'. Following the precedent the Prime Minister set when tabling the Galbally report, I am arranging to have the statement I am making now translated and published in a similar range of community languages. 
Multiculturalism is a concept we and others in the world know too little about. Following recommendations from a five-member interim council, which sought and analysed a number of submissions from a wide range of organisations and individuals throughout Australia, the Government has introduced legislation to set up an Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs as a statutory corporation. The Institute will be located in Melbourne. Formal machinery is being set up to provide advice on migrant education and multicultural education. It allows for representation of Commonwealth, State and non-government authorities, parents, teachers and ethnic communities. 
Facing the facts as we now know them, we have made considerable progress on the other recommendations the Galbally report made in this area. We have provided extra funds- more than $lm this school year- to enable government and non-government schools in all States to upgrade the teaching of English as a second language. For that purpose the schools systems this year are able to draw on Commonwealth funds totalling more than $28m. Additional funds have been allocated also to promote multicultural educational activities, initially by increasing opportunities to learn languages other than English. A Commonwealth-States working party has been set up to identify the exact nature and extent of unmet needs in the teaching of English as a second language in schools. At another level, the Australia Council reports that, through its various boards, it has moved to increase substantially its support to the ethnic arts and ethnic artists. 
It has been somewhat more difficult to obtain quick results in areas requiring changes of legislation by the Commonwealth and States- for example, in resolving anomalies in voting rights. It is difficult also to get quick results in other areas- for example, social security, where it is necessary to settle principles on which discussions and negotiations for agreements with other countries might proceed. Nonetheless, progress is being made. 
Broadcasting presents huge technical as well as administrative challenges. In this formidably expensive field, we have to make sure that resources are used effectively. Honourable members may have seen the historic innovation of ethnic television which, in its experimental phase in Sydney and Melbourne, was designed to test some programming options on which a permanent service can be based. Further experimental programs are being prepared for transmission. Technical difficulties delayed the extension of ethnic radio from Sydney and Melbourne to Geelong, Newcastle and Wollongong. But translator services are now in operation in Newcastle and Wollongong, and the Sydney and Melbourne transmitters will have increased strength within the next month or so. Over the coming year further government-supported ethnic programs can be expected in such cities as Adelaide, Perth, Canberra and Brisbane. 
Co-operation 
From the outline I have given it can be seen that progress has been substantial. It is not complete. I have been talking of the starting points in a three-year program. We have made a good start. We are still moving quickly in areas for which the Commonwealth alone is responsible or mainly responsible. Except in the education field, we are having to move more slowly towards agreement on some of the 19 recommendations which impinge on State responsibilities. 
For the most part, we have encountered goodwill and co-operation in our negotiations with the States; for the most part, they share our concerns and our sense of priorities. We have, by agreement, extended the scope of recommendations to cover needs in the two mainland Territories. Resulting from discussions with migrants, ethnic and other organisations and State and Territory administrations, we have made adjustments to the program, following in this the advice tendered in the Galbally report itself. For example, instead of making grants to the States for employing ethnic workers for the aged, we are making grants direct to ethnic organisations through the grant-in-aid scheme. We have reached agreement with Victoria on cost-sharing arrangements to boost translation services within the State-the Commonwealth will pay $ 140,000 representing 100 per cent of costs in the first year and 50 per cent up to agreed amounts in the second and third years. We are negotiating similar agreements with two other States. 
Four States and the Northern Territory have accepted the Commonwealth's offer of 100 per cent funding in 1979-80 for the employment of additional ethnic health workers under the Community Health Program. Commonwealth funding will continue in 1980-8 1 and 198 1-82 at a 75 per cent level, with the State authorities generally contributing the balance. In addition, a Government initiative closely associated with the spirit of the Galbally report, but which goes beyond the recommendations of that report, is the Commonwealth's invitation to the State and Northern Territory health authorities to submit proposals for the funding of additional health interpreters and translators. An amount of $940,000 has been earmarked under the Community Health Program for this purpose in 1979-80. The level of Commonwealth funding for health interpreters and translators is to be at a 100 per cent level in 1979-80 and for two years thereafter at a 75 per cent level. Along with its medical research activities, the newlyestablished Migrant Health Unit within the Commonwealth Department of Health, with the co-operation of health authorities in the States and Territories, is building up a comprehensive picture of health information currently available to migrants so that the gaps can be plugged. 
In seeking to share resources equitably, we are having to reach agreement on areas of greatest need. We are not neglecting the needs of migrants in rural areas which, whilst perhaps different in degree, may be no less pressing than the needs of individuals in greater concentrations of population. We are faced, of course, with competing claims, all of which are more or less pressing. These can be resolved only by the exercise of judgment based on an overview. We are faced with claims that go beyond what any government can reasonably meet at once. There has been criticism too which has balanced out- some have claimed we are moving too quickly, others that we have moved too slowly. Many have been keen to offer advice, and in no way do we wish to discourage those who have advice to offer. We are making sure, nevertheless, that not just the loudest voice is heard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Administrative Services' answer to Question No. 4299 in  Hansard  of 1 1 September 1 979 (pages 972-973). 
In the adjournment debate this evening the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  raised the question of deportation orders served against  Mr John  Paul Grunau, a German criminal deportee. I would like to outline to the House in very brief form the circumstances relating to this case.  Mr Grunau,  a 40-year-old West German citizen, was admitted to Australia for settlement on 20 October 1959, and in 1965 he married an Australian citizen and the couple have three daughters aged 13, 8 and 6 years. On 27 August 1975  Mr Grunau  was sentenced to six years imprisonment following his conviction in the Cairns District Court for possessing dangerous drugs for sale. He had cannabis, and the quantity of the drug was 78.8 kilos. In those days it had a value of $50,000. He thereby rendered himself liable to an order that he be deported from Australia. I might say that there were co-offenders in this incident. The total amount of marihuana involved was 159 kilos. 
I require that the debate be extended,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  After considering most carefully all the circumstances, including  Mr Grunau  's family situation- I say at this stage that the honourable member for Holt does not have a mortgage on human compassion and human concern in relation to these matters; all members of parliament feel very strongly about these sorts of situations- I directed that he should be deported in the public interest. Accordingly, I signed a deportation order against him on 13 September last to be put into effect when he completes his sentence. It is the usual practice, and has been for many years, that criminal offenders should complete their sentences before deportation orders are put into effect. I also directed- this is of particular significance-that  Mrs Grunau  and the children be offered passages to West Germany at Commonwealth expense in the event that  Mrs Grunau  elected to accompany her husband with their Australian-born children. 

 Mr Grunau, who was imprisoned at Townsville, was informed of my decision on 28 September last. He was also told of his right to apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of my decision if he were of that mind. Thereupon he indicated that he does propose to lodge such an application. There is no thought of concealing from such persons their rights under the law.  Mrs Grunau  first learned of my decision from the Queensland prison authorities on 27 September, the day before her husband was given formal notification of my decision. The prison authorities were given advance notice because it is customary to alert them about prospective visits to prisons by officers of my Department carrying out duties in relation to deportation matters. 
Subsequently on the same day  Mrs Grunau  spoke to an officer of my Department by telephone. He confirmed the advice given to her by the prison authorities with respect to the signing of the deportation order. The officer also explained to  Mrs Grunau  that an application for review could be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. This is done whenever the deportee or his spouse is within the categories of persons eligible to make such an application. I am informed that  Mr Grunau  will not become available for deportation before 5 November next, which is the date when he is due for release from prison. In the event that an application for review is submitted to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, no further action in relation to  Mr Grunau  's deportation would of course be taken pending the hearing of the application and my further consideration of the case in the light of the findings and recommendation of the Tribunal.  Mr Grunau  's unsettled lifestyle resulted in long periods of separation from his family.  His  wife and children returned to Victoria from Queensland in 1974 while he remained in Cooktown where he was employed as a miner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In 1975-76 no advertising was undertaken. In 1976-77 and 1977-78 advertising campaigns were conducted in Britain. The advertisements sought inquiries from professional and skilled people without listing occupations. 
In 1 978-79 advertising campaigns were conducted in Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands and Italy. The advertisements in Britain followed the pattern of previous years without reference to specific occupations. Similarly the advertisements in Italian newspapers did not list occupations. In West Germany the advertisements listed the following occupations- computer programmers and/or analysts, toolmakers, fitters, mechanics, turners, structural boilermakers, motor mechanics, panel beaters, cabinet makers, hairdressers (ladies), butchers, pastry cooks and bakers. 
The following occupations were listed in the advertisements in the Netherlands- Panel beaters, motor mechanics, fitters (diesel), auto electricians, refrigeration mechanics, motor vehicle painters, cabinet makers, furniture polishers, upholsterers, wood machinists, fabric cutters, butchers, bakers, pastry cooks. 
The scope and content of Australian recruitment activity overseas is influenced by the attitudes of governments in source countries, the Department's assessment of prospects and information on labour requirements in Australia. 
These occupations were identified as in demand, in the assessment of labour market conditions for various occupations in Australia prepared and regularly revised by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. 
) Overseas advertising costs were- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not personally aware of any assistance my Department has given to the New South Wales Liberal Party's Ethnic Council. A check made within the department has not revealed any evidence of or recollection of assistance. 
, (3), (4) and (5) The events referred to have not been drawn to my attention as Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr N.  G. Cowdrey of Counsel appeared on my behalf in the proceedings to which the honourable member refers. 
In his submissions to the Tribunal  Mr Cowdrey  referred to decisions of the Tribunal in other cases in which the deterrent effect of a deportation order has been considered.  Mr Cowdrey  summarised those decisions in the following terms: 
The deterrent effect on others particularly others within the same immigrant group from committing further offences of a similar nature is a matter that weighs most heavily with the Tribunal . . . ' 
Yes. 
The Government did not and does not generalise on the behaviour of migrants. This was made clear by  Mr Cowdrey  when he said: 
I am not seeking to make a judgment or carry on any judgment of the Italians in Australia: I am seeking to confine myself solely to the matters relating to this applicant alone. ' 
Some time ago I outlined to the Tribunal the policy considerations which I take into account when deciding whether a migrant should be deported. In a case where the migrant has been convicted of a criminal offence, one (and only one) of those considerations is the necessity to prevent or inhibit the commission of like offences by other persons. Insofar as the power of deportation is limited to aliens and immigrants, the only persons upon whom a deportation order can have a deterrent effect are, of course, aliens and immigrants. That the deterrent effect upon such persons of a deportation order is a relevant and important factor has been recognised on a number of occasions by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to put into effect the Government's decision to introduce an annual charge on overseas students studying in Australian Universities and colleges of advanced education. This policy was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech and elaborated in a statement I made to the House on 22 August. At that time I mentioned that the Government has been anxious to make available additional educational opportunities for overseas students. In my earlier policy statement I outlined new provisions that will make this program more responsive to the needs of people seeking to study here and the needs of their home countries. At the same time the Government has been concerned at the cost of providing educational opportunities for overseas students attending educational institutions wholly or partly funded from public moneys. Indeed, for some years the total numbers were subject to an arbitrary limit mainly because of these costs. 
The Government believes that these new policy initiatives will result in increased numbers of overseas students coming to Australia and improvement in selection criteria and arrangements. With these considerations in mind, the Government has decided that private overseas students attending Australian universities and colleges of advanced education, which are fully funded by the Commonwealth, should be called upon to contribute towards the cost of their education. The charges do not apply at this time to overseas students attending other educational institutions which receive funds from the Commonwealth. The question of applying charges to overseas students at those institutions is currently being examined but there is no likelihood that such charges will be introduced for the 1 980 academic year. 
The level of charges set by the Government has been determined after taking into account the costs of providing the courses as well as fees charged by other comparable countries. We have also been conscious of the need to set charges at a level which will not unduly deter overseas students from undertaking studies in Australia. 
I now turn to the detailed provisions of the Bill. I will also refer to matters that we propose to include in regulations that will be made under the Bill so that honourable members will be able to obtain a full appreciation of the legislation. Clause 5 of the Bill imposes the charge on overseas students enrolled in a prescribed course for a year, Clause 4 of the Bill defines the term 'overseas student' and provides definitions of the courses and educational institutions to which the charge will apply. The charge will apply to persons other than permanent residents who enrol in certain courses at universities and colleges of advanced education. Courses concerned will be those leading to a degree, diploma or associate diploma, as well as compulsory prerequisite courses for which no tuition fee is charged. The charges to apply from 1 January 1980, will range up to a maximum of $2,500 per annum. The actual charges to apply will be prescribed in the regulations. They will be based on the costs of providing particular courses and will be as follows: Students undertaking a Masters' or Ph.D 
Degree will be charged $2,500 per annum; students undertaking a medical, veterinary science or dentistry course will be charged $2,000 per annum; students undertaking other award courses will be charged $1,500 per annum. It is estimated that about three-quarters of the students affected by the charges will pay the minimum rate of $1,500 per annum. The regulations will provide that in the following circumstances students will be required to pay only half the charges which I have listed: 
Where a student undertakes a course of study for which the course load, as assessed by the institution concerned, is no more than half that of the normal full-time award course; or 
Where a student commences the first semester or year of his course in the second half of the year, or completes the final semester dr year of his course in the first half of the year; or 
Where a preliminary prerequisite course is of no more than six months' duration. 
This Bill provides for the charge to be paid by overseas students commencing new courses at prescribed institutions from I January 1980. Students continuing courses at these institutions will not be affected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill provides for the collection of the charge to be imposed by the overseas Students Charge Bill 1979. Clause 4 of the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill 1979 provides that the charge will be due for payment at the time of enrolment or 15 March, whichever is the later. However, payment of an amount equal to the charge will be required prior to visa issue for persons who are to travel from overseas or prior to the issue of a further temporary entry permit for students remaining in Australia. An exception to these arrangements will apply in respect of overseas students who come to Australia under Australia's development assistance programs. The Bill includes provision in clause 7 for these students to be relieved of liability to pay the charge where a scholarship is awarded by a Commonwealth department or authority. This provision was included principally to cover the case of scholarships awarded by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. In these circumstances the charge would be paid by the Bureau, which will receive additional funds for this purpose within the appropriate aid vote, to ensure that the overall level of assistance to developing countries is not reduced. It will mean that there will be a more accurate reflection of the true level of assistance Australia makes available under these programs. 
There is also provision to permit development assistance funds to be applied to meet the charge in respect of students sponsored for entry by the governments of developing countries, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees to such an arrangement. In addition, where a home government is to meet the charge, there is provision for payment to be deferred beyond the issue of a visa or entry permit subject to agreement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Government has also agreed that there should be other exemptions from the charges on a continuing basis. These will cover the following: 
Postgraduate students who are the holders of a scholarship providing a basic stipend of at least $3,500 per annum awarded by a university or college of advanced education for study at the institution concerned 
Students undertaking postgraduate courses who are the holders of a scholarship awarded by the Australian-American Educational Foundation 
Students who are the subject of approved reciprocal exchange agreements between Australian universities or colleges of advanced education and overseas tertiary institutions 
Students coming to Australia as part of an external studies course 
Students holding postgraduate fellowships awarded by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, an international organisation or an overseas government, who are undertaking a course funded by these bodies; and 
Residents of external territories. 
These categories of exemptions will be prescribed in the regulations. The Government also proposes that some students will not be liable to pay the charge. They are, firstly, students already in Australia who were admitted specifically to undertake the final two years of their secondary education in Australia as a preliminary to an approved tertiary course, and who commence that course in 1980 and 1981. The Government has decided to exempt this group of students from charges because they came here in the expectation that they could proceed to their chosen tertiary course without charge. The Government is aware that by coming to Australia these students have already committed themslves to education in Australia and may have adversely affected their prospects of further study in their home countries or elsewhere, if they are now unable to pay charges in Australia. Secondly, they are students already in Australia who commence new courses at the same level of study that could be regarded as a normal progression from their current course. However, they will need to be capable of completing the new course in the minimum time which would have been taken if they had enrolled in that course initially. This will include students changing from, for example, a B.A. to a B.A./L.B. degree or continuing to a Diploma of Education on completion of a first degree. This exemption would not however apply to those commencing a postgraduate degree. Included also are students changing from masters to doctoral awards or vice versa, but only where either award has not been conferred, and finally, students currently undertaking English language courses as a preliminary to an approved tertiary course but only in respect of tertiary courses which are commenced in 1980. 
It should be noted that these exemptions are of a transitional nature as they apply only to students already in Australia. Provision will also be made in the regulations for a refund of the charge in full where a student withdraws his enrolment within two weeks of commencing his course, or where liability is not in fact incurred. A partial refund will be payable where a greater amount has been paid than the amount of charge for which the student is legally liable. It is also proposed under the regulations to refund half the amount of the charge where a course has run for no more than half its normal duration in any year and in the event of the death of the student, the withdrawal through serious illness of the student, the withdrawal through serious illness or death of a parent, spouse or child, or the grant of resident status to the student. If for any reason an overseas student does not pay the charge for which he is liable a debt due to the Commonwealth will arise. At this stage it is not proposed that there would be any additional penalty for the non-payment of the charge. It will be appreciated that in these circumstances the entry permit for the person concerned could also be cancelled or at least not renewed. The Bill represents an important pan of the development of a more effective and viable program under which people from overseas may come here to obtain qualifications of use to their careers and of value to thier home countries. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do. This morning the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  obtained leave to make a personal statement about the deportation order I have signed in respect of John Paul Grunau. It has been confirmed that  Mrs Grunau-  or at least a person purporting to be  Mrs Grunau-  telephoned the Townsville Prison when she was told of the decision to order the deportation of her husband. On 27 September a woman who identified herself as  Mrs Grunau  spoke by telephone to an officer of my Department located in Townsville. That officer confirmed the advice of the Prison authorities in relation to the signing of the deportation order and informed her that  Mr Grunau  was able to apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of my decision. 
As I made clear in my statement to the House on 9 October1979, part of my decision in respect of the deportation of  Mr Grunau  was that  Mrs Grunau,  and the children of  Mr and Mrs Grunau,  should be offered passages to the Federal Republic of Germany at Commonwealth expense if  Mrs Grunau  elected to accompany her husband with their Australian-born children. That decision was made when I signed the deportation order on 13 September1979. 
If I gave the impression that that information had been conveyed to  Mrs Grunau  I now make it clear that that was my decision and that this matter was not discussed with  Mrs Grunau  during the telephone conversations with her. The honourable member for Holt will receive official advice of my decisions including this offer of passages for  Mrs Grunau  and the Grunau children. 
The four categories are as I stated them. It probably would be more precise to say that the fourth main category is that of the independent applications. In relation to the selection of people in the independent classification, under the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System attention is paid to occupation and the skills and qualifications that people have and the relationship which that has to demand in Australia. That is continuing; but, under the NUMAS scheme, there is flexibility which allows the entry to Australia of people who score particularly well under the NUMAS selection system; those are outstanding migrants who may have occupations which are outside those classified in the information given to my Department by other Commonwealth departments. What we are seeking to do is to have a selection system which brings to Australia migrants who are most capable of settling in successfully and playing a real role in the development of this country. We need to have flexibility in the assessment and selection system and that is being provided by NUMAS. 
I have seen Press reports in a story entitled 'The Willing Workers' in the  Australian  of 16 October. This article quotes the former Federal  President  of the Storemen and Packers Union,  Mr Fred  Nicol, as saying: 
It is the first time in my 2 1 years we have had to discriminate against people. And we are discriminating against the Vietnamese. But there are reasons. 
Later in the same story he said: 
But the problem for us was that industrially the Vietnamese and the others were equal because all were full members- and an employer has the right to stand down whoever he wishes if all are equal. 
The story continued: 

 Mr Nicol said that when this was raised with the management the union was told that the Vietnamese were better workers and more willing. 'We didn't refute that,' he said, 'that could well be' 
When all things are taken into account- the country they come from, the conditions they work under and the money they are getting here this would be a gold mine with favourable working conditions compared with what they are used to- so naturally they would work hard. ' 
Later in the report  Mr Nicol  said that his union: 
. was now sitting waiting for reaction to what has amounted to a complete ban on Vietnamese. 
Finally,  Mr Brown  from the Golden Circle cannery said: 
There are always a number who turn up on the chance of getting work and these are the people who are keen to get a job. Instead of taking a day off at home they have deliberately come to look for work. 
The author of the article concludes: 
It thus appears that the Vietnamese refugees- in the words of the TV ad- are giving Australia all they've got 
A number of aspects of this newspaper story concerned me. I recall for the House the fact that  Mr Nicol  is quoted as saying: 
It is the first time in my 2 1 years we have had to discriminate against people . . . 
On 10 September 1976 I issued a Press release entitled 'Minister Acts on Alleged Discrimination in Queensland'. It involved alleged discrimination against British migrants by the same man and the same union. That was, in fact, investigated by the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
On the face of it, this would appear to be a breach of section 14 of the Racial Discrimination Act which states, amongst other things: 
It is unlawful ... to prevent or hinder another person from joining a trade union by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that other person. 
So, on the face of it, there does appear to be a breach of the Racial Discrimination Act. However, I would like to make a couple of points. In the same article there are comments from other union officers that they have had no trouble with Vietnamese or refugee members of their unions. I think that that is to the credit of those union officials. It is a fact that refugees have demonstrated a very great capacity to succeed in the Australian situation. They are keen to get work. Professional men are prepared to take jobs which are not their particular occupations. Refugees will take jobs which other people will not take and are keen to put something back into this country for providing them with a piao this ce of resettlement. 
This is a very serious situation. I will be taking the matter up with the Attorney-General for him to communicate with the Commissioner for Community Relations to see whether there has been a breach of the Racial Discrimination Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia has not entered into any specific trade agreements with ASEAN. Bilateral trade agreements are in force between Australia and Malayasia, Indonesia and the Philippines. Another is at present under negotiation with Thailand. The detail of the existing agreements is set out in the Australian Treaty Series which is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
A formal framework to promote relations, though not in the form of an economic agreement, has been agreed by ASEAN and Australia. An annual ASEAN-Australia Forum, established in 1974, is the principal body charged with promoting all aspects of co-operation between ASEAN and Australia. Between forums, an ASEAN-Australia Consultative Meeting (AACM) meets quarterly as pan of the mechanism to promote further a co-operative and constructive approach to the development of trade relations. Special Working Groups under the AACM pursue co-operation in trade and trade-related matters, development assistance and civil aviation. An ASEAN-Australia Economic Co-operation 
Program, to advance development co-operation, has existed since 1974. 
No. A Co-operation Agreement between the European Communities (EC) and the five ASEAN countries is at present under negotiation between them. The Commission of the EC has said that the view of both sides is that the agreement should be in principle: 
aim to consolidate, deepen and diversify commercial and economic relations between the two regions within the framework which the agreement will provide; 
be non-preferential and of an evolutionary nature and be able to take account of political and economic developments on both sides; 
be between equal partners but recognise the level of development of the ASEAN countries; 
recognise the emergence of ASEAN as a viable and cohesive economic grouping. ' 
The purpose of the ASEAN-EC Conferences on Industrial Co-operation- the first held in April 1977 and the second in February 1979- was to encourage contacts between businessmen, bankers and government officials with the aim of developing investment and trade between the two areas. 
The first ASEAN-Australia Industrial Co-operation Conference was held in Melbourne on 19-21 June 1978. It was considered successful and Australia's proposal for a second such conference and other investment measures are under consideration by ASEAN. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The passenger cards contain in English the words 'The card must be completed in the English language'. The cards are collected by Customs officers acting for my Department. They are processed by staff not recruited for multi-lingual service. Information obtained from the passenger card is used by a number of Departments. It is available also for evidentiary purposes before Courts. 
No. It is of relevance that, other than where a mark is required, all answers to questions on passenger cards are to be given in the English language. This facilitates identification and passenger clearance at ports, the subsequent handling of the documents and retrieval of data. 
For some time multi-lingual pamphlets were made available to travellers to assist in the preparation of passenger cards. The practice was discontinued since they were rarely made use of by passengers. 
No. U.K. practice is not necessarily relevant to Australian needs. 
Passenger cards are not often presented in a language other than English. No specific record is held of the incidences where they were not. In those instances where the answers to questions are not in English passengers can be assisted, with the aid of an interpreter if necessary, to complete the card in the English language. 
The answers to the questions on passenger cards referred to would not differ in content if completed in native script but subsequent translation for essential purposes would be a time consuming and expensive undertaking. 
No. 
I am not able to comment. However, English is in very common use in countries caught up with international travel. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question of 1 1 September 1 979 relates to the charges to be introduced on 1 November 1979 for certain services to be provided by my Department. Of these services- and there are seven of them- only one appears to have direct relevance for the question asked: obtaining information by way of cables initiated by applicants/clients. 
Applicants for entry to Australia often seek expeditious processing of their applications or information on the progress of the application at overseas offices by cable communication overseas. The proposed charges are intended to recover those costs which are incurred by the Government at the initiative of the applicant. 
Where normal processing of an application warrants cable communication, current practice will continue: the Department will pay for the cable. 
In this context, it is usual for State or Federal Parliamentarians to seek answers, without specifying the means by which these are expedited. It is thus a matter for my Department to decide what information, if any, is needed from overseas and how this is to be obtained. In such circumstances, no charges would apply to parliamentary representations. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
As honourable members would know, the Australian Government did negotiate with the Indonesian authorities last year and there was an agreed list of some 600 people. This list was to provide the background for the reunion of those people still in East Timor with their families in Australia. Movement of those people started early this year or late last year. So far some 285 people have come to Australia under this reunion program. An additional 85 people have been reunited with their families under normal migration arrangements. The program was proceeding satisfactorily, if slowly, but unfortunately in recent times it has slowed down. This is a cause of some concern to me and my Department. The Government is presently having consultations with the Indonesian Government to see whether the program can be got moving again. We want to see the families reunited as quickly as possible and all our endeavours will be aimed at achieving that result. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, what we have just heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is one of the most damaging indictments of Australian Labor Party policy on immigration that I have ever heard. What he is saying is that at present in Australia there is unacceptably high unemployment and that the semi-skilled labour market is completely saturated. Yet the policies that the Labor Party adopted at its conference in Adelaide just recently do nothing more than increase the entry to Australia of semi-skilled and unskilled people-not decrease, but increase. 
It is interesting that the honourable member for Port Adelaide raises this matter of public importance because I see his colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  sitting beside him. I would have thought that if we were going to talk about immigration it would have been the shadow Minister for Immigration who would have raised the matter. Perhaps the honourable member for Port Adelaide has recognised his leader's statement relating to the entry into this Parliament of the up-coming member for Wills and is looking for a new slot. Perhaps he is going to take over the immigration portfolio. But I would have thought that the honourable member for Maribyrnong would have raised this matter of public importance. That he is not even speaking in the debate I think places the concern of the Opposition squarely in focus. Obviously he knows more about the situation than the honourable member for Port Adelaide does. 
Let us look at this total immigration intake because it bears close scrutiny if we are to analyse just exactly what goes on. The intake of migrants to Australia is made up of four broad categories, namely, refugees, family reunion cases, the free flow from New Zealand and the admission of migrants with skills currently in short supply or with proved entrepreneurial capacity. In this year the Government plans to admit about 16,000 refugees of whom about 14,000 will come from the Indo-Chinese area. The Labor Party plans to admit more refugees. Of course the Numerical Multi-factor Assessment System does not apply to the selection of refugees. Therefore, there is no testing of refugees in relation to their work skills or their capacity to find jobs in Australia. If we are worried about the possibilities of unemployment amongst migrants it is strange that the Labor Party has a policy which would create further difficulties for people coming here and attempting to find jobs. 
The next category is the family reunion category. Only half of NUMAS applies to this category. In this category we have the largest entry of semi-skilled and unskilled migrants to Australia. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide has pointed out to the House, the semiskilled and unskilled area is the most difficult one in relation to employment possibilities in Australia. But what does the Labor Party say about that? It says that it is going to increase the numbers coming in under the family reunion category. It does not say exactly how. It has not delineated that matter, but it has made the broad statement that it is going to increase the entry under the family reunion category. We know from experience over a great number of years that in so doing that would increase the number of semi-skilled and unskilled people coming into this country looking for jobs in that most difficult employment area. Yet this is the policy of the Labor Party. 
One of the other areas of entry to Australia concerns the free flow travel arrangements across the Tasman. It is a fact that unemployment amongst New Zealanders in Australia is high. From memory, about 10.3 per cent was the last figure I have seen. There is no assessment of migrants from across the Tasman- New Zealand citizens- under the arrangements presently in place, which have been in place for a number of years and which were kept in place by the previous Labor Government. Is the honourable member for Port Adelaide suggesting that we are going to introduce barriers to the free movement of people across the Tasman? Is he suggesting that before we allow New Zealand citizens to come to Australia occupational tests are going to be applied? This is one of the largest intakes of migrants into Australia, yet it does not come under NUMAS. It is one of the reasons why we have an unemployment rate- in new arrivalsabove the total market area. What is the Labor Party saying in relation to this? If it is going to bring in a barrier to movement across the Tasman why does it not come out publicly and say so? I do not think the honourable member is game to do so. I do not think that it is the Labor Party's policy. It is just another demonstration of the sheer incompetence and lack of understanding of the honourable member for Port Adelaide in relation to the total intake of migrants into this country. 
The last broad category of entry into Australia applies to those independent migrants with skills currently in short supply or with proved entrepreneurial capacity. I have been accused in this House this afternoon of misleading the Parliament. I take that charge very seriously. I am supposed to have misled the Parliament by saying that occupational demands or the skills possessed by independent migrants are taken into account. The honourable member for Port Adelaide says they are not. I draw to the attention of the honourable member and the House Part A of NUMAS which states: 
Factor A1: Skills recognised in Australia- maximum points 6. 
A2: Occupational demand- maximum points 14. 
A3: Pre-arranged employment- maximum points 5. 
The total number of points available under economic factors in NUMAS is 50. If one adds those figures I have just read out one will find that half the number of points allocated under economic factors relate to occupational demand, skills and employment possibilities in Australia. So it is absolute nonsense and entirely misleading to tell this House that skills possessed by migrants are not taken into account when they make an application under the independent applicants category to come to this country. 
I am not sure whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide would be anxious to increase the total number of points available under NUMAS in relation to occupational demand or skills above the 50 per cent category. If somebody does not score well in those three areasthat is, skills recognised in Australia, occupational demand and pre-arranged employment- there is very little chance that that applicant will be successful in migrating to Australia because he or she will not be able to get the required number of 30 points under Part A of NUMAS. If they do succeed, it shows that they are absolutely outstanding under other factors which are taken into account. I would hope that honourable members would like to see a selection system operating in relation to the entry of people into Australia which gives flexibility and allows outstanding people to migrate to this country. 
Many statements have been made by the honourable member, not only today but over a period, in relation to the entry of people to Australia and unemployment. The simplistic suggestion has been made that there is unacceptably high unemployment and, therefore, we should cut down on the number of migrants coming to Australia. If he does not want to take my word for it, I refer him to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of Wednesday 17 October by Professor W. M. Corden, Professor of Economics at the Australian National University. The article states: 
On the other hand, the immediate effects of immigration might be to raise the unemployment numbers in particular categories of labor. 
The matter is complex. 
The general evidence from Australia 's own history as well as the post-war histories of European countries which absorbed vast numbers of guest workers and immigrants, is that immigration does not - 
I repeat 'does not': increase unemployment. 
In practice, high immigration has been associated with booming economies. It can be argued that the economic booms cause the immigration, not vice versa, But, it is clear that the migrant flows did not destroy the booms. My own view is that increased immigration at this time would probably act as a valuable stimulus to the economy, yielding widespread benefits. This view could be disputed. 
There it is, in plain English, from a person who has done a little bit of study in this area rather than make a superficial examination which is characteristic of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
What we are talking about is the movement of people to Australia and the method of selection. NUMAS is not a policy; it is a selection process. I was very disturbed to hear the allegation of the honourable member for Port Adelaide that it is somehow racist in its application. It is certainly not. It was designed to ensure consistency, fairness and responsibility throughout the world. It is applied equally no matter to which country the citizen applying to come to Australia belongs. What we are doing under NUMAS is selecting people and matching their capacities against factors which have been shown to be important in successful settlement into the Australian situation. The previous system was demonstrated on a number of occasions to be inflexible, especially in terms of the criteria for eligibility under occupations. 
What we are looking at particularly in this debate today are the independent categories. The Opposition is suggesting that we should cut out entirely independent applicants to this country. Let us look at some of the great benefits that flow from the present system. There is no doubt that production bottlenecks in some areas of industry in Australia can be overcome by selective recruitment of people overseas. For example, at present hardrock miners are needed in Western Australia. It is very difficult to train people to be hardrock miners and it is very difficult to find them. They are in short supply. If we can recruit hardrock miners from overseas this will lead to the further employment in this industry alone, it is estimated, from six to eight other people in Australia. Those six to eight people are the semiskilled and unskilled people in the community. We all know that that is the area of greatest need for employment opportunities. In addition to that such recruitment allows the importation of needed skills and techniques. 
We are looking for productivity growth and we will get productivity growth if we import skills and new techniques into this country. If we confine the migrant intake to semi-skilled and unskilled people rather than develop the total amount of resources available to Australian people through productivity increases we will diminish the growth. The Labor Party is effectively espousing a slowing of the growth of the standard of living in Australia. We are looking for an increase in productivity rather than a slowing down of the increase in productivity. In addition, of course, by selective recruitment we can increase the geographic mobility of the Australian work force. It has been demonstrated time and time again that migrants are more geographically mobile within any one nation than are the people who are born and settled in Australia. We can look at the age and skill mixes, which are so necessary in the development of the Australian economy. We can look at capital inflow and entrepreneurial skills. For example, the Labor Government of Tasmania is at present very interested in bringing to Australia people with entrepreneurial skills who are prepared to invest their money here and to provide employment opportunities for Australians by risking capital. The people can do that by coming to this country and making their futures here. 
The sheer fact of the situation is this: What the Labor Party is proposing is a recipe for disaster. I put it as strongly as that. The Opposition's immigration policies are unclear. I say that they are unclear because I, and also the ethnic communities, have been trying to get some definition out of spokesmen from the Opposition in relation to these policies. It is impossible to get that definition. What we would have under the Labor Party policies is a marked increase in semi-skilled and unskilled people. This by no stretch of the imagination can be said to be in the best interests of the Australian people. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) I assume that the honourable member is referring to persons from Indo-China arriving in Australia without prior authority. The answer is 20 1 1 . 
None. 
and (3) See 1(b). 
A career in the Australian Public Service, like a career in any of the other public services in Australia, is one to be highly regarded. I do not belong to that section of the community which makes fun of or derides in any way the contribution of public servants. Because we would like to see the Australian Public Service manned by the best people from within the Australian community, it has been decided to launch a program which will make information available to all of the Australian community about the career opportunities within the Australian Public Service. The special program has been designed to make this information available particularly to migrant parents who do not speak English as their mother tongue so that they will be aware of the conditions obtaining within the Australian Public Service and, most particularly, will be able to advise their children about the opportunities that exist within the Australian Public Service. 
There is no discrimination either for or against any segment of the Australian community. There is a requirement that people seeking to enter the Australian Public Service do so on a competitive basis. That condition will be maintained. But the essential aim of the program is to make information available to a wider range of the Australian community about the opportunities that exist in the Public Service. 
I am aware of reports of the arrest of some people in the United Kingdom who are said to be New Zealanders and associated with particular crimes. Naturally enough, I am as concerned as the honourable member for Hindmarsh that the incidence of crime and, in particular, drug related crime, as in this case, in Australia should be absolutely minimised. The question of the introduction of passport controls or similar controls between Australia and New Zealand has been under scrutiny for a long time, as the honourable member would know from when he was Minister for Labor and Immigration. There is close cooperation and consultation between New Zealand authorities and Australian authorities in both the immigration area and the police area. My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services was recently in close contact with his New Zealand counterpart. I understand that there will be a visit to Australia by the New Zealand Minister responsible to discuss again the way in which the police forces operating in Australia and New Zealand can co-operate. There is no guarantee that by the introduction of passport controls we will prevent the entry of criminals. It is simplistic to believe that merely by the introduction of some sort of control we will prevent the movement of criminals between one country and another. 
This is a question of great concern. It has exercised the minds of successive Ministers and governments. It was raised again at the most recent meeting of Australian Ministers concerned with immigration, which was also attended by the New Zealand Minister. Again I say that I am not convinced at this stage that the introduction of controls would result in superior benefitsbenefits which would attract me to that proposition- over and above the very real benefits which flow, in the relationships between the two countries, from the free flow travel arrangements which presently operate. It is a question of concern and it is under active consideration, but at this stage I am not convinced that the introduction of controls would necessarily have the effect which the honourable member has suggested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as follows: 
It is understood that Miss Transkei and Miss Bophuthatswana were issued passports by the authorities of the so-called 'homelands' created by the South African Government. However, as Australia does not recognise these homelands visas could not be inscribed in the passports available to them. Instead each contestant was issued by the Australian Government with a 'letter of authority' which enabled them to travel to Australia. 
Such letters of authority do not define racial, geographic or representational aspects pertinent to the grantees. Only the following data are included: 
Full name, date and place of birth, identifying number and type of authority, date of issue and expiry, number of entries to Australia allowed, number of persons included, authorised period of stay, category of traveller, and place of issue of document. 
Provision is also made for the photograph and the signature of the grantee to be included in the document. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Miss Universe Pageant was staged by private enterprise as part of the 150th anniversary celebrations for the State of Western Australia. The Commonwealth Government was not a party to any sponsorship of candidates and the involvement of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was related only to the grant of visas for persons associated with the staging of the event. 
The passports presented by the two candidates known as Miss Transkei and Miss Bophuthatswana were issued by the authorities of the so called homelands of Transkei and Bophuthatswana. However, as Australia does not recognise these homelands, visas could not be inscribed in the passports issued by them. Letters of authority to enable travel to Australia were issued to the two candidates. 
No. 
The two contestants purportedly represented the areas whose names they bore just as Miss England, Miss Wales and Miss Scotland represented those particular areas. There could be no suggestion that the separate representation of these three regions of Britain indicated that Australia regards each as a separate country. The degree of official endorsement or support by the South African Government is not known nor relevant to the question of their admission. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question because I am aware, as he is, that there is a great deal of concern within the Australian community about the situation of people in East Timor. As the House will be aware, I announced that following consultations with the Indonesian Government the Government had decided to offer, as the honourable member mentioned in his question, an additional $2m in response to an appeal by the Indonesian Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross which has been carrying out relief operations in East Timor. Detailed arrangements are now being made with those two bodies for the most effective implementation of this offer. It appears that the chief need is for effective transportation of relief supplies within East Timor and that problem is being addressed at the present time. 
This is not, of course, the first occasion that the Australian Government has provided relief for the situation in East Timor. In fact, the total value of Australian relief to this area since 1975 is of the order of $4m. The Australian Red Cross announced a contribution to the appeal and has launched an appeal throughout the Australian community. In addition to the $2m that has been made available, the Government has decided that donations of $2 or more to that appeal during the current financial year will be tax deductible. I hope there will be a very ready response and I anticipate a very good response from the Australian community to that appeal. 
Final plans are being made for the dispatch of an initial consignment of vitamin-enriched biscuits direct to Dili by air and I hope that that consignment will go to Dili next week. I expect that an officer from our embassy in Jakarta will be in Dili at that time to receive the shipment and to ensure its transfer to the IRC and to the ICRC program. Arrangements are being made for the shipment from Australia to Dili of a consignment of 1,200 tonnes of corn, 40,000 square metres of plastic sheeting and the balance of the vitaminenriched milk biscuits for distribution to the people of East Timor. In summation, the Australian Government has recognised the plight of people in East Timor. There have been effective consultations with the Indonesian authorities and the relief agencies which are making these materials available to people in very great need. 
I have received a request for entry permits for some trade union officials from Vietnam to attend a conference in Sydney organised by the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia which is to be held, I think, from 12 to 14 November. I point out in passing that the leading officials of the Building Workers Industrial Union have a very close association with the Soviet Union and strongly support the policies that that country pursues. I am concerned that any visits to Australia should not result in violence within the Australian community. I can well understand the feeling of people who have been forced to flee from their homelands because of persecution of themselves or thenfamilies and who have risked their lives in order to seek for themselves and their families a new, secure and democratic future. I can understand their reaction to the visit to Australia of people who, in the past, have offered provocative comments. 
It is a difficult situation. But Australia, in its development, must allow the free expression of views, so long as those views do not result in the creation of violence. I appeal, as I have in the past, to all refugees who have been granted permanent residence in Australia to realise that it is in their best interests and in the interests of the Australian nation that they do not react to any provocative statements that may be made by visitors who may put forward a point of view which the people in Australia find totally anathema. I will be making arrangements for officers of my Department to be in contact with the leaders of Indo-Chinese communities in Australia to ensure that they understand that the invitation was extended by the Building Workers Industrial Union, and not by the Australian Government, and that it would be in the best interests of the refugees themselves and the Australian community in general if no action were undertaken which could lead in any way to any violent demonstrations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(0- 
Car hire costs are difficult to determine accurately. An officer who has permission to use his own private vehicle, even though approval was given primarily for departure tax duties may have to use his vehicle for other official purposes. There is no breakdown of expenditure to this degree as it is all recorded as Regulation 90 allowances. 
(2)- 
The difference between gross and net collections are refunds. 
In answer to the Leader of the Opposition's rather snide introduction to the question, let me say that yesterday I was talking about the future population of Australia, the effect of the fertility trends which are now present in the population, the likely fertility trends in the future, the contribution that people born in Australia can make to population growth and also the contribution that immigration can make to population growth in Australia. It is a fact that in a number of Western countries we are seeing a decline in fertility to the extent that in some places a stagnant population level has been reached and in some other places a declining population level has been reached. This development has real implications for countries in that situation. For instance, if a country has a stagnant or declining population, it has an aging work force which is less resilient, less mobile and less retrainable; and so it is of immense importance not only to the governments of such countries but also to private industry within those countries to analyse and to forecast population and fertility trends. Some countries have initiated what are called natalist policies. It has been suggested to me that Australia should adopt pro-natalist policies. The evidence so far available to me suggests that pro-natalist policies do not have a long term effect, but I am not satisfied that that is necessarily the case. I am not certain at this stage whether economic inducements will persuade people to have more children. That is why I have asked the Australian Population and Immigration Council to have a look at matters of this kind. But I do think that the trends in fertility and the future population of Australia are something which is of the utmost concern for us all. To treat the matter in the rather cavalier and snide way in which the Leader of the Opposition has treated it does him no credit whatsoever. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the States and Northern Territory Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill 1 979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
During the debate on East Timor on Tuesday of this week in this chamber comments were made which I claim misrepresent me. In particular I refer to a comment by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who said: 
The sad thing about it is that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  . . . implied that really most of the losses had occurred during the civil war between the Fretilin and the Democratic Union of Timor. 
In the same debate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  indicated that one Government Minister had said: 
. that most of the people would have lost their lives in what has been called a civil war. 
I presume that he was referring to me. The facts of the matter are that following a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 November 1979 I was interviewed on several occasions as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs by members of the media concerning, amongst other aspects relating to East Timor, the loss of life which has occurred there. I presume that it was to one or more of these interviews that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid were referring. I have not raised the matter earlier as I wished to check as far as possible any transcripts of interviews I gave on this matter. I can find no evidence which would justify the statements by the honourable gentlemen. Neither appears toreflect accurately what I said. When asked by an interviewer whether I accepted figures suggesting that the population of East Timor had been depleted by at least 100,000 in the last four years of Indonesian rule, I said: 
I think it's terribly difficult to evaluate accurately the situation. It's probably of that order, probably, I say, of that order, but it wouldn't be merely since the Indonesian administration has taken place. There has of course been a civil war in Timor. There was the Indonesian administrative takeover and since that time of course there have been people in the hills and places such as that, and it would appear from the reports coming out that a large number of people have died during that period of time. I think we should understand though that malnutrition and unfortunately disease have been endemic in that area for a very long period of time. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition nor the honourable member for Reid nor I know precisely the extent of the loss of life which has occurred in East Timor. We all acknowledge that there has been tragic loss of life, and this saddens us. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development 's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1 979, pages 2657-8). 
For the information of honourable members I present the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Review 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No statistics are kept. (b) Applications for Australian citizenship refused on security grounds: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $ 1 5.970m up to 30 September 1 979. 
Costs incurred up to 30 September 1979 have been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Department will co-operate fully if the Australian Taxation Office seeks its assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A large proportion of the 'Others ' category included approvals of applications lodged prior to 7 June 1978 which were considered under the previous policy for change of status. Also included are approvals on compassionate or other humanitarian grounds, approvals following representations including from Members of the Parliament drawing attention to special features warranting approval, and other Special cases in small numbers covering fiance(e)s previously admitted as temporary entrants, working holiday makers and students other than private students. 
There is some overlapping among these groups and a precise breakdown of the reasons for approvals could only be prepared on the basis of a study of each case file. I do not think this is warranted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Statistics are generally not maintained on the number of representatives from individual churches and religious organisations entering Australia on temporary residence visas. 
However the numbers of persons who have arrived in Australia on temporary residence visas specifically for religious purposes are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The intake of refugees to Australia is a part of the total immigration program and the Government accepts that, where possible, programs for the settlement of refugees should be provided within the context of those for migrants generally. It should be noted that refugees from Laos and Kampuchea are being resettled in Australia under this program as well as Vietnamese. 
The Commonwealth Government provides a framework, in terms of programs and services, to meet immediate postarrival needs. This is carried out through the provision of hostel accommodation, the payment of social security benefits, and English language tuition and other orientation. There is a scheme whereby the Commonwealth Government reimburses voluntary agencies for providing needed clothing and other personal requisites to newly-arrived refugees. 
The Commonwealth Government provides an accommodation advisory service at migrant centres and centre-based officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service provide assistance with job placements. 
No formal representations have been received from the United States or Thai Governments. Representations have been received from the Hmong- Australia Cultural Society regarding the resettlement in Australia of Hmong refugees in Thailand.  92 Octane Fuel (Question No. 4657) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows (figures refer to the period 1 January 1979 to 31 July 1979): 
1 ) The number of people included in formal applications received by overseas posts was approximately 94,500. This does not include those who enquired about migration but did not proceed to application stage. 
The number of people approved by normal process overseas for permanent residence was approximately 23,900. 
The numbers of visas issued in each category were: (a) 5,553, (b) 3,489, (c) 643, (d) 9,372, (e) 1,678,  (0  1,450, (g) 82,(h)241,(i)8l,(j)347. 
The visas would have been issued on the basis of the different policies applying before and after 1 January 1979, depending on the date of lodgment of the application. 
Note: The statistics in ( 1 ), (2 ) and ( 3 ) are preliminary and exclude numbers under the respective categories for some posts which had not reported for parts of the period. They 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of overseas students attending Australian educational institutions during each of the last five years (a) under bilateral arrangements and (b) as private students were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Within the scope of policy, provision exists for sportsmen and women in the top levels of their sport to be considered for change of status if they meet certain migrant criteria, are considered to be economically viable, and their presence here contributes to the advancement of their sport and to the benefit of aspiring players in Australia. 
Applications for permanent residency from other sportsmen and women who have been here since 1975 would be considered on their individual merits, allowing for such factors as marriage to an Australian resident, family disposition and ability to maintain themselves without recourse to dependence on social welfare. 
It is recognised that sportsmen and women over a period of 4 years in Australia would develop personal and financial ties. As stated, cases presenting special circumstances would be looked at on an individual basis, but there is no intention of relaxing the rules related to change of status for sportsmen and women beyond those already outlined. 
There is no reason why sportsmen and women who intend to stay in Australia indefinitely or for extended periods should not apply for migrant entry rather than temporary entry at the outset and so obviate a need to seek change of status after arrival. This in fact is the correct procedure for such persons to follow. 
Consideration is currently being given to a variation of the rules relating to the issue of temporary entry visas to sportsmen and women, which in some instances will limit the numbers being admitted to Australia temporarily, so that Australian residents of equal talent will be given opportunities to enter the higher levels of sports. Such an approach, however, would still allow for the temporary entry of sportsmen and women whose skills were regarded by the appropriate sporting national body as of benefit to a particular sport. No other review of policy in this regard is contemplated at present. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The detail sought about applicants for Australian citizenship is not maintained in any readily available form. Statistics of persons granted citizenship by country of former citizenship and year of arrival in Australia can however be compiled and will be made available to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
Statistics of applications for Australian citizenship refused are included in the answer to Question No. 4909. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Statistics on the birthplaces of applicants for migration to Australia are not maintained. Complete details of applications by country of application are available only since 1 974-75. They are contained in the following table, which also shows visa issues by country of selection which may in a small number of instances diner from country of application. It should also be noted that because application may be made in one year and approval given in the next, visas issued in a year do not necessarily correspond to applications in the same year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Not available. 
1960-50,268, 1961-41,895, 1962-53,21 1, 1963-43,509, 1964-36,305, 1965-37,550, 1966-35,476, 1967-49,635, 1968-44,926, 1969-38,370, 1970-36,265, 1971-38,799, 1972-38,402, 1973-57,102, 1974-87,549, 1975-84,059, 1976-118,189, 1977-70,706, 1978-65,094. 
The average processing time at present from the date of receipt of application until the date of approval is approximately 15 weeks. 
The average time between the approval of an application and conferral of citizenship varies considerably. Where applicants choose to have citizenship conferred at ceremonies conducted by officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the average time is only several weeks. However where citizenship is conferred at ceremonies arranged by local government authorities, the time factor is governed by the frequency of ceremonies arranged by individual local government authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Precise statistics of this kind are not maintained by my Department. However the following statistics on the total number of visitor applications refused in (a) Greece, (b) Italy, (c) Turkey, (d) United Kingdom, (e) United States of America for the period 1 January 1975 to 30 September 1979 and for (f) Cyprus for the period 1 January 1978 to 30 September 1979 may be of assistance. Detailed statistics are not available for Cyprus for the years 1975, 1976 and 1977. (It should be noted that the figures are for applications which in a small proportion of cases include more than one person.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The arrangements which came into force on 1 September, 1979, related to the issue of return endorsements after that date. The changes are not retrospective. 
Yes, on application, if the person concerned is a bona fide resident of Australia or genuinely intends taking up permanent residence during the validity of the visa. 
See (2). 
(a) and (b) Authorities to return to Australia issued prior to 1 September 1979 and return endorsements issued subsequently are generally valid for up to three years. 
A 'permanent residence' visa has no force or effect after entry to Australia has been made. Authority to return to Australia must be sought, preferably before going overseas and, if granted, the person concerned should ensure that he or she returns to Australia before the expiry of the return authority in his or her passport. 
The period of residence in Australia is one of the criteria. In special circumstances- each such case is considered separately- the aggregation of periods of residence may be taken into account. 
Persons holding visas and return endorsements should be aware of the validity of the authority for their entry or return to Australia as this is shown in their passports. Officers representing the Department overseas are briefed on this and other policies and procedures on an on-going basis. 
