 Mr Speaker,  I address my question- 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. As the Minister has suggested to a number of organisations within my electorate that the proposals for expressway development in the area may well be abandoned after reconsideration of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969, does the Minister suggest that the north-western distributor will not be required even if the Government proceeds with its disastrous Galston airport proposal or does the Minister have in mind some other alternative road proposal for access to the Galston area? 

 Mr -UREN- It is known that the Minister for Transport and I are concerned about freeways in inner city areas. I have expressed opposition to the north-western distributor over a number of years and even in government I have not changed my mind. However it will be a matter for the Government to decide. Regarding the study of the Galston area, preliminary suggestions have been made already concerning where the access could be made to Galston without using the northwest freeway. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. With reference to the proposed amalgamation of the Australian Capital Territory Police, the Commonwealth Police Force and other law enforcement bodies, will members of the Australian Capital Territory Police be interrupted in the performance of their present duties? Will members of the Australian Capital Territory Police enjoy the same promotional, labour and allied conditions as they do at present? Will members of the Australian Capital Territory Police be subject to transfer throughout the States and/or territories of Australia? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
As the scheme for the provision of free milk for school children will be modified from 1 January 1974 to apply only to children of specific community schools or others selected on a needs basis to be agreed with State health authorities, (a) what are the terms and conditions necessary for a school to demonstrate a need, (b) what are the terms and conditions for a school to be classified as a specific community school, (c) has the Government received applications from schools to be classified as (i) a needy school or (ii) a specific community school; if so, (A) how many schools have applied in each category and (B) what are the names and addresses of schools that have so applied and (d) what are the names and addresses of the schools that have been approved as (i) specific community schools or (ii) having satisfied the needs test. 
Br Everingham - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance with the Government's announcement that the modified school milk scheme would apply to schools on a basis to be agreed with the State health authorities, a meeting of Australian Health Ministers was held in Canberra on 28 September 1973. Although criteria for supply under the modified scheme were not finally determined at the meeting, I indicated my willingness to present the submissions and views of the States to Cabinet for consideration. 
These submissions are at present awaited. No action has been taken to invite applications from schools, nor have approvals been given for the supply of milk on a 'needs' or a 'specific community' basis. 
I rise to address the Committee on the estimates of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It is a new department and the estimates cover many matters that have not previously been dealt with under a single heading. During the Parramatta by-election a great deal of emphasis was placed upon the actions of this Government which would bring benefit to people living in the western suburbs of Sydney. I would agree that the people residing in these areas are entitled to benefits and improvements in their life style. Many statements made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  have signified the importance of this Department in bringing about such a change. The Minister has suggested in all seriousness that the growing of trees would aid in bringing about fundamental changes in these areas, and I would agree that if the Department of Urban and Regional Development had the resources and constitutional competence this would bring it about. 
The estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development cover expenditure in a number of areas. The appropriation under the sewerage agreements of 1973 will be most significant to my electorate if the moneys offered to New South Wales are spent in this local area. Similarly, Parramatta with its special buildings of historic importance may well derive benefits as a result of expenditure of funds on special items of interest to the national estate. I trust that  Mr Justice  Hope's committee will take note of the numerous buildings in Parramatta, some of which have been acquired by the 
National Trust and others which ought to be preserved. The committee should deliberate quickly so that funds can be made available in order that those properties affected by special use zonings - which are now being used to aid in the acquisition of historical buildings and adjacent land - may be evaluated fully and acquired at a fair market price. I draw to the attention of the Committee the report entitled 'The National Estate - Principles and Policies, Submission to the Task Force', and particularly the section which deals with this matter to which I have referred. Paragraph (vi) (a) under 'Recommendations' states: 
Zoning policies should be formulated to take account of those buildings and lands which are considered to be of importance or interest. 
Without immediate action being taken to make funds available and to evaluate properties that will be affected, homes of people could be affected by those types of zonings. People could suffer. They may not achieve aworthwhile price for their properties and, in fact, they may be hampered by these types of zoning which will restrict their ability to be able to deal with their properties as other people might be able to deal with theirs. For Parramatta, the item in these estimates which is most significant is the expenditure anticipated through the Cities Commission. In a most attractively produced document dated 30 June and headed 'Report to the Australian Government, a recommended New Cities Program for the Period 1973-78', matters relating to urban and regional development for a period of 5 years are discussed. It is easy, of course, to see where a substantial sum of money is being spent - in the production of this most elaborate document. 
The document deals with the history of the Cities Commission and it attempts, in part, to justify its existence. It evaluates the needs of an urban community and highlights some of its shortcomings. It deals with matters of pollution, economic growth and sewerage. Although my electorate was singled out for detailed examination some months ago and former Commonwealth Governments were blamed for deficiencies resulting from past unplanned growth, the report of the Cities Commission ignores Parramatta and the western suburbs. It speaks of metropolitan growth centres. It discusses in detail Campbelltown and Geelong rather than Parramatta and its environs. Surely a growth centre is not just outer metropolitan subdivisions. The Cities Commission must deal with areas which are being singled out for growth and which are growing. 
The report of the Cities Commission, in chapter 5 headed 'Recommendations for Action', sub-heading 'Sydney', states:   . . the Commission sought to discover what steps should be taken immediately to alleviate existing problems and to formulate the most satisfactory foundations of a policy which could cater for inevitable future growth. 
It examines, in part, Holsworthy, Campbelltown and Gosford-Wyong. It is disappointing to the electors of Parramatta - and no doubt to the electors of adjoining electorates - that the western suburbs and the north-western suburbs do not warrant treatment in considering future growth centres in the city of Sydney. Another related matter is the report of the Department on regions of local government areas to be used by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in approving aid to local government councils. This report is, of course, based upon the philosophy of the Government. In paragraph 35 that policy is spelt out. It states:   . . a formal regionalisation of cities based on a range of socio-economic characteristics and the supply of public facilities will therefore provide a framework in which the Government can pursue its equalisation objectives. 
The regionalisation appears to be seen by this Government as a means whereby it can achieve its objectives of bringing about an egalitarian society. Unfortunately, these objectives do not bring about equality but rather debase the quality of life and bring down people and their environment to the lowest common denominator. 
I should perhaps digress a little here to note that there is a proposal for the siting of an airport at Galston. As honourable members would no doubt be aware, this area, which is a little to the north of my electorate of Parramatta, is typical of this objective of reducing areas of particular beauty and charm to the lowest common denominator. No doubt this proposal will not proceed. The problems of building an airport in Galston over a rough and rocky terrain, requiring the filling of valleys and the levelling of hills, will be far too high a cost for the people of Australia to pay. It is significant to note the statement only last week of the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  in which he indicated continuing expenditure on Sydney's Kingsford-Smith Airport. I think that this confirms the Government's only practical objective - that of maintaining and extending Sydney's present international airport to meet future needs. 
The plotting of regions for local government organisations seems to be an important part of the Government's strategy. It is proposed that Parramatta will form part of a region including Auburn, Balkham Hills, Blue Mountains, Colo, Fairfield, Holyroyd, Parramatta, Penrith and Windsor. I am surprised at the nature of this region. There is little community of interest between Colo and Auburn or between the Blue Mountains and Fairfield. One might be tempted to suggest that the regions proposed for the city of Sydney have as much community of interest within each region as the Minister would have achieved if he has cut the city up as he would cut an orange into quarters. I would concede that for specific projects a form of regionalisation can be desirable. 
One matter that is of concern to me and my electorate is the Parramatta River. There is an urgent need for what I would call a beautification program. Much work has been done by the New South Wales State Government and the Department of Health to raise the quality of the water flowing down the river, and certainly industrial pollutants are being restricted. Many factories and plants have installed machinery and extensive filters to ensure that industrial wastes are now removed from any water finding its way into the river - I think that the action of the Department of Health in this area deserves commendation - but the river itself is still ugly. Green weed may be growing and mangroves may be regenerating, but car bodies and rubbish still litter its edges. I have proposed, and will do so again, that a Parramatta River commission be formed. The region of councils bordering the river should be aided with finance and in appointing rangers who could patrol the river. Councils could in concert act to acquire land for riverside parks and bring about, along the whole of the river, a program of beautification which is sorely needed. Such a program could not be envisaged under the form of strict regionalisation proposed, and grants for this purpose could not be contemplated. Yet it is a new and urgent need which must be met by governments. 
There are other areas in which the Federal Government can act within the limits of its own power to assist in meeting the demands of the western suburbs. Some of my electors, and people from surrounding areas who use the Kingsford-Smith Airport, demand that consideration be given to the use of helicopters from Parramatta to reach the Sydney Airport. With the sort of development that the Minister has spoken of on a number of occasions for Parramatta, the demand for this sort of service will increase. It seems to me that a heliport could easily be established along the river and that it would certainly enable businessmen and the prospective influx of senior public servants to move more efficiently between Parramatta, Sydney and other Australian capital cities. 
I believe that one of the basic differences between the Opposition and the Government in the area of urban development is the Government's desire to impose its own ideas on what is essentially local development and to bring about uniformity. Galston, of course, is an example of the sort of mistake that can be made when ministers and members of other State parliaments have to make a decision for another city. All too often the important environmental consequences are overlooked. Throughout Australia today there is a feeling of frustration - which is certainly evident in the electorate of Parramatta - on the part of people and organisations who are endeavouring to maintain and improve the quality of life within their neighbourhood. 
There are many laws, both State and Commonwealth, which can be of assistance and can bring about a review of decisions taken at a local government or State level but the methods of obtaining the review are not known and are rarely considered by these organisations. The legal profession, as a general rule, is not competent, by way of training, to advise on these matters. I believe the time is right for us now to embark upon a program of teaching neighbourhood law in our universities so that young lawyers can be aware of the laws dealing with and relating to the environment, laws relating to the administration of local government, approval of developments and the means of achieving a review of decisions when taken without thought to local opinion. The sorts of frustrations which lead people to think of green bans and the like, which are so abhorrent to most Australian people, highlight the need for adequate teaching in this area. Already at the University of Sydney the students themselves are calling for the introduction in their courses of the teaching of environmental laws, or as 
I would prefer to call them, neighbourhood laws. Without prompting the students are giving consideration to the drafting of legislation which can be helpful in these areas. 
I was pleased to be able to read an article by Gwilym Davies published in the Australian National University 'News' of July 1973. The article deals with environmental resources law and it brings together bits and pieces. The article goes along in the same direction. Towards the end of that article there is a comment which I would like to quote. It reads: 
First, there is no doubt that environmental law, both statutory and common law, will come to be of increasing importance to legal practitioners. The statute law will certainly proliferate thus making it essential that practitioners are aware of its details as well as its basic provisions and of the workings of the administrative machinery lying behind it. They will need this knowledge whether they are acting for industry, conservation groups are even ordinary individuals seemingly doing no more than going about their everyday business. Environmental legislation will percolate through to all levels. 
There has been a course in environmental resources law established at the Australian National University. I think this type of teaching has to be more broadly based right through our universities so that people can get support from the legal profession to assist them in meeting the demands of protecting their environment and protecting the type of locality in which they live and to ensure that the good things about our life are aided. There is a need within our universities to encourage students to think about these areas in a progressive way to assist in development of new law rather than to think simply in terms of the interpretation of the present law. With encouragement by the honourable members of this Parliament of community involvement rather than the imposition of our own views to meet genuine pressures and frustrations that exist within our electorates, this Parliament might be able to get down to the matters of real national importance which demand our attention. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who, in comments in this House today, mentioned the failure of the immigration programs of past governments to further decentralisation policies. Will the Minister assure this House that any scheme for decentralisation and the establishment of growth centres will not involve compulsion on migrants to settle only in country growth centres? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Robert  Hawke, been an embarrassment to this country in presuming to undertake discussions between Israel and the Soviet Union as a sort of roving, self-appointed diplomat? Has not this embarrassment been greater because of the Government's even-handed policy in this dispute? Can the Prime Minister assure this House that  Mr Hawke  has not compromised Australia's diplomacy by his known sympathies? 
I address my question to the Minister for Defence. In view of the importance of the provision in the future of additional national parks, and the promises made by the previous Government that rationalisation of land presently used for defence purposes on the Sydney Harbour foreshores would permit the granting of that land to form part of the Sydney foreshores national park, will the Minister assure the House that this proposed plan is not being shelved, that the land will be made available on just terms and that the proposed national park will not be jeopardised by the use of the proposal as a bargaining point with the New South Wales Government on other matters? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
As section 22 (1) of the Repatriation Act (No. 3) 1973 gives effect to the Budget promise to provide and repair artificial limbs at Repatriation expense for persons other than ex-servicemen and their dependants, and as such provision is to be made by regulation, when will these regulations be formulated in order that handicapped persons requiring such attention may properly obtain it. 
I support the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  This Bill is an important one. In general terms, all members of this Parliament believe that it seeks to achieve desirable objectives. I acknowledge the importance of the co-operation of the States in undertaking this important task. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who preceded me, skated over the problems created by the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to this piece of legislation. Clearly the words used by the Prime Minister implied - in fact, stated clearly - that the Government would make available grants for this purpose. The meaning of these words cannot be skated over or ignored by the suggestions made by the honourable member for Shortland. 

 His argument that there were advantages in loans may well be correct. But the promise was clearly made. I find it difficult to separate the responsibility for providing sewerage services from the responsibility that the governments have for providing facilities for transport, Post Office services and the like. For this reason, I also find it difficult to support arguments that suggest that governments should take over responsibility for loan debts of transport authorities and should separate postal authorities and finance them in some way different from the manner in which they are financed at the moment and yet suggest that responsibility for sewerage services ought to be dealt with by loan and not by way of grant. The problems that the honourable member for Shortland mentioned in relation to his electorate are applicable not only to that area. They are, I believe, universal, even in many established cities. 
The second reading speech made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in introducing this Bill raises a number of very interesting matters. The Minister mentioned that interest would be payable on the loans made by the Commonwealth Government to the States. He mentioned specifically that the interest rates would be the long term bond rate. I believe that that rate will be approximately 8.5 per cent. This rate of interest, I understand, because of the present economic situation is considerably higher than the States have had to pay previously. There is no provision for the interest payable to be reduced if in the future the long term bond rate falls. So, for the duration of the loans which are made in this financial year, State government instrumentalities will be paying considerably more than they otherwise would have been paying in interest and much of this will be money which will be paid back to the Commonwealth Government only in respect of money advanced from Consolidated Revenue. In fact clause 4 of the Bill makes it clear that the Government can grant moneys for this purpose out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund. Clause 7 provides that the Treasurer may authorise the payment back to Consolidated Revenue out of a fund at a later date. But the clause provides that the Treasurer may only do that. So in fact this can be a grant or in fact a loan from Consolidated Revenue which is repayable to Consolidated Revenue. This means that it is a grant or a loan from the Commonwealth in terms of what a loan is with interest, whereas in fact the money could be coming simply out of the taxation fund and not raised by way of loan itself. This, I believe, is unfortunate. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when speaking in the second reading debate on this Bill made reference to the problems of the States and local government instrumentalities as regard loan funds. He pointed out that the volume of loans received by them which are repayable has been increasing considerably whereas the Commonwealth's debt has been decreasing. Yet we find that in this important area there is now to be increased responsibilities for loan repayments on local government instrumentalities. The Commonwealth simply will be making the money payable from its own Consolidated Revenue and will not have to raise the money itself. The debts of local government instrumentalities will continue to expand. I emphasise again that this is a situation about which the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition made a clear and unequivocal promise that local government instrumentalities would receive grants. 
Later on in his second reading speech the Minister mentioned that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is ultimately responsible for formulating a national sewerage program and that it has enlisted the assistance of the Cities Commission. Clearly the delegation of responsibility for the supply of treatment works is urgent. I would support these undertakings. I believe that it is important for the Commonwealth to assist in establishing treatment works. I know that a large amount of funds is required for these undertakings. The States have been confronted with many difficulties in their efforts to raise the necessary funds to build these works. I would urge the Minister to consider taking the ultimate responsibility and formulating a national sewerage program because I do not believe that local organisations or local instrumentalities at this stage have the degree of knowledge or the finance to undertake the necessary research to find out whether it is possible to build, for instance, sufficient facilities to pump sewage from the Sydney metropolitan area over the mountains. Such a project would enable sewage farms to be established, as they have been overseas, where the sewage can be used to economic advantage. 
At the moment we are spending a considerable sum of money on the erection of sewage treatment works on the seaside. This means that we will continue to push sewage towards the seaside where it will ultimately be emptied into the sea. We are spending money on works which are designed to continue this operation. However, having in mind the expansion that is taking place in the outlying suburbs of Sydney, the satellite cities that are being established and so on it could well be more economic in the long term to consider proposals to pump the effluent over the mountains and for it to be treated in a way which will make it economically more useful to the country in the long term. I believe that agriculture and irrigation farming and so on in areas to the west of Sydney would be advantaged if such a proposal was put into effect. 
The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the sewerage program being integrated with policies and programs of land commissions, housing, urban and public transport, area improvement programs and growth centres. We have not seen an increase in the backlog of sewerage connections in Sydney for some time. This has been because the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board has been able to require developers of land, by way of particular sections in its enabling legislation, to provide for sewerage and the installation of expensive sewerage equipment, amplification and reticulation within the area that is being developed. In short, these developers have been required to provide the service. Because of this the Beard does not have to provide the service itself. As a result of this legislative requirement there has not been an increase for some time in the number of properties that are unsewered in Sydney. I want the Minister to tell me whether he envisages that the Commonwealth Government, he or the people responsible for the policy planning in his own Department will be relieving developers of that cost. I ask this because the Minister has spoken about the sewerage program being integrated with the Cities Commission, area improvement programs and growth centres. Clearly if the Federal Government undertook this responsibility it would hold one of the keys to a substantial reduction in the cost of developing land. I think that all members of this House would like to know if that is what is envisaged. 
The Prime Minister in his election policy speech spoke of the sewerage backlog being overcome by 1978 which, of course, is only 5 years away. No mention was made of this in the Minister's speech although in an answer to a question somewhat earlier asked by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  he did mention this. I remind the honourable member for Shortland that the Government is making a fairly small start at the moment if this problem is to be solved within a 5-year program. The Minister has not made clear whether the backlog will be taken over in the time promised by the Prime Minister. I think that I ought to read to the House what the Minister said when answering the question from the honourable member for Perth to which I have referred. He stated: 
We will try to meet the target date of 1978 set by the Prime Minister but the State authorities have agreed - 
And it appears to me at least that they are going to be blamed for this - that probably it will take until 1980 or the early 1980s to achieve our aim because of pressure of resources, both man and materials. 
Whilst that may very well be so, there has been a clear retraction of the promise that was made. 
I would like to mention two other matters briefly because I have undertaken to shorten my contribution on this legislation. The Parramatta area has been badly served in regard to sewerage facilities in the past because development took place there some time ago. The result is that many areas still remain unsewered. The failure to meet this problem - and I am not blaming necessarily the Federal Government or the New South Wales State Government - has meant that the Parramatta River has become more polluted. Tests on bacteria found in the River after storms in the area have indicated that the headwaters of the River are substantially polluted because the areas to the west of Parramatta are not sewered. This has created very many problems in relation to the use of the River as a recreation area. The level of pollution has meant also that the Parramatta River cannot be used as rivers should be used. Because of the composition and nature of the soil in areas like North Rocks one finds that homes built in some areas have experienced problems. Relief drains amounting almost to moats have had to be built around 1 1 new homes in Parklea Place, for instance to carry away the sewage seeping down from the septic tanks of the homes above them. This seepage became evident when the foundations for the houses were being dug. Areas like this, where the soil is particularly bad, have a very real problem that cannot be overcome because one cannot simply make other people disconnect their septic tanks and put on a tanker service to dispose of the effluent. 
There is only one other minor problem which I would like to raise with the Minister and it relates to the agreement itself. Clause 6 of the Bill provides that the sewerage works for the urban areas of Sydney, Wollongong, Newcastle and so on are to be dealt with by the agreement, and then it provides as follows: 
An urban centre referred to in sub-clause (1) of this clause is the area within that centre as defined by the Commonwealth Statistician for the purposes cf the 1971 Australian Census but may also include, for the purposes of the operation of the relevant provisions of this agreement, areas adjacent or proximate to that area that are included in the area to which sewerage works included In the approved program so extend. 
It seems strange to me that, with sewerage authorities such as the Hunter District Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board that cover particular areas, the Bill refers specifically to other areas which bear no relationship to the areas covered by the actual authorities. I wonder why the agreement does not apply to sewerage works within particular areas of those authorities rather than to some other area related to the Australian Census. No doubt this will cause a great deal of difficulty for those boards in knowing whether their works are within the area and come within the ambit of this agreement. I wonder why the agreement was drawn in this particular way. Apart from these matters that I have raised I believe that sewerage is an important problem and I commend the Government for having undertaken this legislation. But I am critical of it for having undertaken it not by way of grant, as was promised, but by way of loan, which certainly was not promised. 
I wish to address the House in relation to a most important and pressing matter concerning my electorate and a number of other electorates in the Sydney area. The problem concerns the strike or the black ban imposed by mail sorters at the Sydney Mail Exchange. The black ban is one that has banned the Parramatta Post Office and the post offices at Strathfield, Potts Point, Arncliffe, Annandale, Leichhardt and a regional centre at Artarmon from receiving mail sorted at the Sydney Mail Exchange. To date, this black ban has continued for some 5 days. I understand that mail is not being collected at all from the Parramatta Post Office and that to date some 150 bags of mail have accumulated in that Post Office. This is causing considerable dislocation in the major commercial area of Parramatta about which we hear so much in this place. It is creating problems in the areas of banking and pensions, and even in my own electoral office I have not received mail for some 5 days. 
No, I do not bank in Parramatta at the moment but I assume the cheque did arrive at my city bank. I might say that apparently this is not a demarcation dispute as it appears that the matter is within one particular union and it does appear to be a union black ban designed to eliminate efficiencies that have already been created in the Post Office. This action by certain vested interests within the Sydney Mail Exchange is designed to entrench the position of the employees of this particular union in the Sydney Mail Exchange. 
I think it is worth saying that the Parramatta Post Office has sorted mail for a considerable period of time. In fact, I understand that that Post Office has sorted mail locally ever since the Post Office was built. But some 7 months ago that Post Office was created as a community mail sorting Post Office as part of a network that was established throughout the Sydney metropolitan region and I am informed that is was thought that the regional areas or the community mail post offices in the western area and other areas would fail in their mail sorting activities during the Christmas period when the load would be exceedingly heavy and that we would revert to the system which existed prior to that. Apparently during the Christmas period the mail was very effectively distributed and this caused an efficient distribution of mail throughout Sydney. 
Certain allegations have been made by the unionists involved at the Sydney Mail Exchange which concerned, firstly, a complaint that the work practices in the banned zone were not up to the normal post office standards. That allegation was made a week ago. More recently it has been reported that the representatives of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union have suggested that their members at the suburban centres were doing work and taking in work that they were not qualified to do. In relation to the first allegation, that the post offices within the banned zone were not conforming to the normal standards, I would be somewhat surprised to find that this was true because the post office facilities, particularly in Parramatta, are of a very high standard and there appears to be an excellent relationship within the staff which has caused the very efficient handling of mail. Also, the facilities themselves were initially approved by the union. 
In relation to the second allegation which concerns the qualifications of the staff, it is worth noting that at Parramatta, 2 post officers are of a grade 4 standard and have a total of S3 years experience in sorting mail. Nine other post officers who sort mail at Parramatta are of a grade 4 standard and have had a total of 81 years experience in sorting mail. There are only 2 other officers who participate in the sorting activities. One is a trainee and I am informed that the other is ready to sit for the barrier examination which all the others have already fulfilled. It appears that the people at Parramatta and the people in these other 6 areas are being used as a tool by the unionists at the Sydney Mail Exchange to bring about, a less efficient system, to break a system that is working efficiently and which has worked successfully for some 7 months. I think this is a very serious matter. It is only in the last 2 weeks that the union officers concerned have complained about this. It seems to me that there is a need for the Government to intervene strongly in this area to get the mails moving in areas such as Parramatta and the other areas that I mentioned and to ensure that people are not put to such dislocation as has occurred as a result of these particular events simply because the unions object to a more efficient system of working within the Post Office. 
 I wish to raise a number of matters that relate to the Western Suburbs of Sydney - in particular to the area improvement program for the western region that was announced recently and elaborated on by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  In particular I wish to relate my remarks to the Parramatta River and the quite apparent way in which the necessary tasks of improving the Parramatta River have been ignored in the area improvement program for the western region. It is quite clear that any program of development for this area must involve a study and an understanding of this most important waterway, which crosses from the eastern shores of Sydney to the extremities of the Western Suburbs. 
In the program that has been announced there is provision for some $5m to be expended. In January 1974 the Minister announced that moneys would be allocated for cleaning Duck Creek, some $30,000, and for repairing the sea wall on the Parramatta River, some $20,000. On 7 March the Minister issued a statement which was embargoed until 10 March and which indicated that a further $15,000 would be allocated to the Duck Creek project, through the Auburn Council, for stone work, that a further $10,000 would be allocated to the Parramatta Council for foreshore work and that another $10,000 would be allocated to the Parramatta Council for the Duck Creek area and for surveying. A total of $55,000 has been allocated for works associated with Duck Creek as compared with the sum of $30,000 that has been allocated for works associated with the Parramatta River. If one includes the gardens that are to be built around the Duck Creek area in the Auburn Municipality another $225,000 has to be added in the first grant. It is quite apparent that, notwithstanding the fact that these large sums of money are being spent in that area, nothing is being allocated towards the improvement of the Parramatta River as an important waterway. 
When I made my maiden speech in the House I mentioned the importance of the Parramatta River in that area and I made reference to the establishment of a Parramatta River commission which I believe would be a desirable way of co-ordinating the activities that ought to occur along the river. I proposed on that occasion, as I had on previous occasions, that a Parramatta River commission be formed. I suggested that regional councils bordering the river be aided with finance in appointing rangers who could patrol the river and that councils should act in concert to acquire land for riverside parks. I said that this should be done along the whole of the river. Such a program of beautification and other activities is sorely needed. 
I indicated that the program of regionalisation which we are having foisted upon us was not a program which would enable the Parramatta River to be dealt with adequately. There is a certain lack of purpose in what is being done in the western region. I would like to demonstrate to honourable members some of the activities which could be undertaken if there were such an organisation as a Parramatta River commission involving the State Government, local councils and a Federal Department. It could undertake cleaning of the river, including dredging. It could build embankments from the silt and so on that is taken from the River. It would be able to supervise the use of the river and patrol it to ensure that the river is not dealt with in a harmful way by people who pollute it or by people who dump car bodies into it. It would be able to organise the removal of hyacinths which become a very severe problem after storms. It is a problem that is quite evident to anybody who has seen the river recently after the rather minor flooding that has occurred. 
This view that there ought to be such an overriding commission is supported very strongly by other local members and by the local chamber of commerce but no efforts have been made to date to bring about such a proposal. It is my belief that if we are to expend these large sums of money in the western region we need to have such a coordinating body. The river is an integral part of the western suburbs. Large sums of money are spent on roads. In fact, under the area improvement program, notwithstanding the aversion of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to road programs, large sums of money have been allocated for bridges, roads and other constructions associated with road traffic in the western suburbs. But no money has been allocated for water transport. A hovermarine has been established. At the moment, this vessel is using wharves at Gladesville and Meadowbank. It is being supported very strongly by the State Liberal Party member for Yaralla,  Mr Lerryn  Mutton. It is a rapid transit system that is working very effectively in that area. One method by which the operation of the hovermarine could be extended to areas.- such as Ermington and Rydalmere which presently lack suitable transport facilities would be for the Department of Defence to make available wharf facilities that it has adjacent to the Silverwater Bridge at Ermington. The task of making available such a wharf to serve the public would be very small. It would merely require the removal of the present fencing and the erection of a cyclone fence, similar to that which is already there, some 30 feet back from the water to allow public access to the wharf. This hovermarine could very easily serve the western suburbs and link them with the city without the vast expense that is necessary to bring road transport, rapid rail transport and so on to that area. The people who are associated with the hovermarine and introduced it on the service have said that if loan moneys could be made available to them they would be quite prepared to embark upon the purchase of additional ferries to serve this area. It seems to me that the cost of acquiring additional marine craft of this sort would be far less than the cost of expanding the road systems in the western suburbs and, although probably the expansion of some of these road systems is necessary, the provision of additional marine craft on the Parramatta River would diminish the demand that is placed upon the present road systems. Wider use of the Parramatta River is necessary. 
I believe that loan moneys could be made available through other government instrumentalities. I noticed that in the Speech delivered by  Her  Majecty it was suggested that the activities of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation were to be extended in order to ensure loans which are provided for tourist facilities. It seems to me that there would be no objection to extending the concept of a government loan guaranteeing body to cover loans for purposes such as acquiring hovermarine for this important area. If this question is not covered in the proposals that the Minister has received, there is a need for him to consider gingering up the councils 'and asking them whether they will submit proposals for the building of a wharf - say, near Gasworks Bridge - in order to provide hovermarine facilities closer to Parramatta itself. These matters are very important. 
In the few moments remaining to me I should like to mention a couple of other small matters that have arisen in the administration of these grants. Quite clearly, there has been a number of irregularities in the grants that have been made. To date we have seen that the Blue Mountains City Council has received a promise of a grant of $140,000 with which to build a regional shopping centre. We see in the new grants that the earlier grant has been removed and allocated for some other purpose. The Council itself was concerned that money would be promised and then withdrawn. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  if only because he attempted to perpetuate an illusion that we have seen dragged through this House to date when he referred to the fact that this was the Queen's Speech and attempted to imply that it was the Speech of  Her  Majesty and not the Speech written for her by the Government. This is something that should not have to be emphasised, but I make this introduction because I wish to draw attention to a number of sins of omission and sins of commission that are mentioned in this Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty for the Government. 
The major sin of omission since this Government came into office has been in relation to the most important question of inflation. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  demonstrates clearly the problem that has occurred since the former Government lost office. That amendment includes the words:   the House of Representatives is of the opinion and regrets that your Majesty was not informed by the Government of the true position in Australia in that it has: 
created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it; 
caused uncertainty and in its management of the economy is creating social inequalities; 
I think it was somewhat damning of the Government that the Leader of the Opposition was able to speak yesterday and to read in full a quotation from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which indicated that he, at least, was aware of the problems that inflation creates. If I paraphrase what he said, it is not because I wish to quote him out of context. He mentioned the important factor of altering the distribution of income in an arbitrary and often vicious way. He mentioned that inflation robs people by reducing the purchasing power of their savings, distorts resource allocation and encourages a rush into supposedly inflation-proof real assets such as land or housing. The Prime Minister said that inflation is anathema to us all. In that respect I agree with him, as I am certain would every responsible member of this Parliament, because inflation is a real problem that causes a great deal of dislocation in the community. I was, therefore, most distressed yesterday to hear the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the person who is responsible for the administration of our economy, attempt to deny that inflation at a rate of 14 per cent, as we all acknowledge we have today, is not intolerable. In answer to a question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  the Treasurer, at page 249 of Hansard, is reported as having said: 
But I do not think that a country is made or broken whether the rate is 14 ner cent rather than 12 per cent. 
He went on to say: 
I am asked what is an intolerable rate of inflation. All I suggest is that we will survive in Australia if the rate is 14 per cent, 12 per cent, 10 per cent or less, and we will survive if, for any unfortunate causes, the rate goes beyond those figures. But there is a responsibility upon us to see that we do our best to look after those who are adversely affected by whatever rate prevails. 
I draw attention to that quotation because I thought yesterday that I was going to have my first interjection recorded in Hansard when the Treasurer looked like he was almost going to answer my comment: 'What about the superannuitants?' Since I have been in this Parliament, and admittedly it has been only a short while, I have noticed that the Government continues to ignore the plight of superannuitants when it thinks of people who suffer hardship as a result of inflation. I believe that these responsible people who have provided for themselves and who have participated in schemes which are designed to assist them in their old age deserve a special place in our society and that they should not be robbed by the action of a government that allows inflation to career on at a far higher rate than we have seen before or at least in some 20 years. 
It is pertinent to ask: Who is hurt by inflation? Of course, the pensioners are hurt. To some degree the Government tries to compensate for this, although a real examination of the figures at this time demonstrates that, although in actual money terms the amounts paid to pensioners are somewhat higher, in percentage terms the amounts given do no more than reimburse pensioners by the amount they are robbed by price increases. Students are affected, yet a large number of students have been deprived of the advantage that at least existed under the old scheme of Commonwealth scholarships when all fees were paid. Many students are now required to pay fees that they were not required to pay before. Those who were fortunate enough to live on a living allowance are not seeing those allowances increased to enable them to live on a day to day basis, hand to mouth, and to maintain themselves in universities and colleges of advanced education. Also affected are many who remain at school. The amounts that are paid to their parents to maintain them at home are not increased on a regular basis; nor do we see the Government rushing in, when we have this high rate of inflation, to compensate them. Young people who have not yet been able to save for a home are disadvantaged because the time that it takes them to put away the amount that is necessary to start off on this track is extended further, and they suffer. It is not just the superannuitants who suffer; it is many. Simply to say 'We are raising pensions' when we are talking about the hardships people suffer as a result of inflation is not good enough because many more people than pensioners are dislocated. It is a very important issue in this community today. 
The Government, when it deals with its own superannuation funds, makes no mention of, say, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the people who have contributed to that. Because the fund happens to be reasonably prosperous no answer is given to those people who have participated to indicate that they will be able to share in that little amount of excess that has accumulated. So personnel in the Public Service are being robbed in that direction although the Government is trying to get out of the embarrassing situation it is in with other Commonwealth public servants, a situation it created by the uncertainty that it allowed to exist when its own Commonwealth Superannuation Fund had a surplus available for distribution. 
The Government's own statistics clearly demonstrate the problems that we have in this country. The various round-up documents on economic statistics produced by the Australian Government Publishing Service for the Treasury have, since I have been receiving them, indicated in their summary page the main problems that we are facing and each of them has dealt with matters of industrial dispute which have affected output and caused shortages of goods. We only need look at the document of March 1974 to see the statement that available data indicates that spending remains buoyant despite widespread shortages of goods and materials. Each paragraph in the documents I have looked at states that prices and wages continue to increase rapidly. This is unfortunately the fact of life. The Government documents confirm it. 
The Government has now been some 16 months in office, and the steps it has taken, which it said were designed to control inflation have failed abysmally. It cannot blame the Opposition for this. It cannot blame us for the monetary and fiscal steps, and even tariff steps, that have failed to control inflation. It cannot blame us for increased Government expenditure or for the increase in the size of the Public Service. It cannot blame us for its own failure to act to restrain wages. I do not suppose it can even blame us for its representations before the tribunals that inquire into wage and salary increases which encourage such tribunals to increase wages. It cannot blame us for the fact that there is a lack of competition, labour shortages and not a sufficient work force available to bring about real competition. We see an extravagance of spending - many trips by Ministers and many extra people going on these trips. We see the Government taking over construction of a pipeline that could have been built by private enterprise. This takes away the ability of the Government to deal with the really important problems - the social service matters and questions of defence. In my opinion these are far more important. 
We have seen it recorded in figures that not- - withstanding inflation the wage earner has not suffered. Wages are up some 21.3 per cent, yet company earnings are up only 15.9 per cent. I think these matters are relevant because they demonstrate the extent to which a redistribution of income is being brought about and the fallacy we hear when the Government steps in to protect, allegedly, wage and salary earners as against the vicious monopolies that we are supposed to have in the country and the vicious companies and the people who are so necessary in bringing to bear enterprise and effort and who bring about the larger cake in which we all try to share. I think it is very important to note the extent to which taxation is ripping away from people the willingness to go out and work hard and contribute to the prosperity of this country. Wherever I go, whether it is among young people, older people, workers or entrepreneurs, people complain about the extent to which income tax obligations are causing them to consider whether they should go on working as hard as they have, whether they should suffer the risks of a coronary just for the sake of earning money that they will put into the pockets of the Government. This is what has been happening. 
The suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition that we reduce income taxes by some $600m, which would be only a small part of the extra income that is being given to the Government this year has been laughed at. Yet I believe that unless we have that form of distribution, that form of return to the people who are earning the income - income that is justly theirs - there will be nobody left to go out and work even to pay our own salaries, because everybody will want to be on the dole. Everybody will wish to live on some form of social services, but it must be recognised that social services cannot be collected and distributed unless somebody is working to gather the money. It is interesting that in the Queen's Speeh confirmation was at least given that the Government intends to continue its program for ending the means test. I for one was relieved to see that that promise was there, although one could be forgiven for doubting whether the Government intended to proceed with the promise at all, having regard to the many newspaper articles that I have seen in the last week which have indicated that the Government is having second thoughts about this matter. I hope that the Government intends to honour the promise that was made in the Speech that the Government wrote for Her Majesty. 
I indicated that there have been a number of articles on this matter, and the Government spokesman who indicated some reticence was the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  himself. 
Last week; although I have a copy of what he said in front of me, it does not bear the date. However, I will find out for the honourable member. The other matter that is of particular importance to me is housing, because I come from an electorate where there is a great deal of housing activity. This matter was debated in the House today. We have heard the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  speak about his 3  Ms -  manpower, materials and money - when he tries to demonstrate to the Australian people that he is grappling with this real problem of housing and when he tries to excuse his own abysmal failures. In the few minutes remaining to me I will draw attention to some of the matters that indicate quite clearly the Government's failure in this area. These matters have come to my attention in the few short days since this Parliament resumed, since  Her  Majesty's Speech was read to the Parliament. Only one statement in the Speech dealt with the question of housing - this most important problem with which the Minister has indicated he is dealing - and that statement was: 
Legislation will be introduced for a limited tax deductibility for home mortgage interest payments for home owners. 
If one looked at the Press statements that I have seen from time to time one could be forgiven for believing that a great deal more can be done. But we do not see that set out in the program which the Government intends to follow. We hear a great deal of huffing and puffing from the Minister as he tries to excuse his own failures and suggests, on occasions, that he has in mind providing nodeposit home loans. I did not see reference to this matter in Her Majesty's Speech, although the Minister said that this would be done by extending the activities of the Government's Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. There was no statement in the Speech which indicated that a general household insurance scheme would be introduced. There was no indication that legislation would be introduced in order to give the Government power to direct more money into selected areas of housing need, nor that there would be any co-operative housing schemes. 
These matters are mentioned in statements presumably to indicate to young people that the Government has this important matter in hand and is not neglecting it. It is designed to overcome the quite proper inference that housing is being used as an economic weapon and that young people are being deprived of housing in the Government's endeavour to try to grapple with this problem because it has no other real policies with which to overcome inflation. In the Government's statistics issued today it was indicated quite clearly that the demand for housing is falling. This statement was made: 
Local government approvals of private dwellings declined further in January. In seasonally adjusted terms, approvals in the 3 months to January were well below the exceptionally high levels reached in the middle months of 1973. 
It is quite clear that the question of housing is being used by the Government in this way. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, which deals with a wider range of matters than just the question of approvals and the number of young people who are able to borrow, indicates that the number of loans insured has dropped. It is not good enough for the Minister to indicate that there are problems in the housing area. He is the one who has to come up with the results. All we have heard in the time that this House has been sitting are statements by the Minister that if he was in a position to provide housing he would be able to build homes in the same way as he built them at North Rocks. In answer to a question by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  in this House on 5 March last the Minister suggested that houses made avail able to defence personnel cost between $23,000 and $27,000 and were said to be valued at between $40,000 and $47,000. I can vouch for the fact that homes in this area may be worth that much money, but the price of land in the area is of the order of $20,000. The land on which these defence Service homes were built has been owned by the Commonwealth Government for many years. It was a disused rifle range. Quite clearly, when the Minister speaks glibly of the cost of building homes on this subdivision, he has overlooked the price of the land. He has led young people to believe that they would be able to get homes at that price if this Government had control over this area. 
It was a quite clear misrepresentation. The Minister speaks glibly about the recruits needed in the building industry, yet we have seen no real attempt made to bring to Australia the necessary people to build homes and to overcome the manpower shortage. In fact, we have seen a discontinuance, largely, of the past immigration programs which have provided many of the skilled workers who contribute in this area. Many other matters were overlooked in  Her  Majesty's Speech; and I should like to mention before I have to conclude that child care and probate were important matters on which the Government could have commented but did not. 
Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development will no doubt recall his statement of early September 1973 in which he said that the Government had a unique plan for a mini-city on a site acquired at Parramatta for a Commonwealth office block. He added that the major part of the centre would be completed within 3 years of a decision to proceed, that the Government was committed to building such a centre and had now only to select the exact form. It is now some 6 months since that statement was made and since the Parramatta by-election. I now ask the Minister: Firstly, has all the site been acquired? Secondly, have working drawings been prepared and the exact form of the project decided? Thirdly, will he assure this House that this most important project is proceeding expeditiously, that moneys are available for it to proceed and that the first sod will be turned shortly? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the loan which closed on 18 October 1973 result in the long term bond rate increasing from 7 to 8i per cent and raise $266m. 
What amount of the moneys raised was subscribed by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
Did Reserve Bank deposits held on behalf of savings banks drop by some $50m in the week ending 24 October 1973. 
 I did not propose to address myself to the matters which I thought had been canvassed already at some length in this House tonight. But I daresay that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  would provoke even me to make some passing reference to the comments that he has made here tonight. I believe that the reason why this House is in the state in which it is today is the very irresponsibility of the Government which is sitting opposite us and which has brought this country almost to the brink of ruin. I think it is quite clear that the action proposed by the Opposition parties here is very responsible and that the Opposition senators also are entitled to exercise that responsibility, as they will, in dealing with Supply. This action will give the Australian people an opportunity to pass judgment on the Government in the manner in which I have already done. 
It is only a short time since a by-election was held for the seat of Parramatta. Some honourable members opposite may recall that fact. I notified the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  of the matter I propose to raise tonight. I thought that he would take the opportunity to follow me in this debate because the comments that I propose to make relate to the decision that was taken by the previous Liberal Government when it set about to acquire a site in Parramatta for the erection of an office block. This project was commenced and a site subsequently was acquired, albeit after the election of 1972. Although in the period that has transpired - some 16 months - we have seen a number of comments about this proposal, we have not seen any determined effort by this Government to bring to fruition this urgently required project. I wish to point out to the House some of the comments of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development because I think they are pertinent. Over a long period of time he has made comments in the Parramatta Advertiser'. One would almost think that he was the member for Parramatta and not the member for an adjoining electorate by the way in which he has made comments about the needs of Parramatta from time to time. He indicated the urgent need in this area for such proposals - 
I can, but this is of particularly urgent significance and I think it is a matter that is deserving of being raised in this House. I hope that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  is not suggesting that Parramatta can be ignored. If that is his view or his Government's view I think it is clearly my responsibility to point it out to the electors of Sydney and the elec tors of Australia. Parramatta is deserving of far more credit than the Minister is attempting to give it by his interjections. I think it would benefit the Government to listen to me as I am discussing the projects that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has indicated are required in Parramatta. The Minister said we require cultural facilities for this great metropolitan centre. He mentioned art galleries, theatres and cultural workshops as things that were needed. With that I would agree. During the by-election he produced roughly drawn diagrams which appeared, strangely enough, in the newspapers in Parramatta. I think it is perhaps proper to give the headline: 'Unique Mini "City" Plan'. We saw most elaborate plans thrown around the electorate as though they were almost a reality. 
Remarkably, yes. The following week appeared the headline: 'Music Bowl is Likely to Cap it AH'. One would have wondered what Parramatta was about to get by the amount of largesse that was about to be distributed on this electorate, none of which has been seen since that remarkable day of 22 September. Since the Minister raised these matters I have also had reason to raise them. He mentioned that we needed offices of the Postmaster-General's Department, the Department of Labour, the Department of Health, the Department of Services and Property, the Department of Social Security and the Taxation Office in the electorate of Parramatta. I have added in representations of my own that we urgently require a Department of Immigration representative in this electorate. That is a particular need and one which I would have thought would have been obvious even to the Minister, who has so many migrants in his own electorate, which adjoins mine. 
Time is against me so I must turn to another point. More recently we have heard a large number of comments about rental accommodation. In fact, I could take honourable members through Hansard and show them where the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has from time to time paid a great deal of attention to the consequences of Government's continuing to rent accommodation rather than buy its own. In the 16 months that this Government has been in office we have seen no major projects for office accommodation commenced. The only office blocks completed were those commenced under the previous administration. Remarkably enough I have here another article from a more recent copy of the Parramatta 'Advertiser' which states: 'PS Moving in Here'. It is worth noting that it is moving into an office block owned by the Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd finance company. The Commonwealth Government will take up 7 floors of that building lo be rented. 
I do not know. It is associated with one of the banks, rather surprisingly. We now have the Commonwealth renting accommodation in this building because of urgent needs for office accommodation. Recently the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in a speech introducing the States Grants (Urban Transport) Bill made certain comments which ought to be recorded again because they are associated with the comments I propose to address to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Government. The Minister for Transport indicated that proposals for construction of a building on the Meggitt site at Parramatta were being considered by the Goverment. He said that the proposed railway line to serve Parramatta would be 24 miles long and would cater for a work force which is expected to rise from its present level of some 12,000 persons to 100,000 by the end of the century. Yet when I addressed a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in this place on 21 March in these terms: 
Firstly, has all the site been acquired? Secondly, have working drawings been prepared and the exact form of the project decided? Thirdly, will he assure this House that this most important project is proceeding expeditiously, that moneys are available for it to proceed and that the first sod will be turned shortly? 
He answered in these terms: 
There have been further discussions between the Department of Services and Property and my Department as to whether further lands should be acquired. Those discussions are still going on. In fact the matter is now before Cabinet which is discussing the type of development that is to 'be carried out in Parramatta. 
This answer differs greatly from the comments made by the Minister during the by-election campaign and differ greatly from the recognition that I have paid and the Minister paid some 16 months ago to the urgent need to sat isfy the demands for real accommodation - that is Government-owned accommodation - in this important metropolitan centre. But more importantly, I wished the Minister to have the opportunity to make reference to the remarks that I have seen in a journal named Objective'. In speaking about an alleged conflict between the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Services and Property it states: 
The result is an inter-departmental deadlock which has stalled virtually any building and acquisition program by the Labor Government in its 16 months of office. 
I should like the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to come into this House and tell us whether the Government will proceed with this important project and to explain why such important matters as these can result in conflict in this way. It is very relevant that the amount of rental accommodation occupied by the Government has risen from some 50 per cent under the previous administration to some 52 per cent now. 
Has the Minister for Health been approached for assistance and has he offered financial support for the establishment of what has been called in the Parramatta Press a clinic to carry out walk-in walk-out pregnancy terminations? If support is forthcoming, is such support of such clinics part of Government policy? 
I realise that the time for discussion of this very important matter is limited because of the Government's program, but I wish to make a number of small contributions to this very important debate which concerns everybody who has a care about Sydney as we know it and Sydney as we believe it ought to be. Many misconceptions have been proffered in this debate. For instance, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  suggested that the Church of England must have owned the roads in the area and that the roads in the area would be available without further cost in this development. Another misconception relates to the value of homes in the area. The 'Australian Financial Review' indicated that a triple fronted, red brick, tiled bungalow in Glebe was passed in at $20,500. The honourable member for Cook therefore suggested that even though homes are being passed in at that price a person would not be able to buy a home at less than $30,000. 
We know from the figures given in the speeches we have heard that the price for the land and the homes is $17,500,000 and that a further S8m is to be spent on renovation. By simple division we can calculate that the renovated home will cost about $36,000. I ask whether the expenditure of $36,000 on homes which may be bought for about $20,000 in that area today is reasonable. In its original submission to the Commonwealth inquiry into poverty the Church of England suggested when it offered the land to the Government that experiment with the provision of low cost housing along planned lines, was desirable, but the church said that it was not its task but rather the responsibility of government to subsidise low cost housing. 
Yesterday we heard the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  say that New South Wales was getting itself into a subsidy quagmire in relation to land it was purchasing. I suggest that in what we are seeing here now and the plans that have been put before us the Commonwealth Government is getting itself involved in a subsidy quagmire. I think it is rather pertinent to look at the report on this project, because it speaks about the housing that exists on the estate and the works that will be necessary to put the properties in some order. It is rather pertinent to note that the sort of works that are required are minor structural repairs, some re-roofing, new bathrooms, new kitchens and redecorating; and I would hasten to add new wiring, new drainage, plumbing and so on. Yet it is suggested that in these days of inflation we will be able to purchase services of this sort and provide them within the costs that have been suggested. When some 30,000 people are waiting for Housing Commission homes in New South Wales and some 6,000 aged people are seeking aged persons and subsidised accommodation, I do not believe it is the right method for the Government to undertake this project. Surely by some rezoning of the property or even by the Commonwealth buying the properties and farming them out to people who want to buy them and renovate them within a set plan, we would be able to achieve a far better environment in that area. By all means preserve the historic buildings for posterity, because that seems to be the important message coming through. For people who require low cost housing let the Government embark upon a more ambitious plan in some other area where there are not historic homes involved and where we can achieve the objective for a reasonable cost and for the benefit of New South Wales house more people and maintain our heritage. 
I address my question to the Minister for Education. In view of the Minister's answer to the honourable member for Isaacs, will the Minister acknowledge that he has before him numerous requests for both subsistence expenditure and capital expenditure for new and existing child care centres and pre-schools, particularly a number from my own electorate with its large number of 2- income earner families? Is not the Minister's answer on this matter an excuse for his lack of success in obtaining funds to meet these needs and an acknowledgement of Government priorities? 
I rise to support the amendment that has been moved to this Bill. Although I did not take part in the framing of the amendment, I endorse wholeheartedly the sentiments it expresses, because it sums up the views I had formed about these measures that were rushed in by the Government as a half hearted atempt to deal with the major problem facing this country - inflation. I wish to read again the terms of the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  and which I so wholeheartedly support. The amendment states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Government presents its total program to deal with inflation and to enable the full inflationary effect of the proposals contained in the Bill to be determined. 
The increased postal charges proposed in the Bills are part of a total scheme which it was alleged will deal with the problem of inflation. It is important that we look today at the total scheme before us. The proposed increase in Post Office charges must be related to the whole program. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  who initially foreshadowed the introduction of these Bills said: 
These decisions must be made in the context of renewed momentum in our inflationary  spiral. 
He went on to indicate that he was going to outline the Government's assessment of the task it faced and to indicate the manner in which it would approach that task. In referring to a matter about which all honourable members on this side could have told him, the Treasurer further said: 
The Government's hopes that the rate of price increase was slackening have proved illusory. 
It is something of which we are all well aware, although the Government attempted initially during the last election campaign to maintain that inflation was not a problem. I have in my possession an advertisement which I think has been used before in debates in this House. It shows that up until 16 May  -  2 days before the election - the Government persisted in saying that inflation was not a problem. The advertisement states: 
Only Whitlam has reduced Inflation by one third . . . Whitlam's he's so much better. 
The Australian people today can see for themselves very quickly just how much better this man and his Government have proved to be, when they bring in proposals such as these to increase charges - charges that we all have to meet and charges that underprivileged people, more so than others, have to meet. However, I shall come to that point in a little while. 
The Treasurer informed us that the plan was to reduce inflation and that the proposal to increase Post Office charges was part of the program. Yet we heard the remarkable admission yesterday in this place by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that this program would not deal with inflation at all. After that admission, I wonder why the Government is persisting with these Bills and its proposal to increase these charges when, in the view of the second highest man in the Government, the proposals will not be able to deal with the problem of inflation. The strong language that we heard in the Treasurer's speech was not reflected in the proposals to deal with inflation. They did not in any way come to grips with the problems that we faced. We on this side of the House have been waiting for a program from the Government to deal with inflation. We did not get it before the election or in the Governor-General's Speech, which we have not yet concluded discussing, and now we have not got it in the mini-Budget - or, as I have heard it called in other places, the micro-Budget - that was introduced last Tuesday evening. Although the speech of the Treasurer contained general language urging restraint, nothing in the proposals now before us in my view will bring about that restraint. Yet, the importance of the problem is still with us. 
I should like to refer to the comments of someone who, in the past, has been a professed supporter of this Government - Professor Downing - although he holds a statutory office now. Professor Downing says that if inflation persists at the rate that exists today, the very democracy that we have in this country will be in jeopardy. I believe that these comments highlight the very nature of the problem with which we must deal. Yet the proposals that we have before us do not come to grips with the problem. It is for these reasons that the amendment has been moved. We require a plan and the Australian people require a plan that will deal with all aspects of inflation and not fiddle with the problem in the way that these proposals do. 
I support wholeheartedly the proposals which have been advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I think they gain more credence every day; they have certainly gained more credence from the media. The Leader of the Opposition maintains that, as part of our proposals to deal with inflation, we should reduce these important impositions that the Government is making upon the community. I refer to his proposals for a reduction of income tax and interest rates and a reduction of these indirect charges which in fact feed inflation. That is the situation we have today. We do not have a proper approach from the Government to deal with the way in which we should go about increasing productivity. Surely the converse of restricting demand, as each of these Bills is designed to do, is to adopt the alternative approach and increase productivity. The Government does not seem to be able to come to grips with this problem. It is not prepared to come to grips with it. It is adopting what we know are tried and failed techniques of continuing to increase statutory charges. 
In the concluding remarks of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when foreshadowing these increased charges, he referred to the report of the Vernon Commission. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who spoke immediately before me was most complimentary in describing the report of the Vernon Commission. He described it as a very well prepared report. The Vernon Commission said that the increased Post Office charges were expected to be of the order of 12i per cent, yet in his concluding remarks the Special Minister of State said:  4 
At this point in time it seems likely that labour costs in 1974-75 will be about 25 per cent higher than in 1973-74, compared with the 12i per cent assumed previously by the Post Office and the Commission. 
It seems remarkable that, although we are living in an inflationary situation and although these Bills are designed to deal with inflation, no attempt is made to solve the real problem from which the Post Office suffers in its own funding, namely, the cost of labour. By the very way in which this Government has functioned in office it has carried through to the Post Office a 25 per cent increase in labour costs, yet we have seen no attempt by the Government to grapple with this problem and to reduce the costs of labour. 
I want to deal shortly with the matter of inflation and the way in which this particular proposal will be in itself inflationary. The 
Special Minister of State in his second reading speech indicated that government and business telephone rental will increase by $20 to $75 per annum and residential and other telephone rentals by $10 to $65 per annum. The increase in those rental charges for business houses is 36.3 per cent and for private users 18.1 per cent. What are we going to have when the business houses pass on to the people they have to deal with a charge of this nature? Do honourable members imagine that the increased rental on phones and the increased cost of using phones in business houses and the increased cost of postage will not be passed on to the customers? Do honourable members imagine that the Prices Justification Tribunal will not include in its considerations these additional charges as charges proper to be passed on to consumers? If we accept that the Prices Justification Tribunal will include these as proper charges one must accept the proposition I am putting that the imposition of these additional charges will mean additional costs on every product that the end users purchase. 
We saw also in the program that the Government introduced the increase in pensions, and I applaud that. But when the Government deals with pensioners in this way and writes out of the program proposals for the abolition of the means test and so leaves out other people who will be affected by these impositions, I ask: Where is this Government's social conscience. A large number of the people who live in my electorate are superannuitants - I never hear their problems mentioned in this House - and they lose continually as a result of increased impositions and the effect of inflation on their meagre incomes. Then they have to suffer also the prospect that they had working for them, the abolition of the means test, being phased out in this program. I find little to applaud in the increasing of these charges. I must admit that I did applaud the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the proposals in the Bills that we have before us to reduce the charges for STD calls made from other parts of the metropolitan area to the more remote western suburbs. I consider the present charges to be quite iniquitous. I regard places like Penrith, Richmond and Windsor as part of Sydney and as deserving to be classed as part of Sydney for the purpose of making telephone calls: And to the extent that this change has been made, and it is only to a limited extent, I applaud the measure but I believe that the Post Office should go much further. 
There are many other matters I should like to cover, particularly in relation to couriers. Here the Government completely missed the boat because of the inefficient service it has run. The establishment of the Central Delivery Exchange in Sydney for professional people so as to avoid the use of the Post Office is indicative of this poor service. Although I have not asked him, I dare say that the firm of which the Special Minister of State was a partner until recently is a user of this exchange in the city of Sydney. This indicates that all impartial observers believe that mail services in our city have not been efficient and that other means are necessary to overcome the problem of communicating with people in the commercial area. These failings of the Post Office clearly warrant looking at. They have been partially dealt with in the Vernon Committee report, yet to date we have not any indication that the total proposals contained in the report are going to be accepted by the Government. We had a general indication about 3 months ago before the report was published - I might add that it was published only recently for the perusal of members - and we were told that a statutory corporation would be established. Now when the Government wishes to increase postal and telegraphic charges we are given a look at the report because the Government is able to use it to justify the increases. 
Yet the other proposals in the report are neglected. We do not hear of them. We know nothing of the program that the Government intends to introduce. We do not know whether the Government intends to adopt the many recommendations contained in the report, although following the remarks of the Minister of Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in this debate and the laudatory way in which he praised the report, I very much doubt whether the Government could do anything but introduce the proposals in this report in their entirety. If it does, and adopts a commercial approach in dealing with the postal trade unions, and adopts a more realistic approach to the questions of seniority and the hiring and firing of staff and so on, we may well see a more efficient Post Office. But if the transfer of power to a statutory corporation is to remove from the eyes of members of this House and the questioning of the members in this House the responsibility of the Govern ment for the failings of the Post Office I believe it will be a mistake. 
If all the recommendation are adopted and we see a real and efficient business enterprise come from it, then that will be worthwhile. However, if the program is introduced in part without the proposals that are intended to make it a more efficient and a well worth while operation then I think we will be making a big mistake because in the time I have been in this House - and it has only been short - matters relating to the Post Office, in common with social service and immigration matters, have been the major matters of complaint that have come to me and that I have had to raise on behalf of my constituents. If the intention is only to remove my opportunity to scrutinise and my ability to make representations on behalf of my constituents, on behalf of the important people in my electorate - and that is the totality of my electorate - I believe it will be a mistake. In other words, what I want to hear from the Government, and I hope we hear it from the Minister, is that this report will be adopted in its entirety. If it is that may well be a worthwhile step we will all applaud. 
It is a pleasure to speak in this debate on these 2 important Bills. We on this side of the House do support the States Grant (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1974 and the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill 1974. the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has indicated, most adequately in my view, the role that honourable members on this side of the House played when they were last in government in initiating the programs that have led to these grants. I do not believe that the programs themselves should be seen as a great reform in the sense that they merely constitute grants from this Government to the State governments to enable them to carry out their proper duties. Looking at the very limited nature of these grants and the task that has to be done in each of the States, it must be realised that this is only the start of a long program. I do not believe that we will see reforms of any consequence for a long, long time. 
If one listened to the speech of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and read or listened to the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  one would be aware that in respect of this matter there has been a great deal of huffing and puffing on the part of the Government in an attempt to bolster this program and to make it appear to be something more than it is in reality. I ask all honourable members to examine very carefully the limited number of projects and to compare them with the projects that have to be implemented in most States - in fact, in my view, in all States - to achieve a public transport system that will be adequate for years to come. 
The honourable member for Chifley praised in this debate the Government's performance in implementing its promises. He said that the Government had not broken any of its promises. I draw to his attention the fact that only a few days ago we heard a serious contribution in this House when the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  informed us that the Government's promises in relation to child care and the abolition of the means test on pensions would not be implemented in accordance with the timetable that had formally been proposed and that these reforms were being postponed. It is quite clear that the Government does not put great credence in its promises and it is prepared to break its promises when that serves its own end. 
It is quite true, as the honourable member should well know. If in his electorate, as there is in mine, there is much concern about child care I am surprised that he would even enter into this debate and make comments that would indicate that child care is of little consequence in his electorate. I would have thought that if the Government was looking for other expenditure to prune in order to be seen to be responsible it would have found something other than the grants for child care benefits and child care facilities. These grants are urgently needed and required and were of great importance during the last election campaign. If the honourable member for Robertson went around my electorate and looked in every bus shed and saw pasted on the walls the signs stating that Labor cares about child care- 
I appreciate that,  Mr Speaker. 
 Mr Speaker,  I certainly conform to your ruling, although I would have thought that the bus sheds may have had some relationship to the matter under discussion. In speaking to these important Bills I very much endorse the comments of the honourable member for Gippsland. He emphasised the support of the Opposition for a program which brings about public transport improvement in this important area. A great deal of play has been made of the delay occasioned by the election that intervened between the introduction of this Bill initially and today's debate. These 2 Bills were first introduced into this House on 4 April. The agreement that is annexed to the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill at that time was not signed. 
The honourable member for Chifley mentioned specifically the dates on which some of the Ministers for Transport, Premiers and  Deputy  Premiers signed the agreement. It is pertinent to note that the agreement was signed last by the Labor Premier of Tasmania on 13 June. It is pertinent to note that 13 June was not so long ago. I would observe that if at the conclusion of this debate the Bills were put through both Houses promptly, brought to the Governor-General and put into operation within a very short period of time there would have been a delay of only lj months. In fact, I think the argument about a delay is a very tired and trite argument to put up in this debate. It is only meant to score alleged political points. 
Quite clearly governments of the opposite persuasion of the present Government have been involved in public transport matters in the past. It is pertinent that past governments have not endeavoured to try to tie the hands of the States by specifically making grants under section 96 of the Constitution. In the past the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was one who was very instrumental in assisting to bring about a program for and a recognition of the need for standard gauge railways throughout this country. Programs were implemented which brought about standard gauge railways almost across Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport mentioned that only a small section of standard gauge railway from Crystal Brook to Adelaide has to be constructed to bring this to completion. 
It is important to get this matter into perspective, because the Minister in his second reading speech placed great emphasis on the use of the motor vehicle and the problem we have with the use of the motor vehicle in our major cities. He mentioned the pollutantscarbon monoxide, hydrocarbon, oxides of nitrogen, particles in the air and so on, of which we are all very much aware, particularly those who live in Sydney and, I imagine, those who live in Melbourne. Undoubtedly, while that is a problem and a problem we all recognise, when we compare the expenditure under this Bill on urban transport and the sum that is to be granted later on to the States for urban roads and other roads we see that the figures are quite divergent. Certainly we do not see a program requiring expenditure in excess of $ 1,000m for urban transport, as is to be provided over 3 years for roads. 
I do not in any way detract from the argument - in fact I think the argument is certainly valid - that a great deal more money ought to be spent on urban and public transport facilities, particularly those that are not polluting; but I think the matter has to be put into perspective because clearly, if the Government is holding this program out to be one that will solve the urban transport problem, it is deceiving the people. It will hardly provide the real solution to this problem. 
The New South Wales Government seemed to be singled out for particular criticism in the Minister's second reading speech. Mention was made of a failure by the New South Wales Government to come to grips with some of the transport problems over a long period of time. It is pertinent to note that the Minister referred to the eastern suburbs railway as being one of the few new programs initiated in New South Wales. My recollection, although it is not a very long recollection in these matters - perhaps it is more a matter of delving into history - is that we had in New South Wales governments of the same political persuasion as honourable members opposite. Those governments continually promised to build the eastern suburbs railway, but it was not until a LiberalCountry Party government came to office in New South Wales that the eastern suburbs railway was re-commenced. If condemnation is needed, I think the Australian Labor Party as much as the Liberal and Country Parties is deserving of condemnation. I believe this is an area in which political parties should join together, as the Opposition has joined with the Government tonight in supporting a program which, although it has in it defects, endeavours to come to grips with the problems we face. 
I was pleased to note that under the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill moneys are being made available to the States to initiate research programs. I personally see this as being the most important part of this program, because it acknowledges the importance of the States in this area. It is a pity that the sum involved is a mere $lm. When I contemplate the expenditure of $2m by the New South Wales Government to produce the Sydney Area Transportation Study, a full study of the transport needs of Sydney, I see the amount involved in this Bill as paling into insignificance. Let us look at the alternative. I am not being critical of the officers involved in the Bureau of Transport Economics, who are undoubtedly diligent in their duties and responsibilities and have produced many commendable reports, albeit reports on rather obscure matters, particularly those that have landed on my desk over the last several weeks. But those officers number a mere 59 persons. I have not been able to find in accounts I have been able to peruse any detailed breakdown of the amount of Commonwealth money allocated to the Bureau of Transport Economics. I have in mind that if reference cannot be found to such an amount it is probably a very insignificant sum. In those circumstances I am wondering how the Commonwealth could ever claim to have the capacity and the personnel to be able to embark upon the studies needed if these very necessary reforms are to be brought about. 
A great deal of emphasis has been placed upon the city of Parramatta in the Sydney Area Transportation Study. In his second reading speech the Minister also acknowledged that there are many transport problems that impinge upon Parramatta in particular. Parramatta is a city which is going to grow quickly in the future. I think that is acknowledged by honourable members on both sides of the House. It is estimated that by the year 2000 there will be a commercial population of 100,000 in the city of Parramatta compared to the commercial population of some 15,000 persons at the present time. The Minister has mentioned in rather general terms in his second reading speech a large number of additional government proposals. 
Implementation of those proposals is not provided for in this legislation. They are proposals that are designed to deal in part, I guess, with the transport problems of Parramatta and to relate the transport problems of Parramatta to the Government's claim that it has done a great deal for the western suburbs of Sydney. Anyone who reads the Minister's second reading speech will note that he has spent some time studying, in particular, proposals for rapid transit systems. He has obviously seen some of these on his trips overseas. The Minister has not related his proposals to a particular centre. Later in his speech the Minister mentioned particularly proposals concerning a railway line to serve Parramatta and to provide for transport from Castle Hill, Hoxton Park, Fairfield, Carlingford and Epping to Parramatta. Specifically he said: 
Recently the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of New South Wales proposing that the Australian Government construct a distinct rail system using the Australian urban passenger train based on Parramatta. 
The Minister said that this system would service the rapidly growing areas I have specifically mentioned. He went on to say that such  a system would reinforce the development of Parramatta as a growth centre. I think that we would all acknowledge the merit of such a development. Diagrams which I have in front of me and which appeared in the Press - I seem to learn more about most of these matters from the Press than I do in my capacity as the honourable member for Parramatta - indicate that there are in existence railway lines serving Parramatta. Anyone who examines the Sydney Area Transportation Study will observe what I know for a fact from living in the area, and that is, that Parramatta is rather poorly served by the existing rail system. 
I am surprised that the honourable member for Banks should ask such a question. If that interjection is an indication of the knowledge of those honourable members opposite who claim to know so much about the western suburbs of Sydney I will certainly have pleasure in quoting it in the electorates of Parramatta, Mitchell, Chifley, Prospect and Reid, all electorates in which I understand the Australian Labor Party supposedly takes an interest from time to time. 
At the moment Parramatta Station is almost an offshoot of the existing railway lines in the area. The Sydney Area Transportation Study put forward specific proposals, which I would like to commend to the House, concerning integration of the existing railway system with new rail system proposals. I cannot imagine how the Minister could propose, as he obviously has in his second reading speech, that a separate and distinct railway system ought to be developed with new facilities utilising perhaps the existing roadways, although I am not sure about that, that would come to Parramatta and that would be in some way integrated with the existing system but not be a part of it, that would utilise separate rolling stock and that would perhaps have a separate rail gauge, which envisages, as the Minister has said in some of his speeches, lighter carriages, different types of wheels and so on, to serve a major metropolitan centre such as Parramatta will be in the future. Although such a proposal is not contained in the Bill - and it is not the Bill that I am criticising; it is the Minister's second reading speech and the Minister's comprehension of the problems that exist in Parramatta- 
That is what the Government will be paying for, but it is certainly not what was mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech. I invite the honourable member for Chifley to read it. To do so may enlighten him. I dare say that some of these proposals may affect his electorate as well. The proposals contained in the Sydney Area Transportation Study envisage the enlarging of the Carlingford railway line and, in addition, its linking to Beecroft. The Minister has in mind a proposal that, if implemented, would link Carlingford with Epping. He has not given me any details of those proposals, even though I have written to him and asked him for details of them. He has not told me whether the proposals he has in mind are the- same as those of the New South Wales Government. Although he continues to speak of them, as he has done in his second reading speech on this Bill, he has not indicated where the Government of which he is a member stands in relation to the Sydney Area Transportation Study, which envisages the integration of the existing railway lines with the proposals that the transport experts who compiled the study have in mind for Parramatta to achieve a workable solution to the transport problems of Parramatta. It is clear from the Sydney Area Transportation Study that Parramatta could have a railway station that would be capable of serving the city and proposals bringing to it the existing lines from Fairfield, the new lines from Hoxton Park and Castle Hill as well as being linked through Carlingford and the expanding area of Gosford. I believe that if the Government were to look at the program that the New South Wales Government has, and endorses it, a great deal in transportation reform would be achieved. But if the Minister continues to puff about these matters, as the honourable member for Chifley did earlier in this debate, we will see little progress being made in solving the problems and we will see the respective governments becoming less as one in reaching solutions. They will be apart and the problems will be neglected and will not be solved. If they come together and work to solve them, then as the New South Wales Government has shown in this instance, a great deal can be achieved in co-operation. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Did he in answer to a question without notice on 5 March 1974 state that houses made available to personnel at North Rocks cost $23,000 and $27,000 and were said to be valued at between $40,000 and $47,000. 
If so, at what range of prices were houses sold to the personnel. 
When and by whom was the value of between $40,000 and $47,000 placed on the completed properties. 
Did the cost of between $23,000 and $27,000 for the houses include (a) the cost price of the land on which the homes were built or (b) a price at valuation, or was not the price of land included at all. 
If at cost price, what is the range of the prices. 
If at valuation, what is the range of the valuations. 
If the price of land was not included, what is the range of commercial values applicable to such lots on which homes were built as at the date, or the mean date, on which the houses were sold to personnel. 
I rise firstly to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  The amendment proposes that the Roads Grants Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to more easily suit the requirements and administrative needs of the States and local government authorities. I propose to address the major portion of my remarks to the requirements of co-operation between this Government, the State governments and the third tier of government about which we hear so much - local government. I was certainly pleased to hear the remarks of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who indicated that co-operation in his sphere of activity was important to him. I accept his statement that he endeavours to co-operate with State governments. It is a pity that in this important area of roads and expenditure on roads we have not seen the same degree of co-operation. Certainly in the last of the 3 Bills we are debating, the Transport (Planning and Research) Bill, the spirit that the Minister proposes has not been kept. The Opposition will move more specific amendments to the National Roads Bill 1974 and the Roads Grants Bill 1974. I seek leave to incorporate the amendments in Hansard. 
I thank the House. We now appreciate that the Government and the Opposition are at issue on the very principles that ought to be applied in relation to roads and the making available of moneys for the building of roads. There is no doubt - certainly the remarks of the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  have not altered my view - that there is a need for co-operation with the State governments to establish priorities for the building and construction of national roads. I do not think this has ever been denied. The reference by the honourable member for Grey to questions he asked in this House during the term of the Liberal and Country Party governments has not altered that proposition very much at all. 
I would like to refer in part to a Press statement issued by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on 23 July following conferences with State Transport Ministers in relation to these Bills as they affect roads. I wish to do this because the Minister acknowledged in his statement on that occasion where the expertise lies in relation to road construction. I do not accept all his comments. I wish to draw the attention of the House specifically to the second sentence in the Minister's statement. He said: 
We must bring rational planning into Australia's entire transport pattern, and the New South Wales Government's willingness to join with us in this highway study is a most encouraging sign. The officers of State's Department of Main Roads have acquired skills and experience in road planning and construction that will be invaluable in this important project. 
The Minister acknowledges, therefore, that the experience in relation to the building of roads and the skills necessary for road planning and construction lie with the State governments. One wonders therefore why there is this urgent need to transfer the power from those people who have, responsibility and skills at the moment to this Government. 
The Transport (Planning and Research) Bill acknowledges that moneys necessary for research ought to be made available to State governments. World experience indicates that there is a need for research. I note that in Great Britain the Transport and Road Research Laboratory employs some 1,000 people, about 50 per cent of whom are scientists and engineers. It has an annual expenditure of Stg5m. It must be acknowledged that there is a need for research. So one cannot quibble with the need to make available funds for this very important purpose. We certainly support the allocation of money for this purpose. 
I turn now to the Roads Grants Bill. Each clause in the Bill makes specific provisions. For the purpose of example I wish to refer to clause 6 (2), but it is only one of a number of sub-clauses. Clause 6 (2) reads: 
A State shall, out of moneys paid to it under section 5 in respect of a year, expend during that year on the construction of rural arterial roads, in accordance with the approved program of projects for that year or a part of that year, an amount equal to the amount that is applicable to the State in respect of that year in accordance with Schedule 2. . . . 
Clearly each sub-clause of clause 6 provides that expenditure must be made in accordance with an approved program of projects. 
Clause 6 provides that in each case, in each of the areas for which money is to be allocated, the expenditure must be subject to Commonwealth Government approval. Yet this Bureau of Roads report which has been quoted to us on a number of occasions specifically provides in chapter 8, paragraph 1, that grants for rural local roads be not subject to project or program approval. The Bureau of Roads, the Bureau that has been held out to us as the group of experts who have made these recommendations that expenditure ought to be taken from the hands of responsible State governments- 
I said responsible State governments and, in response to the honourable member for Melbourne in particular, a most responsible State Government in Victoria. In this respect I would acknowledge that if the moneys were made available to the State Governments they would be spent responsibly, and if they were not spent responsibly the members of the State governments would meet their just rewards at the ballot box. That is something which honourable members opposite do not acknowledge at all. But the Bureau of Roads, the experts than honourable members opposite rely on, specifically mentions that in the case of those roads grants should not be made available on a tied basis as the Bill proposes. 
The news release issued on 18 July by the Minister for Transport, in referring specifically to these allocations, made this remarkable statement:  'The significance of these allocations lies in the reasons for them', said  Mr Jones.  '"Revolutionary" is not too strong a term for what we are now doing'. 
That is what the Minister sees as his objective. He sees it as being revolutionary to take responsibility from the States and to assume that responsibility here in Canberra. He argues that even in relation to rural roads, roads in remote outback areas, the expenditure ought to be approved by a Commonwealth department. That is the proposition that is being put before us. I cite a most progressive document produced during the last election campaign and entitled 'The Way Ahead with a Liberal-Country Party Government'. I refer honourable members opposite to this progressive document because it may help them to understand what the Australian people will seek from them in this important area. It reads:  .... to ensure optimum transport systems for Australia will require close co-operation between Federal and State governments and local authorities, with the State governments retaining the maximum  posible  responsibility for operations and decisionmaking. The Federal Government has an important role to play internally, and a principal responsibility for international transport; 
Clearly our progressive policy is that the States should be given responsibility in these important areas for the expenditure of funds. When we consider the speeches that have been delivered by honourable members opposite and the propositions that have been put to us in relation to the Roads Grants Bill, we are surprised at them when viewed against the content of the Prime Minister's policy speech. 
If one looks at the specific sections which relate to roads, one would almost believe that the Labor Party also wanted co-operation with the States in these matters. The Prime Minister's policy speech for the election that took place not so long ago reads: 
The present Commonwealth Aid Roads Act expires at the end of June. The Bureau of Roads made a report to assist the Government in considering financial assistance to the States for the ensuing period. The Minister for Transport tabled the report last December. Discussions have since been held with the States and also, for the first time, but in accordance with the Bureau's recommendation, with local government authorities. These discussions will be resumed after the elections. 
No doubt they were resumed, but we have not seen as a result of those discussions the co-operation that was implied in the Prime Minister's speech. 
I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to an article I read fairly recently because I think it sums up what I see as the real plot - the very revolutionary plot - of which the Minister speaks. The article appeared in 'Rydge's Digest' of October 1973 and it is headed 'Games Politicians Play with Transport'. It may be illuminating. It reads: 
Urban planning is a 3-layer cake, with no icing on top and very little jam between the layers. A cake, such as that, should and does end up as a sticky trifle. 
At the bottom are the technical consultants, whose job is to provide expert advice to various planning bodies. Unfortunately, much of the advice they offer is out of date, and based on what happened in the United States 15 years ago. 
The next layer is made up of the proliferation of planning bodies, local, State and Federal, whose  overlapping responsibilities cause dissension and in-fighting. They make decisions based on the out of date technical advise received from consultants. At the top sit the politicians. 
I had in mind specifically the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  The article continues: 
They do not care what the consultants or the planning bodies say or recommend. They decide and make plans according to the politics of the situation. 
The result is that urban planning is a mish-mash of misplanning, with millions of dollars of taxpayers' money wasted, while the overcrowded cities continue to choke because of lack of action. 
If I may add my own words, they continue to choke also because of 'lack of cooperation'. I think that article sums up adequately the sort of role we are getting ourselves into as a Federal Government when we undertake to get into this mish-mash and to offer solutions. Those were the sort of solutions that we heard tonightfrom the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. One could not disagree with his generalities but one could certainly disagree with the propositions that he has put on a number of other occasions. 
Specifically I should like to draw the attention of honourable members to a letter that was reported in the 'Northern District Times', a paper which serves my electorate. It sums up the position into which we are getting ourselves and why the Minister for Urban and Regional Development was so anxious to speak in this debate. The newspaper report shows that  Mr Uren  was speaking about allocations for road construction and said that they were covered by the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act of 1969. The report states: 
The Act leaves the determination of programs, priorities and route selection to State governments and their statutory authorities.  Mr Uren  said the agreement would be in force until 1974, but was currently under review by the Federal Government. The review would consider whether new legislation to operate from July, 1974, should include provision for more direct control by the Australian Government over expenditure on particular roads and projects.  Mr Uren  said that he would certainly be pressing for this control and would have the support of his Cabinet colleagues. 
Undoubtedly he did. The report continues: 
He would insist on very careful scrutiny of any proposal which could result in the destruction of communities, and areas of natural beauty, when considering road construction under any new agreement. 
In other words what the Minister wants is to be able to review the expenditure priorities set by the States. He makes great play on this. He speaks in this debate about the failure of State authorities to abandon their out of date proposals for radial transport freeways and so on. It is quite obvious that he has not looked at the document produced by the Sydney Area Transportation Study. That document clearly adopts proposals for a grid of roads throughout Sydney and abandons the concept of which the Minister is so critical. The Minister implies that only by having Commonwealth control in this area can these sorts of desirable propositions be implemented. He is not the only font of wisdom. Quite clearly the States about which the Minister for Transport spoke, with their expertise which the Minister complimented, have the ability to come to these conclusions and the personnel to implement them. Why should we not rely on the States? Why should we assume that responsibility ourselves when there are more important matters - I am not denigrating the importance of transport to people as individuals - with which a national Parliament ought to be dealing? 
I am not convinced that bringing these matters to Canberra solves the problem. I should like to draw the attention of honourable members to an area in my own electorate which I think highlights the problems with which we have to deal when the Commonwealth enters these areas. Victoria Road - a very important major road in Sydney that carries a great deal of traffic between Parramatta and Sydney and serves the totality of the western suburbs - has on it and along it an amount of ribbon development. I refer honourable members opposite who appear to be so bored with these remarks to the suburb of Ermington which has a shopping centre set off the road but has a number of traffic lights associated with it. 
If Labor Party members have to ask where Ermington is I shall certainly make that known in that part of the electorate. It is the only area which does return a substantial Labor vote. There have been plans to widen the road at the Ermington shopping centre and to enable traffic to turn off the main road with ease into the shopping centre. The Postmaster-General's Department - that most progressive department for which we are responsible - has for some 12 months delayed and procrastinated in moving its own facilities that had to be moved before any roadworks could be done. The money has been allocated but a Commonwealth Government department, an instrumentality for which we are responsible, appears to have delayed the work necessary and certainly the work has not been commenced to date. I refer honourable members to a report that was recently produced in this Parliament in relation to data systems. I would have thought that honourable members opposite may have read this report and realised that even here in Canberra, with all the expertise that we have, different systems can develop. There can even be systems that cannot be satisfactorily integrated with all our wisdom. What happened in that particular area? It is pertinent to note that the Government now has to bring forward a report to rationalise data systems and to enable them to work effectively. One would have thought that with all the expertise in Canberra we would have been able to adopt a suitable system. It indicates that even within departments there is a lack of liaison and this lack of liaison is very evident. If we have problems, as we no doubt do, in relation to transport, they are not necessarily solved by bringing all the power back to Canberra and hoping that we will be able to do a job better than we did, say, in relation to data systems. 
From a reading of the Sydney Area Transportation Study there is reason to conclude that it may be desirable that we examine some of our own powers in relation to transport matters. I refer honourable members specifically to page 31 of the Transportation Study where the positive suggestion was made as to what the Commonwealth Government could do in relation to its own power. It was suggested that tax deductions for public transport fares should be considered and would be a considerable help. The section reads: 
Tax deductions for public transport fares combine the benefits of increasing public transport usage while maintaining adequate operating revenues. It is difficult to accurately measure benefits to the community, both direct and indirect, but it is believed that these will be substantial. 
This is an area in which we ourselves can act, yet I never hear honourable members opposite make suggestions that may assist to encourage public use of public transport. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
We have heard from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  a number of comments in reply to the proposed amendments which have been moved by the Opposition. The Minister related those statements to the Government's policy in relation to transport. Particularly, he related them to the total policy which the Government has for transport matters. In fact, the Minister did not answer the very problem to which we are directing our attention in this amendment. What we object to and why we propose this amendment is because the Government is not only ordering priorities for the money which it makes available but also because it is seeking, as a condition precedent to making those funds available, to order the way in which the total sums available for transport and road matters are to be spent in the States, not only by State governments but also by local government bodies. 
These are new principles. As the Minister said in his statement which I read earlier tonight they are somewhat - in my words, not in his - revolutionary. In his words they are revolutionary. I do not believe the Australian people yet know what is proposed. Certainly, in the policy speech to which the Minister referred and which was given by the Prime Minister in the campaign through which we have all just come no reference was made to these revolutionary changes. No indication was given that the Commonwealth would take over responsibility to tell the States how every penny is to be spent on roads by local governments and State governments. This is a new principle. This is a revolutionary thought which is proposed in this legislation. It is something new and the people of Australia ought to know. It is for this reason that we say that these amendments ought to be approved and ought to be passed in this House and in another place. 
I believe that if necessary we will go to the barricades because I do not think the Australian people want to see Canberra making these decisions. A little earlier I cited the example of the Post Office. That is an organisation for which the Government is now responsible. No doubt very responsible people run the Post Office but it cannot move itself to help the Department of Main Roads fix a bottleneck on Victoria Road. I do not mind if the Minister for Transport wants to do something to help me in Parramatta. Running through my electorate is a national highway. In effect it passes right down the main street of Parramatta. Church Street, Parramatta, carries the bulk of traffic passing between Brisbane and Melbourne. 
We are not trying to frustrate anything at all. 
Quite certainly this program which the Government is putting does not propose to solve problems overnight. They are there and they have been solved. The Govenment has to attempt to solve them. There is no doubt about that. For this reason we supported in principle the National Roads Act. The Government should consider whether a by-pass road ought to be erected under its corridor scheme in the same way, remarkably, that a by-pass road is proposed for Newcastle which I noticed was specifically mentioned and specifically singled out. What we will have by this sort of technique is government in accordance with those who are is power and in accordance with the cities to which they belong. I am not suggesting that there are any improper motives in this but I ask honourable members to look back at the way in which the Government made its decision in relation to the planning of an international airport and about which the Minister changed his mind. 
I am sorry. Cabinet changed its mind. The Minister's recommendation has not yet been put to it. That important planning decision was made because it was thought that it was out of the way and that it would not affect people in Labor-held electorates or in marginal electorates. That is the sort of planning which we get, the sort of pork-barrel politics that we get in relation to road planning when we have a government which makes decisions as to where small roads will be, what sort of local government priorities will be set, where rural road grants will be given and so on. I do not want that sort of power myself. I would rather see it set in terms of the priorities that the people closest to the community are able to assess and not the priorities set by those who happen to be representative of larger areas, as we all are, and who are not able to relate as readily as can State members of Parliament or members of local councils in assessing the needs of a community. 
That is not denying the concept of national roads and national planning in relation to roads that must meet national needs. But it is saying that in relation to those areas in which the priorities are purely of a local basis, those priorities must be set by the people who are best able to assess them. That is not what is being proposed in this Bill. The Opposition has specifically proposed an amendment that will remove the power of the Federal Government to tell the States how they will spend the money that they raise. That is the proposition contained in the amendment. It is revolutionary, as the Minister has suggested. It is the sort of revolution that we on this side of the House do not want and it is the sort of revolution that the people of Australia, if they knew about it, would not want. Honourable members opposite seem to espouse the proposition that they have a mandate. I do not think they have, when one examines the way in which the election results turned out. If they had really been given a mandate the Government would be in control of the Senate. That is a fair proposition. Quite properly the Government did not get an overall mandate. In those circumstances the Government got whatever sort of mandate it has on the basis of a proposition contained in the policy speech. 
The revolutionary concept of which the Minister has spoken was not contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It was clearly deleted if it was planned, and if it was planned afterwards it was done on the basis on which this Government is now working and that is an ad hoc decision to alter its priorities and its programs to suit the whims of honourable members opposite. That is the reason we reject it. We do not believe that people in Canberra - even people as well qualified as members on this side of the House are - should make these sorts of decisions. For that reason we have proposed this amendment. We will support it and support it fully. 
I believe that we will be seeking to postpone clause 6 because it is a very complex clause. It contains a number of sub-clauses of considerable importance. If one deals specifically with the individual sub-clauses, one finds in sub-clause (3) reference to an approved program of projects for a certain year having to be submitted and to the fact that the grants for construction and maintenance of rural local roads should be made in accordance with the approved program of projects for that year. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, in its own report, specifically recommended against such a clause when it said that grants for rural local roads should not be subject to an approved program of projects. As considerable amendment is required in relation to each of the sub-clauses of clause 6, we will be seeking to postpone consideration of this clause so that further amendments can be brought forward. 
In this debate there has been considerable misrepresentation of the Government's position. During the debate honourable members have spoken about the need for participation by, and the need for the involvement of, State governments and local governments, yet when we get down to the real issues we find that they were summed up by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  Earlier in the debate he said: 'We want to be the people who will decide in relation to all expenditure, all proposals and all road developments'. I am sorry that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has left the chamber because one can understand what I have just said from the very nature of the remarks that he made to me a little earlier and of the remarks that he has made in other places, quite publicly when he has referred to the North Western Distributor. What he says, knowing of course that 1 agree that the proposition that this particular road proposal is most undesirable, is: 'How else will we be able to stop this proposal unless I and, presumably, the Minister for Transport have this power?' That is the proposition that he puts. I reject that sort of proposition not because I do not want to stop that expressway proposal but because I believe that the people who have the responsibility of making that decision are the New South Wales Government, the government elected by the people of New South Wales. For that reason I do not want to see a transfer of power simply to achieve even what I believe to  bea  desirable objective. 
There is a great deal of confusion on the other side of the House. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  said that the Government was putting forward this proposition in order to stop freeway proposals. Yet in the second reading speech the Minister for Transport refers to a special report. He said in that speech:   . . in response to a request by my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  identified many advantages of freeways over heavily loaded arterial roads. These advantages include very significant reductions in road accidents, decreases 
I appreciate that,  Mr Chairman.  1 want to take this a little further, not along the lines that I was pursuing when you called me to order but in relation to comments made today by the Minister in relation to this question of power. Power is what is referred to in the clause to which I propose to move the amendment which has been foreshadowed. We are talking about the transfer ofthat power from the State Government which has the responsibility at the moment, to the Federal Government. The only justification that the Minister gave for this action- it is the only justification I have heard - was related to the difficulty that we as honourable mem bers have in reaching the Sydney International Airport. 
I would like to draw his attention, as I have done quite often throughout this debate, to the Sydney Area Transportation Study.I know that the Minister complained that he did not receive the Study as early as he might have, but I am sure that he has now had an opportunity to consider it in some detail. The corridor analysis indicates that 6 major transport corridors in Sydney require examination. They are the western, south-western, north-western, Manly-Warringah, the southern and northern suburbs corridors. The road to the Sydney International Airport falls within only a small ambit of the southern corridor. Yet the whole change of emphasis in our roads program to deal with the problems in the Botany area presupposes that we ought to neglect these other corridors, these other areas, where road programs are required. I am not saying that there are not proposals that ought to be advanced for the Botany area, but that proposals cannot be looked at to the total exclusion of the whole of the City of Sydney. We may well be influenced by our own concerns as to whether it is easy to get in and out of an airport, taking into consideration whether freight for which we might be responsible is affected by road proposals. But why should we assume a total responsibility for regulating State expenditure simply to achieve responsibility in those areas in relation to which we have to act at least to fulfil our responsibility. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be put. 
-I want formally to oppose the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 9 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Statements of expenditure, etc., to be furnished.) 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many overseas trips has each Minister undertaken, including the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister since 2 December 1972. 
What countries were visited, and what were the dates. 
How many persons accompanied each Minister on each visit at Government expense, excluding journalists. 
What was the nature of each visit. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by MrNicholls) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendments agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Did 625 people formerly employed by Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Limited register as unemployed. 
Have all but 32 obtained another job. 
What was the sex, age, nationality, and educational attainment in respect of (a) those since employed amd (b) those 32 still unemployed. 

 In what capacity were each  of  the employees dismissed by Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Limited formerly employed. 
In what capacity is each of the persons, for whom employment has been found, now employed. 
Were any of the former employees employed by Federal, State, or local government bodies or statutory corporations. 
Who now employs each of the 596 re-employed persons. 
Yesterday the Family Welfare Bureau in New South Wales had its annual meeting and closed its doors. I regard the closing down of the Bureau, a voluntary social welfare organisation in New 
South Wales, as a national disgrace. This organisation functioned in New South Wales after its formation during the last war. It was formed to provide welfare for ex-servicemen and their dependants. After the war its objectives and functions changed. It operated in Sydney in the area of Surry Hills, with a branch office in my electorate of Parramatta, with a number of valuable social workers. It performed invaluable tasks that were respected by the people able to use the facilities it offered and who were able to be attended by its social workers. Now all the social workers have been dismissed. There are 2 people remaining on the staff until the end of September to deal with the remaining administrative matters concerning this organisation. It operated in the areas of Surry Hills and Parramatta and advised on matters of marriage guidance and matters relating to immigrants. It had a number of special projects of an intimate nature, including a special study of migrants in car plants and their work in those plants. It also was undertaking a special study in relation to child care in the Surry Hills area. Numbers of students, particularly those in the social work departments of the University of Sydney and the University of New South Wales, undertook practical training with this organisation and gained a great deal of benefit from it. It was the only remaining nonsectarian private voluntary organisation in this field in Sydney, and it has closed its doors. 
I have a short table that I have copied out of the report on the income and expenditure of this organisation. In 1969 the income it received amounted to $34,683 and its expenditure was $28,134. It had a surplus that year of $6,549. In 1973 its income had risen to $56,671 and its expenditure was $57, 1 6 1 . It had a deficit of $490. For the last financial year, 1973-74, its income was $62,487 and its expenditure was $65,155. It suffered a deficit of $2,668. It was envisaged that in this financial year, 1974-75, on its budget its income still would be in the area of $60,000 but its expenditure would rise to $76,000. In these circumstances this organisation felt that it could no longer continue. 
The Family Welfare Bureau in fact did receive grants from numbers of Government departments. It received from the Attorney-General's Department a grant of some $14,800 for its marriage guidance work and from the former Department of Immigration it received $9,452. From the New South Wales Department of Youth and Community Services it received a separate grant of $5,500. A total of $29,752 was contributed this year by the two governments and some $30,000 was raised by volunteers for the maintenance of this organisation. That is a princely sum raised by the efforts of hardworking, sincere people. It is a sum which in the social welfare field I believe we cannot afford to lose. 
As I said, only recently the organisation employed 6 social workers. More recently it had only five, but this was because of particular circumstances. One of the social workers, as I mentioned, was working in my own electorate. Now that this organisation has closed it has assets remaining of $13,000 cash That money will be handed to the Smith Family to enable it to continue with its work. What are the reasons for the closure of this organisation? I know it may seem trite, but the figures I have read out clearly demonstrate that increasing costs have contributed to the closure of this voluntary organisation- inflation, in another word. Inflation has meant that its expected income from donations was likely to decrease. One of its major fund raising activities was the sale of Christmas cards. One of the things the organisation feared before it closed was that postage charges would rise and that in the rush by people to cut their own personal budget the sale of Christmas cards would fall. This organisation was afraid that the income it would raise from this method would fall. 
Finally it was hit with the abandonment this year of the Waratah Spring Festival, which meant that the art competition it invariably held was no longer available as a source of revenue for this year in particular. It was quite clear that in these times the deficit from which this organisation would suffer would grow, and it could see no source of income it would be able to substitute for that it lost. It approached the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  months ago and asked him whether a voluntary organisation of this sort would be able to appreciate in the Australian assistance plan and perhaps benefit from some grants in that area. Hoever, as we all know, it is not expected that grants of any real value will flow to voluntary organisations of this sort for a number of years because of the way in which this plan is proceeding, perhaps quite properly in terms of the way in which governments act and the way in which the Government may wish to postpone expenditure in very important areas. 
I know from my own involvement in the Provisional Committee in Parramatta that the social worker from the Family Welfare Bureau was endeavouring to assist in the promotion of that plan in the Parramatta district with a view to participation in it. Similar work had been done in the inner city area to endeavour to obtain support through the Australian assistance plan, but quite clearly there was no prospect of assistance in the short term that would enable this organisation to maintain itself. Some $20,000 would have been necessary for it to continue and to meet the prospective deficit that the organisers saw. They contacted the Minister for Social Security when the situation became desperate, and they sought assistance from the Government to enable the organisation to continue its important tasks. Although the late  Mrs Henry,  who I understand was one of the senior officers in the department in Sydney, discussed these matters at length with the senior officers of the Family Welfare Bureau, no means could be found whereby money could be made available for social workers to be maintained in their present positions and for this valuable organisation to be able to continue to exist. 
It may well be in the plan of this Government that voluntary organisations should be done away with and should be seen as being no longer important in the plan of things for providing and meeting welfare needs. If that is so, I suppose that the rather callous view that no moneys can be made available to get this organisation out of its situation is the proper view to be taken. Certainly I consider that that is the view of the Government when I see a situation such as that I have described. This organisation is closed. It cannot be revived. It may well be that other organisations will go the same way. Voluntary organisations are important. They privide a difference in the style of things in providing welfare needs. This difference is important in developing programs that might be able to accommodate problems that a rather fixed government style might not be able to handle.  Mr Speaker,  I believe it is a national disgrace that the Government failed to act to prevent the closure of this organisation- one that I suspect functioned in your electorate as well as mine. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Did he announce the new members of the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment on 1 August 1 974. 
If so, were these members chosen after hundreds of suggestions had been received from many organisations. 
If so, what organisations made suggestions and, in respect of each organisation, whom did they nominate including in the list both those appointed and those not appointed. 
Are members of the Committee paid; if so, what remuneration is received, and what provision has been made for payment of expenses. 
-I rise to restore, I hope, some sanity to this debate. We have heard some comments from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  both of whom have said that members of the Opposition are not really concerned about matters relating to the environment, meeting the problems of urban communities and solving the problems related to sewering metropolitan areas, regional areas and so on. I beg to say that there would not be anybody within the precincts of this Parliament who would not be concerned about sewerage and the needs for homes to be sewered, the health of the community and all the other matters that have been raised by each of the members from the Government side who have spoken before me. I would hasten to say that, even reading the speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  one would find little to disagree with in terms of the statements he makes about the nature of the problem. But what one disagrees with are the solutions that are offered by the Government, the approach that the Government takes to deal with the problem which we all acknowledge exists, and the methods it uses to deal with that problem. 
I am an unavowed federalist. I would have thought that members of the Government might well have thought of returning to that position themselves after last Saturday. I am sure the Minister read the 'Canberra Times' this morning, and I should not have to draw his attention that the local government elections took place in New South Wales last weekend. It may well be that with a change of council in Parramatta I will know more of what is going on in the Minister's Department than I have known in the past. The problem is- it has been demonstrated in Parramatta and in other areas around Sydney- that the sins of one political party in office are often visited upon other parties in office. The Government blurs distinctions between local government, State governments and the Federal Government and the responsibilties that each of them has. Labor representatives in Sydney have been visited with the mistakes of this Government, which has obviously failed to deal with the important problems that are facing us today. We no longer talk about defence and foreign affairs in this place. We no longer think about the problems of the economy. In many ways we are becoming bogged down in dealing with problems of the nature of that which we are discussing now. I am not trying to say that these things are unimportant, because they are important. They are important to the people. 
In my community, I am familiar with the areas that are not sewered, the pollution of the Parramatta River and so on. I can talk as glibly as others about the problems that are quite evident in my areas, but clearly what is needed is funds. We are talking about the terms on which those funds are made available. I believe that this Government should absolve itself of responsibility for how funds are spent and say to the State government or the local government authorities that have the constitional responsibilities for these problems: 'Here is the money. You spend it'. There may well be- I will refer to this matter a little later- particular areas in which a national government can assume a direct responsibility in limited way. 
I believe that the Government has failed to deal with the real problems that are facing the nation. We are dealing with many other matters which ought to be put into their right perspective. But as we have to discuss them on an occasion like this, I would like to make a number of observations particularly on the comments of the honourable member for Casey because he implied that some areas in communities like Sydney and Melbourne were not sewered because of the shortcomings of past Federal administrations of a different political persuasion. Clearly if one looks at the solutions now being offered by this Government one can see the same sort of shortcomings emerging. If one looks at inflation as an issue in relation to the cost of the authorities that have to build sewerage works it is quite clear that their costs are rising. They are not able as efficiently or as well to build the works with the amount of funds available to them in the past. That situation exists simply because the Government has failed to control inflation. 
There is an ancillary effect to this. Because of the high cost of raising money today, an authority like the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney, which would previously have expected to raise some $100m to enable it to carry out its own program of sewerage in Sydney, finds that it will probably have a substantial shortfall this year in the money that it expects to raise. If there is a shortfall in loan moneys because of the high cost of obtaining money on our community today, have we an undertaking from the Minister to underwrite the loans that are normally raised by such organisations as the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works themselves? If there are shortfalls of $30m or $40m because of the high cost of raising money to enable these efficient organisations to meet their own programs, will this Government step in and underwrite loans that the organisations would have raised themselves were it not for the parlous economic state which we are in? I ask him whether he will, when he has an opportunity to reply later, give some attention to that because amounts being allocated under this Bill will seem pretty small if the major constructing authorities are not able themselves to raise the money that they need to meet the programs to which they are already committed. It is not much good transferring the obligation from one authority to this Government and saying 'Look, we are good fellows; we are giving you X millions of dollars, as we are doing in this Bill, or $30m as we have given you before ', if the authorities do not have the funds available to them which they had in the past. 
We as members of the Opposition, are supporting this Bill and the allocation of funds, not because we believe it is the best way, but simply because it is the solution that the Government is offering. We believe there are better ways of solving the problem and I put it to the Government that the best way of doing so is to make available the money to the States and the local authorities, and to allow them to set their own priorities and to spend the money as they see it should be spent. They are the people who are best able to judge how it ought to be spent. Even though we say there is a better way to do this, it does not stop us from looking at the performance of the Government in relation to the promises which it has made. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development once more, as I did on the last occasion when I spoke on this legislation in December of last year, to the promise that the Labor Party made in its 1972 policy speech on the matter of sewerage. The policy speech states: 
A Labor government will immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth grants in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their areas by 1 978. 
We are well on the way to that time. This was a promise on which the Government was originally elected. Yet, in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development ran away from that promise when he said: 
We will try to meet the target date of 1 978 set by the Prime Minister but the State authorities have agreed - 
I think he might have asked them whether it would be possible for them to do it when he made such a promise: . . . that probably it will take until 1980 or the early 1980s to achieve our aim because of pressure on resources, both men and material. 
I am not saying that is not a real problem; I acknowledge that it is. Yet this Government came to office on the promise that it would achieve what it proposed by 1978. It ran away from that promise almost immediately it came to office. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who is sitting at the table, was the one who announced that it would not be possible to meet that undertaking. 
In the principal Act and in this Bill it is made clear that although the Commonwealth is lending the money to the States under this agreement, it is not borrowing that money and paying high rates of interest for it. I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 6 of the Bill that we are considering. This clause states that the Government is entitled to appropriate that money out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Clause 9 provides: ... the Treasurer may authorise the payment to that Fund, out of the Loan Fund . . . 
The Bill provides that in fact the money can be raised by loan. But the Government can swap the procedure around if it wants to; it seeks that sort of flexibility. So, this money will be coming from taxpayers' funds. Yet the State authorities must pay interest to the Commonwealth for it. 
In answer to a question asked in this place today the Minister for Urban and Regional Development told us of the magnitude of the debts that these authorities responsible for the provision of sewerage services have already. He told us that some $70m would be made available next year, again as loans. But to deal with criticisms of the type that I have made today and out of a grudging respect, I suppose, for the points which we have made in debates such as this about the need to make the grants as originally promised, he said that there will be a token grant of 30 per cent which is less than half of what local authorities are required to borrow by way of loan funds, even next year. This great program we heard announced in answer to a Dorothy Dix question this morning. 
New South Wales receives no money under this agreement. I interpret the reason to be that the New South Wales Government, the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Hunter District Drainage Board each budgeted correctly, set out a program, and kept within the obligation that each assumed to spend the moneys that were available. The Minister, I note, indicates in his second reading speech that the Government had carefully assessed the impact of these programs on manpower and material resources and that most of the work had already been completed and therefore would involve no significant pressure on resources. Quite clearly from the speech it becomes apparent that the moneys that are being made available are to make up the excess of expenditure over and above the grants originally made to each of the other States. So, we are not seeing any additional moneys in fact being made available to provide additional sewerage works through these grants proposed by the legislation. 
We hear a great deal at the moment about unemployment. I understand that the Government is suffering some anguish about this matter although I do not know, if I raise this issue, how the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would treat me or whether my comments might be seen as - 
I want shortly, if I may, to make a number of comments in relation to a matter of research on which I was elaborating earlier. I believe that the limited funds made available to the various State authorities, such as the Melbourne and Metro.politan Board of Works and the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, for sewerage works indicate that it is beyond their capacity to engage in what I see as a very important need for the development of a national - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have any Communists been appointed to boards of statutory corporations, advisory committees or commissions of inquiry. 
If so, how many, what are their names, and to what positions have they been appointed. 
It is a pleasure to follow the very eloquent contributions that we have heard today. I refer particularly to the eloquent contribution of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who raised some very pertinent matters in regard to the taxation system, the very eloquent comments of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  and the most practical comments of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  I was somewhat surprised to hear the comment of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  that he was not ashamed to promulgate the virtues of this Budget.' ! was of the view that the only place' honourable members opposite were prepared to promulgate its virtues now was in this House. In fact, I wonder if they dare go on the hustings and promulgate the virtue of it anywhere else. Certainly with the chopping and changing that we have seen to date one would wonder- "where its virtues are when it has had to be changed so radically in such a short time and before the discussion on the Budget has yet concluded in the national Parliament. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  He has accepted a responsibility in respect of this nation and has brought to public attention the matters that we all know and hear about as we go from place to place and as expressed in the very firm terms that we see in his amendment. That amendment expresses the concern of the Australian people for our future and our welfare. The amendment bears repeating because it covers the very important matters that face this nation. The amendment states: this House is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis, in that: 
1 ) unemployment is permitted to grow and the prospect for school leavers is prejudiced, 
) inflation is accelerated, 
existing poverty is ignored and new poverty is created, 
personal income tax is increased by 45 percent, 
5 ) living standards will be lowered, 
private enterprise is stifled, 
7 ) Government power is further centralised, 
individual incentive and thrift is penalised, and 
a double tax is levied on estates; 
I support the amendment because of the state of the economy in Australia at present and because this Budget that we have before us, although it tersely acknowledges the problems, in no way sets out to solve them. In fact, the Budget indicates that because it has no answer and the Government has no answers to these problems the Government should push on regardless with its social program which is incapable of implementation because of the very nature of the problems that we have before us. I refer honourable members to the first few lines of the Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  He said: 
We share with all our major trading partners problems of economic management unparalleled in modern times. 
It is a very serious statement. Even though the Treasurer acknowledges the strains which our nation suffers, he gives us only a simple Budget setting. The Treasurer does not mention in any detail a program to deal with inflation or a program that will develop Australia for the futurethat will plan a national situation in which businesses, individuals and workers can see thenlife styles and can plan accordingly the way in which they can advance themselves. There is no setting in which a business, a worker or any other person can advance himself or see the way in which he will advance himself in the future.  
The attitude of the Minister who preceded me in this debate, the Minister for the Capital Territory was to ask the Opposition what it would do if it were in government and to ask where the Opposition would cut expenditure. I have heard this sort of attitude expressed continually in this debate. Honourable members opposite have spoken as if we were the Government, as though we had the responsibility for making these decisions and as though we were the people who had to put these decisions into effect. That is not the case. If the present Government runs its full term in office it should introduce a number of other Budgets after this one. One is entitled to look at the Budget, not at what the Opposition is doing. The Opposition is not the Government at this time and does not have the responsibility to advance an alternative. It is not that the Opposition is not capable of advancing an alternative. 
When one examines expenditure of this nature and the matters that are dealt with, be they education, social reform- particularly the Australian assistance plan which is something I personally commend- or urban development and sewerage, one is reminded of the position of an individual. When I go home to my wife she seems always to want more money because she wants to do something- perhaps she would like to buy a new dress or buy something for our little daughter. The Australian community is in no different position to this. I have to tell her that we cannot do it at this time because we have to plan for the future. Why should not a government be any different to this? Why should not a government have ordered priorities? Each honourable member opposite criticises the Opposition because our priorities might be ordered. In effect, the Government asks the Opposition which one of the Government's projects which it cannot afford we would cut out. That is not a responsible approach. It is a most irresponsible approach from a government. Yet this is what we see. 
Often in debates in this House we hear the 'Financial Review' being quoted. Recently, it has been quoted more than it has been quoted for a long time. I do not know why. I would like to quote from an editorial that deals with Government spending. The 'Financial Review' seems to receive the imprimatur of approval from this Government. That editorial of 26 September 1974 in the 'Financial Review' stated: 
If the Government wishes to invest its decision to devalue the Australian dollar with any vestige of economic responsibility it has to drastically recast its Budget of last week. 
In the face of such a decision arrived at largely on the basis of political pressures the Government, to preserve some semblance of economic sanity, has to cut back the rate of growth in public sector spending outlined in the Budget. 
Considering that the Government felt no compunction in ditching its Budget strategy by its move on the currency question this should be an insurmountable hurdle. 
I would endorse those comments as I think every honourable member on this side of the House would endorse them. I even heard the Minister for the Capital Territory cite the 'Financial Review' as an authority. 
-The Minister indicated quite clearly that it was a document upon which he was relying to make his point. It is a document which can be quoted quite validly to support the proposition I am now putting forward. I am glad the Minister is still in the House because I would like him to hear what I have to say. I saw a Press statement issued by the Minister a few weeks ago. I was rather amazed that he would state this position in such clear terms. In that Press statement he said: 
For the first time in Australian history, the education allocation exceeded that spent on defence . . . but, at the same time, we have protected the traditional importance of defence expenditure. 
Quite clearly, the Budget indicates that that is not the case. I will deal with the matter of defence in a short while. I was rather surprised tonight to hear the Minister for the Capital Territory say that .this was a symbol of the Government's priorities. I will read Hansard tomorrow because I hope for the sake of Australia that that comment is publicised throughout Australia as a statement of priorities of the Government. Then the Government will be recognised for what it is. In these nationally uncertain times defence cannot have that sort of priority. I am shocked as I think most young people would be shocked to learn that the Government has these priorities in relation to defence. 
-That has nothing to do with it. The fact is that in this world when we have a food crisis or a crisis concerning the sources of energy, it is not hard to imagine a situation in which the threats that we may suffer from could be much greater than they have ever been before. I have not yet seen a statement produced by the Government affirming a previous comment that Australia did not have any foreseeable threat in the next 15 years. I would like to know what the Government's advisers on defence say about the situation now. I would like to see a defence statement that sets out priorities. The Australian people should be aware of such priorities. I believe that if a statement were prepared by the Government's advisers concerning defence problems and the uncertain future that our nation faces it would be a frightening statement in the eyes of the Australian people. It would highlight in their minds the way in which this Government is ignoring defence, allowing our defence forces to run down and really jeopardising the future not just of the young people but of families like mine. I will not go on from that, because that comment does not seem to worry the Government very much, but it is of great importance. 
I deal now with the economic problems that we face today. Wherever I have gone- I have been to Tasmania, like many other members have of late- I have become aware of the great concern that is being expressed throughout this country about our future. As I walked down a street in Parramatta recently- this does not happen very often- a person pulled me in off the street and said: 'I am sorry, Philip, to do this to you, but I have real problems. I will be out of business next week'. I propose shortly to quote from some letters I have received which indicate the same thing. The problems that are facing people are very realistic problems in their minds. They warrant the concern of this House and warrant a Budget that would deal with them. As the Budget has demonstrated clearly, there has been a failure to plan for the future in terms of dealing with unemployment and inflation; yet such a plan is what the Australian people require immediately. The Leader of the Opposition produced a speech on the Budget which set out national objectives. I refer honourable members to these comments: 
The construction of a Budget each year should be based on the economic and social conditions of the nation, not just for the 12 months ahead, but for the years beyond. A Budget should have both short and long term consequences. It should be a major platform of a national government aimed at the achievement of the nation's objectives. By that measure, this Budget fails our destiny. Our national objectives are now endangered. Instead of progressing steadily towards them, we are slipping back. 
I have not heard honourable members quote that passage. I think it is one deserving of their thought. It prompted me to think about the nature of this Budget. 
It was not so long ago, 1972, when a Budget was produced by members who now sit on the Opposition side of the House. I do not propose to quote from the speech that the present Leader of the Opposition made on that occasion, although one honourable member on the other side of the House did. It is pertinent. I read the speech of the then Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Prime Minister as he now is. I felt that it was worth looking at his speech to see what he was saying then about the nature of a budget. I direct honourable members opposite to read that speech, because so much of what is being said now, although not quoted directly from that speech, is what the Prime Minister was saying ought to be done by a government. These comments seem so pertinent, do they not? I quote from page 510 of Hansard of August 1972. The present Prime Minister then said: 
Last year's Budget was presented as the ultimate in all economic wisdom. So, of course, was this year's. Last year there was even a proud declaration headed: 'The Budget Strategy '. It proclaimed in ringing tones: 
We see it as a critically important objective of our policy to combat the inflationary forces now running in our economy. 
This Budget sets out no strategy. The comparable heading this year is reduced to a modest 'Philosophy and Objectives' - 
That is far more fitting than the heading 'The Budget Setting' that we see in the Budget before us- though philosophy or objectives are hard indeed to discover. Instead of a declaration of war against inflation, or unemployment, we are merely told confidentially: 'In looking at the year ahead the government has in mind a number of considerations'. This relatively modest tone, this retreat from rhetoric, is I suppose the most we can hope for; the nearest we can hope to get to a confession of failure from the Treaurer. On his own admission, he has failed in what he called 'the critically important objective to combat inflationary forces'. 
How apt these comments are. 
He says now: 'A modest abatement of inflationary trends has been achieved'. How modest is shown by comparing this year's Speech with last year's. In last year's Speech he said: 'By the June quarter of 1971 the underlying rate of increase in prices was above 6 per cent'. Last Tuesday he said: 'In the year to the June quarter of 1972 the increase was still far too high at 6. 1 per cent'. Some reduction! Some achievement! 
Where are the interjections now from the honourable members opposite, as we near a rate of inflation of some 14 per cent which is likely to be some 20 per cent, about the sorts of problems that we face now? The Prime Minister's comments seemed so apt on that occasion perhaps. How much more apt do they seem to honourable members opposite now? 
I am ashamed that I can come into this House as a new member and have to debate a document that clearly has no intention of dealing with the problems that we will face in the future. We are debating a budget that talks about tax concessions in the most remarkable terms. I refer honourable members to the Treasurer's statements on page 30 of the Budget Speech. He spoke so glibly about these matters when he said: 
Taken together, our tax measures constitute major reforms. They will make the tax system fairer and more equitable. The great majority of wage and salary earners, and especially low-income single-income families, will pay less tax as a result. 
I suppose that the voices of honourable members opposite will herald that as well as a major reform. 
I would like to refer them back to the speech of the Prime Minister from which I quoted. Perhaps the reason why they are so silent now is that they recall his words then about taxation. In the time remaining to me I would like to quote the Prime Minister's remarks. On page 5 12 of the House of Representatives Hansard of August 1972 the Prime Minister is recorded as saying: 
A mere reduction in the rate of tax increase is not real redistribution of the tax burden. 
What a magnificent comment that is from the man who leads the Government that has introduced such a Budget as we are now debating and has made so little reform. He is the man who criticised, quite aptly perhaps, what I believe were major attempts to bring about a major change in our tax structure at that time. In his speech the Prime Minister said: 
Nothing has been done to attack the real problem of middle income earners paying taxes at rates set for high income earners. The equivalent of $5,000 18 years ago was a high income; it is an exceptionally modest income today. But the $5,000 a year man today is taxed as if he were the wealthy man of 18 years ago- because the system remains unchanged. 
It remains unchanged today. He continued: 
The new scales just do not attack that fundamental problem. Yet there are commanding economic reasons why such an attack should have been made this year. 
An attack should have been made this year, but it was not. We saw in this Budget an attempt to stifle thrift with a most iniquitous super-tax or surcharge on so-called unearned income. Other proposed taxes will stifle initiative. The Prime Minister himself by his own tax planning in sending his wife out to work has demonstrated quite clearly that the only lurk left is to have 2 income earners in the family and to have an income division. I defend  Mrs Whitlam  's right to earn money. I defend her against the criticism of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
In what areas (suburbs, municipalities or regions) have meetings been convened to establish committees for the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Who convened the meetings in each case. 
Which of these persons were Members of Parliament (State or Federal), local government officers or officials. 
Who was responsible for issuing invitations to the meetings. 
Have any instructions been prepared indicating who should be invited to attend the meetings; if so, what are these instructions. 
Has the Social Welfare Commission taken any part in ensuring that any organisations interested in matters of community welfare are invited and involved. 
What committees or organisations have received grants to date in relation to the Australian Assistance Plan, and what is the nature and purpose of these grants. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received requests for Government aid to assist in establishing and expanding the activities of the Playgroup Association of New South Wales. 
If so, (a) what is the nature and extent of the aid requested by the State Association and (b) what aid has the Government given to the Playgroup Association to date. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. This is the first opportunity I have had to rise since remarks were made about me last night during the adjournment debate by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He made a personal attack on me, crediting me with views of third parties, which views neither represent those held by me nor could they in any way be associated with me either by reference to the only factual matter raised by the honourable member last evening or to any other statements made by me at any other time. The honourable member's reflections on me by innuendo have brought nothing but discredit upon him. The only factual matter raised by the honourable member was in relation to a statement from the Parramatta 'Advertiser' of 9 October. It stated: 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. The implication in the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  just now was that he was requiring in his concluding remarks last night that I dissociate myself from  Mr Butler.  That certainly was not the purport of his remarks. If one reads carefully from Hansard one finds that he was suggesting that if he does not speak for the whole of his Party his Parry dissociates itself from him, the implication being that the Liberal Party ought to dissociate itself from me. The honourable member, in his personal explanation, has not in any way dealt with the very serious matters that I raised. He has called upon me to dissociate myself from a Young Liberals branch yet no serious allegations have been made which can be substantiated against that branch except that it was prepared, with an" open mind, to hear some other person's views whether I like them or whether I do not. I indicated for my own part that the alleged views of that gentleman certainly do not reflect my views and I would in no way support them. An apology has not yet been forthcoming to me for the very clear statements that were made that those views were mine and which have been shown to be based on serious misstatements of fact. If the matter could be referred to the Privileges Committee I would certainly ask that that be done. I will very carefully look at the matter to see whether the honourable member can be dealt with for having failed to tender an apology after these very serious allegations. 
Although it may seem unusual in relation to estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to be discussing matters relating to child care, such is now the case. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has assumed the responsibility for matters relating to child care. I intend to refer specifically to the appropriation of $187,000 to establish an interim committee for the Children's Commission. Child care undoubtedly is a very important matter. This is recognised, I believe, by members on both sides of the chamber. There is a great and growing concern in the community that child care should, firstly, be made available to those people who have a real need but ought to be available also to any woman and to any family wishing to have facilities for minding their children if those people wish to be employed or wish to exercise some freedom of choice in regard to working or undertaking other activities. 
I am not complaining that moneys are allocated for child care or for child care facilities. I note that in the Budget an appropriation of $75m was made for child care. It is important to observe the rather brief history that we have seen in this area. It is of some anguish to me. Honourable members will recall that in 1972 the Child Care Act was introduced into this Parliament. Certain development was undertaken and certain programs were developed to meet special needs. I note particularly the special needs in the Dundas Valley in my own electorate that were being met. The Telopea Church of Christ was establishing a child care centre with a grant pursuant to this Act. Unfortunately the area was not clear from the point of view of what would happen and what programs would be developed. We saw a multitude of reports. We saw firstly, the Fry report of the Pre-Schools Committee. Secondly, we saw the report of the Social Welfare Commission and more recently and thirdly, the report of the Priorities Review Staff. It was certainly clear that the Government did not know where it was going, did not know what programs it wished to adopt and did not know which Ministers should be responsible for the administration of programs. The Priorities Review Staff report was designed to tie together a lot of these loose ends and problems and to reach a solution. The solution offered was to set up another commission, another committee. Honourable members will recall that on 22 July it was indicated that the proposed programs for child care promised in the April policy speech of the Prime Minister could not be introduced. In fact it was said that they would be postponed until 1975-76 in terms of the administration of the Government's promises in the policy speech of the Prime Minister in April 1974. 
As a result of the great public concern the Government became aware of the need to review its policies in this area once more. We therefore saw in this Budget the grant of $75m, presumably to meet the need. But although the need is there and is evident to everybody, the program was not available. There was no program to be administered. So the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is now in the chamber presumably to deal with these matters, made a ministerial statement on 19 September in which he detailed the reasons for the establishment of the Children's Commission. What he said was that an interim committee would be formed ultimately to establish the Commission which will take over responsibility for administering all existing commitments in the areas of child care and pre-schools, and will immediately set to work to enable a substantial beginning to be made on the new program no later than January 1975. I think that statement made it quite clear that there was no program to be administered and that an organisation had to be created to bring into operation a program to meet the great public demand that I know exists. 
But what has been the effect of the establishment of another commission? 
I draw the attention of honourable members to a report titled 'Social Issues News Statement' by the Brotherhood of St. Laurence commenting on the child care proposals. In paragraph 3 the author of the statement, David Scott, states: 
The creation of another commission outside existing departments will further fragment social policy making and the administration of child care and family welfare programs. It will also create a precedent for establishing other commissions with executive functions to provide services for other age groups or people with specific categories of handicap. The trend should be to integrate and not fragment family and child care programs. 
He went on to say: 
The Government should be aware of the  difficulties  created by a semi-autonomous commission with policy making functions which has to rely on Public Service departments to implement its policies. This division of responsibility leads to delays, confusion, cumbersome procedures and can encourage misunderstandings and conflicts between the policy making commission and the executive departments. 
He concluded by saying: 
If the Government proceeds on its present course of action, it will fragment policy making and administration, create confusion and slow down the introduction of urgently needed, locally-based child care services. 
It has become evident from the way in which this program is being administered in my own electorate that the real problems are being overlooked and this commission is being used as a means to fob off important developments that ought to be occurring. I mention the first child care centre that was to have been established in my electorate in the Dundas Valley at Telopea, a housing commission area which certainly has self-evident and widely acknowledged social problems. This centre was designed by the Telopea Church of Christ and in accordance with standards supervised formerly by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  A grant was made available. This worthy group of people that is endeavouring to open a child care facility in January of next year has found that it is almost impossible for a church working in the area with limited facilities to be able to gather together the funds necessary for it to commence operations from the completed centre. The group sought through a letter to the Minister for Education, who was formerly responsible for the administration of these programs, a grant for the establishment of personnel in the centre. When I talk of a grant for the establishment I mean funds to meet the costs in the initial period before fees and before the government subsidies that will be payable towards the salaries of officers start to flow to the church committee. Of course the obvious answer in the past was that an organisation such as this that would receive government funds by way of subsidy should go to a bank and get an overdraft to see it through. 
As Reverend J. Bacik for the management committee of the Telopea Church of Christ Child Care Centre has pointed out, it is not possible in the present economic climate for the organisation to go to its bank and to borrow funds for this purpose. The application to the Minister for Education- I believe it was back in July- for an establishment grant has been fobbed off, by a reply which stated that there is no provision under the present Act whereby such grants could be made available. The Telopea Church of Christ wrote to the Special Minister of State on 4 October and mentioned specifically the problem that it is suffering. The answer received to date is that this matter has been referred to the interim committee. This child care centre has to be operating by next January. I believe there is no way that a committee or a commission not directly responsible to this Parliament can act fast enough when matters are referred to it for report in this way, and bring about a situation where the child care centre in Telopea and the many others that are seeking to be operational next year will be able to function and be functioning to meet these urgent needs that are evident to us all. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Social Welfare Commission established committees to inquire into various matters. 
If so, what specific committees of inquiry have been established to date. 
What reports, both interim and final, has the Government received from these committees. 
If any interim or final reports have been received by the Government, when will they be tabled for consideration by Members. 
-There is no doubt in the minds of most thinking Australians that transport is an important matter. It is a matter that affects us all in our daily lives and it is a matter on which we all appoint ourselves as experts in view of the fact that it bears upon our life in our electorates and in our travelling to and from this place. To my mind, notwithstanding the urgent need that we all see to meet the transport needs of our community, this Parliament is not the place where minor transport matters ought to be discussed, nor should it be the place where decisions about transport are in fact made. It diverts our attention from the important national matters that are facing this country and that are demanding our attention. It ignores the expertise that has been accumulated in the States, which have had the responsibility since Federation for dealing with matters relating to transport, and public transport in particular. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the problems that the States have in meeting all the needs that are evident to us all results from the problems that the States have in raising sufficient funds to meet those needs. They relate to the methods we use and have adopted in the past in relation to the sharing of revenue raised by the Commonwealth. 
Today the public of Australia would probably not be aware of the amount of time that honourable members, members like myself, spend in dealing with such trivial matters as the transport improvements and traffic engineering proposals that ought to be made, for instance, in the Parramatta area. I am not saying that such proposals are not important for Parramatta and are not important for the people who live in the electorate. Undoubtedly they are, and the reason I have raised them with the Minister is that now funds are being made available through the Commonwealth Government for traffic improvements. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said recently in a letter to me, over 3 years New South Wales is to receive $7. 9m for traffic engineering and road safety improvements. Somebody might say: 'Is this not marvellous? This is the money that is being made available for traffic improvements in New South Wales, and you ought to compliment the Government on having made this decision'. 
It may be a compliment that moneys were made available for this purpose, but in my view it is not a compliment to the system- a system which means that members like myself are invited to make proposals. I have done so, and I have no doubt that all other honourable members, having been invited to make suggestions and being as familiar as they ought to be with their own localities, have made suggestions. But in my submission these matters ought to be left in the hands of a State government and in the hands of State members, people who represent smaller electorates than we do and who are readily able to make the submissions. I believe there ought to be a clear division of responsibility and not a duplication of responsibility. We are now expected to become experts in every possible area. 
I asked the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service to provide some figures. They may be invalid in terms of direct comparison but I think the point can be made from them. I asked the Library to extract material in relation to the financial results of government railways. I do not know whether the Minister would be prepared to allow me to incorporate them in Hansard. The figures show the results for each of the railways up to the year 1971- 72 and for Victoria and Queensland up to 1972- 73. They indicate that New South Wales had a deficit of $32m, Victoria $54m, Queensland $30m, South Australia $25m, Western Australia $12m, Tasmania $7m, and amazingly enough the Commonwealth Railways in the year 1972-73 $3m and more recently in 1973- 74, from the reports tabled by the Minister in this Parliament, $6.9m. I seek leave for the table to be incorporated. 
I propose to address my question to the Treasurer. It is about Air Niugini. I wish to make it clear that my question intends no reflection on the Government of Papua New Guinea, its agencies, or the action being taken by them. Is the Treasurer aware that Air Niugini has written to suppliers in Australia saying that: . . . as from 3 1 October 1 974 Air Niugini will no longer be forwarding . . . instruments - to Australia for overhaul? This letter in particular comments: 
We regret the necessity of having to take this action but due to the escalating costs in Australia and the uncertainty of supply and other matters beyond the control of all of us, we find it necessary to terminate our work in the Australian area. 
We thank you for your assistance in the past and hope that when the industrial climate in Australia becomes more stable, we may be able to renew our association. 
If inflation is a worldwide phenomenon, why is it that Australia has lost its competitiveness in world markets? Is this not another indication of the seriousness of inflation in Australia and the need for the Government to indicate clearly when it will announce a full program to meet the need to control inflation? 
It seems to be the vogue in this debate today to offer one's congratulations to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  I suppose I could offer the Minister my congratulations for being able to do the best possible job with an absolute botch of a job by the Government. One could certainly look at the number of Press statements he has issued on this subject since the problems have become evident- so evident, in fact, that one is able to draw certain conclusions from the remarks of honourable members opposite who have spoken in this debate to date. It is pertinent to note that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  spoke a little earlier, as did the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  I do not believe that any of those honourable members will be a member of this chamber in the next Parliament. It is more pertinent to observe that the Government then brought into the debate the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  We heard from him an attempt to perpetuate class warfare in this community by implying that it was honourable members on this side of the chamber and the interests we represent who had caused the problem with which we are faced today. Each honourable member opposite attempted to make excuses by saying to the voters in their electorates who might be listening to the debate today: 'We are terribly sorry, but it is not really our fault. We have inherited it. It was the dreadful LiberalCountry Party Government which provided homes in this community for 23 years which failed you. When it went out of office it left a legacy which you are continuing to reap today even though we are the people in office and the people responsible for making these decisions'. In that respect we have had a series of Press statements -admirable Press statements- from the Minister each reiterating the same thing. He issued Press statements on 27 September- in fact he issued two on that day- and 30 September, 4 October, 11 October and 16 October each saying: 'We have come up with the answer. We are going to push in a bit more money'. What is the reason for the Government having to act in this way, in a stop-go manner? It is clear from the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that the building problems we have in our community today were initiated by the Government. The Treasurer said at the commencement of his Budget Speech: 
The Government acted decisively to ease the excess pressures on the economy prevalent during most of 1 973-74. 
I could take honourable members on to a letter I received from the Treasurer in answer to a request from me that he look into the situation of a particular builder who had been driven out of business by the Government's policies. In it he said: 
The Government's policies over the past 18 months have been directed towards reducing the excessive availability of housing finance ... 
Who reduced the availability of such finance? It was not the Liberal-Country Party Coalition. Yet that is one of the inherited problems we are hearing about at the moment. The Treasurer went on to say that that situation was now being alleviated. He also said: 
These measures are designed to bring to fruition our aims in the field of welfare housing . . . 
I would like to direct to the attention of honourable members the purposes the Government has in mind. If honourable members turn through the Treasurer's Budget Speech a little further they will find that the Government's answer- it is one I fear the most- is in terms of the Australian Housing Corporation. The Government intends to bring to fruition policies in the field of welfare housing. Its intention is to take away from the young people in our community the right and the opportunity to be able to buy their own homes and to substitute the Government. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
The Government proposes to introduce as soon as possible legislation to establish an Australian Housing Corporation to undertake all of those housing functions for which the Australian Government has constitutional power. This will include direct lending by the Corporation to families for housing. 
The Treasurer said that the sum of $2Sm was to be provided this year. That is what is happening. We have the undertaking now by the Government of lending functions. It turned off the tap and it now wants to undertake those functions itself. The consequences are that we now have growing unemployment in the building industry. 
In accordance with an agreement reached, I must terminate my remarks now so that other people may address themselves to this debate. I propose to do so now. It is pertinent to note, in the breakdown of statistics for unemployment in recent years up to September 1974, the increase which has occurred under this Government. With respect to skilled people in the building and construction works area, in 1971 there were 1,995 unemployed; in September 1972, 2,281; in September 1973, 1,151; and in September 1974, 3,290. This is a human problem. It is a problem on which this Government has failed and failed dismally. The Minister may be a nice fellow. I certainly have had no difficulty with him. Notwithstanding his character and the manner in which Government supporters compliment him, the Government has failed and he, like the Government, must wear that fact. 
It is a pleasure to follow in this debate the 2 thoughtful contributions that we heard earlier from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and more recently from the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I was particularly pleased to hear the most helpful comments on overseas trends made by the honourable member for Scullin and his reference to the attitude overseas to environmental studies and statements. Equally I was very pleased to hear the contribution of the honourable member for Gwydir in relation to the Department of the Environment and Conservation and his reference to the way in which the Department perhaps should be organised in terms of the Government's structure. 
I propose to address my comments in part to the estimates of that Department and to draw certain generalisations from those estimates. In particular I propose to talk about grants to organisations and some of the administrative expenses of that Department. I note that the submission by the Department of Urban and Regional Development to the National Estate Task Force Inquiry includes a contribution by  Dr D.  F. McMichael on the role of the Department of the Environment and Conservation. In expounding on that theme, this statement was made, amongst others: 
This  Department's  role generally has been conceived of as being that of a policy  formulator  rather than as a management or enforcement body. It sees itself as an 'environmental advocate' to the Government, which remains as the decision-maker. It is stated to have no ambitions towards resource management. 
I do not know whether the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  accepts that statement as being representative of the attitude that his Department ought to be taking now. But I am somewhat concerned when I learn of the allocations made in these estimates to administer the contents of certain Bills that will later be before the Parliament for debate. I refer in particular to the legislation that will allocate moneys for the acquisition of parks. However, in the latter case, I understand that a very close relationship is envisaged between this Government and the States in the way in which moneys will be allocated. But the same standards are not proposed in respect of moneys which will be allocated in the terms of other legislation before the Parliament. 
I wish to mention specifically the expertise that has been developed especially in the State of New South Wales through the National Parks and Wildlife Service. I am sure that the New South Wales Government was complimented when it discovered that the Commonwealth found it necessary to draw the Permanent Head of the new Department of the Environment and Conservation from the New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife Service. I think that is an indication of the expertise which had been developed in that area. It is a pity therefore when shortly thereafter one sees statements by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, who is at the table, supporting people who are outside government and outside until recently even roles in respect of this Government in terms of its own commission although the gentleman to whom I will refer I understand, for a short time held certain offices under the Crown. On 9 November 1973, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, referring to the imposing of green bans by the New South Wales Builders Labourers Federation, said that these were immensely effective and ought to be supported by every Australian who cared about the environment. I was disappointed to learn that people outside government ought to be looked to for this sort of activity. I do not see that as being in the role of an advocate as promised by  Dr McMichael  in his earlier statements. I regret very much that we must submit to people of this sort in respect of the attitude and approach that they take to responsible governments and responsible decisions which are being made by governments. 
However, I wish to go on to indicate that while I see a very strong role for the State governments I am very disappointed that, although the States are to be or may be directed by the provisions of the legislation proposed as to how they will spend money and how they will perform in the future, when we come to areas where the Commonwealth has its own responsibilities, we find that it has been a little more tardy. I refer particularly to the very belated proposals that we are only now learning of for the establishment of the foreshores national park in Sydney. Whilst I appreciate the difficulties under which the Government may labour in arriving at suitable arrangements for swapping land with the State governments, I am very disappointed at the delay which has occurred. These negotiations were under way when the former Government lost office in 1 972. 
I commend to the Minister's attention, while talking of defence properties that have ceased to have a value in real terms, the properties owned by the Department of Defence at Ermington and, I think, at Silverwater and also the Newington armaments and explosive depot which is across the Parramatta River from my own electorate. That armaments depot, according to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  when he was acting Minister for Defence, poses a threat to my electorate by its very existence in terms of the safety arcs that are necessary to maintain it there. It is very close to a petrochemical plant and a large-scale housing commission development. It is in an area short of national park facilities, playing grounds and so forth. It is an area that the Department could examine in order to assess whether it could provide additional parks. 
I note that it is proposed to allocate the sum of $448,000 in grants to conservation organisations. Can the Minister assure me that the Australian Conservation Foundation will receive satisfactory funds for its outstanding efforts in the conservation pool? Will a substantial sum of the money provided be allocated to that organisation? What other organisations will receive grants? It is a pity when we have so many organisations trying to raise funds for national park facilities- I instance the Carlingford South Rocks Bushland Trust- that the Government should consider removing the taxation deduction scheme in respect of gifts and grants to such organisations. This concession should be maintained to encourage community involvement in developing our national park facilities. 
Possibly we will not have an opportunity to speak to Appropriation Bill (No. 2) wherein mention is made of a national environment awareness program. We have heard much comment from Goverment supporters about where the Opposition would trim expenditure if it were returned to government. When I see expenditure of the magnitude proposed for advertising programs I am surprised that Government supporters make such a point about where expenditure could be cut. Clearly there are many areas where money is being lavished, quite unjustifiably in my opinion. I note that an additional sum of $16,000 is allocated for advertising under the heading relating to administration expenses. I understand also that a further $11,000 is to be allocated for advertising for top level positions. This seems rather an excessive sum in these difficult times. A sum of $35,000 is proposed for meeting the costs associated with public hearings on impact statements. Whilst these statements are important, I do not believe that public hearings should be duplicated. Various bodies, such as the Public Works Committee of this Parliament and statutory authorities in other States, investigate matters affecting the environment and I am concerned lest delays occur through the duplication of hearings. Public hearings by another body should be rather reticently looked to as being necessary when we have so many other parliamentary bodies like the Public Accounts Committee and State authorities examining the same proposals. Can the Minister indicate what inquiries the body will be conducting this year? 
Finally, I direct the Minister's attention to the urgent need to develop a school for teaching environmental law because I believe that lawyers should be trained to intervene more in these matters and it would be - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is a pleasure to be able to lead in this debate on these very important estimates. I wish to raise a number of matters in the short time available to me. If I do not appear to start by complimenting the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  it is not because of a lack of understanding of the good things that have come from the program of urban and regional development but because of the important aspects that I must cover in the limited amount of time. 
I should like to draw the attention of this Committee particularly to the part of the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development which provide for an increase of some 2,250 per cent in expenditure this year on publicity for that Department and its programs over and above the amount that was allocated last year. I suppose that if we were to say that Government expenditure was increasing to that degree in other areas we would be looked upon as being unreasonable critics of this Government and its programs. I submit that the sum of $450,000 allocated for official publications and publicity is excessive and quite inappropriate for this Department and the needs that it is intended to meet. I note that for members of the other House some information was provided about this sum of money. It was indicated that the money was for public information programs designed to increase public understanding of urban issues and to broaden public support for urban and regional development programs. I am somewhat surprised, if these programs require this sum, that the Minister can come before this 
Committee and say, as he has said so often, that these are programs that are demanded by the public to meet real community needs. If that were so, this sum of money surely would not be necessary. 
I want to cover shortly my philosophical approach to urban and regional development. I should like to draw to the attention of honourable members an amount of $241,000 provided in these estimates for travelling and subsistence. That is not the only amount of money provided for travelling and subsistence, I note; but it is the only heading under which I could identify it. Under the other headings dealing with the Cities Commission and the Holsworthy investigatory project the estimates are not detailed sufficiently for me to be able to do so. But in the case of Albury-Wodonga an additional $65,000 is allocated for travelling and subsistence. That is a total of more than $300,000 in the 2 areas I have mentioned. My submission is that this sum of money would not be necessary if the programs were left to the people who are best able to administer them and to deal with them; that is, the States. Quite clearly, while there is an urgent need for moneys to be spent quite properly in the area of urban and regional development, in the area of rejuvenation of our cities and in the area of sewerage, the priorities are best set by the States and they are best equipped to deal with them. In my submission $300,000 would be saved by this Government if the States were left to make these sorts of decisions. Of course, it may well be that money for transport, fares and so on would have to be paid, but it would amount to nowhere near the sum that has been allocated for travelling and subsistence if a proper approach were taken. 
I should like to deal shortly with a matter I raised in my maiden speech. I spoke about the regions concept about which we have heard very little of late but which is still adopted by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I point out that local government for one has not co-operated in the determination of these regions. I point out also that, as in the case of that other area of social welfare, the Australian Assistance Plan, the Minister's policy almost falls upon barren ground because of disputes that have arisen over the boundaries that are being forced upon local committees under this plan for regions that was put before the Parliament last year. The submission I made on the last occasion was that quite clearly far more could be done in the area of urban development if we did not have these fixed regions which are quite inflexible. 
I want once again to draw attention to an urgent local need with which I am sure the Minister is familiar, being the member for one of the electorates adjoining my own electorate of Parramatta, and that is in relation to the Parramatta River. I note that the National Trust received a grant under last year's estimates and is to receive a grant again this year. This organisation has done a great deal to highlight the urgent need for regeneration of the Parramatta River. Some moneys were spent in an ad hoc way under last year's Budget and estimates. Moneys were allocated under the western suburbs area improvement scheme. But the matter has been dealt with in an ad hoc way. I want to put before the Minister again the need for him to assist in the formation of a Parramatta River commmission  an organisation which would not be established in the terms of these fixed regional boundaries but would require a variable region. It would involve the councils bordering the river and the New South Wales Department of Local Government, the New South Wales Department of Public Works, the Maritime Services Board, the National Trust, and like organisations. Such a commission could prepare a detailed' plan that could then be advanced and have money made available for it through the western suburbs area improvement scheme or some other area improvement scheme. 
I also express to the Minister my concern at the proposed reduction in the payments to the States and local authorities. At page 81 the Budget Papers state that the amount provided under the western area improvement scheme is to be reduced from the $Sm allocated last year to $4m this year. I am very disappointed at this reduction. I thought that the western suburbs area improvement scheme, although it had shortcomings and did not meet all the needs, was admirable. But clearly the amount is to be reduced, although money is to be made available in other areas. The western suburbs about which we have heard so much are to suffer to enable money to be made available to other areas. 
-The Budget Papers reveal it. Perhaps the Minister can satisfy me later when he replies. I would value his comments. I do consider it an important scheme and one that ought to be advanced, although not in the fixed way envisaged by the Minister. I want to deal with a proposal, which has been advanced within the local community in my district, for the establishment of a Parramatta community centre. Parramatta as a city serves a greater area than just that contained within the city boundaries. The western suburbs area or region is much larger than the area served by the city of Parramatta. There is a need for a community centre, one which in my view would cost a good deal. Parramatta needs such things as a theatre, an auditorium, a community arts venue and so on. These things are missing from the area. The greater area would be served by these things. I would like the Minister to assure me that although money has not been made available under the Western Suburbs area improvement scheme before for such a project that if one was developed by the Parramatta City Council- it may well involve hundreds of thousands of dollars- funds would be available under the area improvement scheme. It does appear that although feasibility studies were made under last year's estimates no specific amounts were appropriated. 
The final matter I want to deal with is a question I placed on notice in this Parliament on 16 July and in the last Parliament on 2 1 March. I sought information as to the sums of money allocated to each State pursuant to the Sewerage Agreements Act, the names of the authorities in each State receiving grants, what part of the grants were received by each of these authorities, whether the moneys had been collected by each of the authorities and spent and what works had been completed. I asked for particulars of the Federal divisions in which these works had been carried out and commenced. I wonder why the Minister has not yet answered this very inportant question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to address my comments to clause 4 as this deals with the continued existence of the present Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The clause seeks to substitute a new name for that body. It is to be known as the Australian Broadcasting Authority. I wish to make some comments in relation to this body which has had a continuing existence but whose existence is to continue now under a new name. The Government proposes a scheme in which a number of changes follow as a consequence of the initial change in the name of that body resulting in a completely different organisation. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  indicated that these were urgent matters which required amendment. By the very nature of the amendments, they do not seem to be urgent. At this time, the proposals seem to me to be of a temporary nature designed to achieve certain objectives. I would see in these amendments certain sinister objectives which are introduced preparatory to a more detailed scheme and proposals being worked out before reconstituting at a later date the existing authority or organisation. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board which is not to be made subject to controls by this Parliament and the decisions of which are not to be subject to appeal is to have taken from it certain powers in a most underhand way by this Government. I refer in particular to the statements by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  and specifically to the comments made by the Minister, which were reported in my local newspapers, in relation to the establishment of a radio station to serve the western suburbs of Sydney. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board advised that a station could be allocated in that area and that frequencies were available. The Minister subsequently said that he would be inviting applications as soon as the Board had decided the exact technical specifications. Representatives of the Board made frequent visits to the electorate of Parramatta and adjoining electorates and on the occasion - 
My remarks are relevant particularly to the authority of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or of the new Authority that this Bill seeks to establish. This Bill seeks to continue in existence the present Board. The point that I propose to make is that the Government by its own action is denigrating the authority of this Board as it is now or the Authority as it is to be created, by taking away from it functions which the Government now alleges that it will have and which will be of a continuing nature. What I wish to draw to your attention is the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in referring this decision on the establishment of a western suburbs radio station, after it was made, to the Priorities Review Staff. The Prime Minister has taken away from the residents of the western suburbs of Sydney the right to their own radio station by reversing the decision and referring the whole matter to the Priorities Review Staff. We know, by way of a letter addressed to me, after inquiries to the Minister for the Media, that the authority of the Board has been taken away and that this matter has been left in limbo in terms of a report which is in the hands of the Prime Minister and is available only to him and a number of Ministers who have the authority to receive it. I refer specifically to the Ministers for - 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total sum allocated to each State pursuant to the Sewerage Agreements Act 1 973. 
What are the names of the relevant authorities within each State that have received grants, and what part of the grant mentioned in answer to part ( 1 ) was received by these authorities. 
Have the moneys allocated been collected by the relevant authorities and spent 
Is so, what works have been completed or subsequently commenced by the authorities detailed in answer to part (2) and, in particular, what sums have been allocated to each project and spent, and in what Federal Electoral Divisions were these works carried out or commenced. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister, not in his role as acting Treasurer. To give him a respite from questions on the economy, this question relates to the western suburbs urban mirage. I refer to the announcement recently made by the Minister for Services and Property that the Government had taken a further lease of office space for 500 employees of the Taxation Office in Macarthur House, following the lease of 7 floors of IAC House, Parramatta. The Prime Minister will recall that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government initiated action to purchase the site at Parramatta known as Meggets. This was some 2 years ago. Nothing has happened on that site since. The Prime Minister will be aware that any private developer could not wait for this length of time without the development of such a large site having regard to the very expensive holding charges. He will also be aware that his colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, announced in September 1973 certain plans - 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many commemorative stamps were issued during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973, and how many stamps are proposed to be issued in the years 1 974, 1 975 and 1976, where such stamps relate specifically to conventions and/or other assemblies of people meeting within Australia. 
I am sorry that my important time in this debate will have to be taken up in replying to some of the malicious remarks that we have just heard from the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  Those sorts of remarks have been made on other occasions in this House by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  whom I note has just come into the House to support the honourable member for Bowman. These honourable members have used quite unrelated events and quite unsubstantiated allegations to malign other honourable members in the House. They are quite unjustified in doing so, and it is not in keeping with the dignity of this House or the way in which honourable members ought to conduct themselves. I think that every honourable member in this House would be well aware, having listened to the honourable member for Prospect on the occasion on which he personally maligned me and failed to apologise for the remarks that he made in linking me with the Australian League of Rights as a result of completely unsubstantiated and unchecked allegations - 
Br Klugman- That is not true. 
-It is perfectly true, and you only have to look at Hansard to see those remarks. On that occasion you referred specifically to papers that you alleged said what an infamous organisation this League of Rights is. You referred specifically to papers produced by the Australian Country Party. You relied upon those papers to prove your point when you attempted to malign me. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I would ask the honourable member to speak through the Chair and I ask honourable members to cease interjecting. 
-Most certainly,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do wish to make clear in the limited time that I have available to me that this sort of attempt to malign members of this House in this way is quite unjustified, and I am disappointed that I have to come into this House and defend other honourable members from these types of unsubstantiated remarks. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I thank the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  for his courtesy in giving me time to make a few short comments. The time given to me, however, does not enable me to indulge myself in the pleasant pastime of being unduly polite to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  However, I do support wholeheartedly the Bills. One must really sift through the politics of the Minister's second reading speech to get down to the nitty gritty matters which I think are of more importance, particularly to me. I would draw attention particularly to this statement in the Minister's second reading speech on the Aged Persons Hostels Bill: 
The level of construction costs has undoubtedly been a restraint on the development of this program recently. 
That statement is a clear indication of the need for this House to support the amendment proposed by the Opposition. Quite clearly many worthwhile organisations are not going to be able to complete urgently required hostel accommodation in the time permitted by this program. This is why the Opposition has sought its extension. The admission in the Minister's second reading speech is clearly the reason for the amendment to be supported by honourable members from both sides of this House and not, as it appears will be made apparent later on this evening, by only the members of the Opposition. 
I wish to draw to the attention of the House the severe cost problems that many organisations are facing. I have been acquainted with the demands of particular organisations in my own electorate. I was very pleased to observe last May from a sheet forwarded to me courteously by the Minister advising that the Willandra Village at Marsfield had received an approval under the Aged Persons Hostel Act to erect a hostel containing 78 units. I am told by the New South Wales Baptist Homes Trust that in fact when this grant was made it was considered that this particular project was one which was worth emulating. The Department was pleased to learn that the Baptist Homes Trust had been able to receive tenders that would enable it to build this hostel within the limits set. Other organisations were referred to this project and they were told: 'Look, if you do your building in the way in which the New South Wales Baptist Homes Trust has you will be able to build within the limits set. You are not really planning your project properly'. 
The Baptist Homes Trust called tenders and found that the contract price in May 1974 was $567,458. With fees it was going to have to pay another $40,000, making a total of $607,000. This figure was well within the maximum subsidy range. As I said, it was cited as a shining example. Their architects subsequently advised that the figure, having regard to the rise and fall clause in the contract, would rise to $809,000. On the basis of the subsidy proposed even in the Minister's second reading speech in April of $9,000, the Trust would receive only $702,000. The Baptist Homes Trust found, with the funds it had available, and allowing for credit and the moneys it would receive under the subsidy, that it would have to meet the sum of $ 107,000 from its own funds. 
It is, I think, a preposterous situation that a well organised institution such as the New South Wales Baptist Homes Trust is not able to provide this hostel from the funds and the credit available to it. At one stage the Trust seriously considered cancelling the proposal. This would have led it to have to find the additional moneys that would be necessary to pay the architect, and this amounted to some $50,000. That was the alternative that the Trust had to get itself out of this situation in which it found itself as a result of the approval that it had received. 
I know that this problem which I have mentioned is one which is shared by the Central Methodist Mission in Sydney and other organisations which have found it necessary to cancel proposals to build hostels. In the short moment left to me I wish to make a plea to the Minister to indicate in his speech later this evening when we are considering the legislation in Committee that he will use this discretion that this legislation gives him to increase the level of subsidy from $9,000 to a far greater sum. I think this is necessary, because unless it is done these urgently needed hostels will not be built, and many that have been proposed will fall by the wayside. I ask the Minister whether he will consider this proposition. I hope that an announcement will be made tonight. I hope the Minister will use the discretion that we are giving him tonight to increase the amount of subsidy limit from $9,000 to a sum which will permit organisations such as the New South Wales Baptist Homes Trust to build such hostels without cost so that they will be able to avail themselves of the funds provided by way of subsidy to build other urgently required hostels. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-I believe that the motion to suspend Standing Orders is important in this case. The statements we have just heard from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on this question have highlighted that in the minds of all honourable members. There are many matters associated with aircraft. They include air navigation charges, the siting of airports and pilots' salaries. These matters ought to be discussed in a total sense and in a total debate because they are intimately related. I believe it is important that the suspension be carried so that - 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Nixon's)  be agreed to. 
I wish to refer particularly to the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I do this because I think it is important for preciseness that I indicate that the remarks I propose to make in this debate arise clearly from remarks made by the Minister. I refer particularly to the third paragraph of his second reading speech on the Air Navigation Bill 1974. The Minister said: 
There is absolutely no justification for continuing the heavy subsidy support of the general aviation industry which makes heavy demands on aviation facilities and on the funds to provide and maintain them. 
It is clear that this Bill relates to aviation facilities and the funds necessary to provide such facilities, not just navigation facilities. In his second reading speech on the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill the Minister made reference to what his Department was proposing to do. He indicated clearly that the Department is critically reviewing all of its air transport activities with a view to effecting economies, wherever they can be made, in consultation with the airlines and, the Minister implied, with the general aviation industry and representatives of the various employee organisations concerned. Having regard to the comments made in relation to  Mr Croft  and the alleged lack of information on his part in these negotiations and discussions, as well as the suggestions that he was in some way misinformed, I am surprised that this is the case in view of the obvious intention of the Government that people such as he ought to have been consulted about these savings before they were initiated. Having regard to the tone of his remarks in newspaper reports that I have read, I am very surprised to learn that there appears to have been in these matters a lack of consultation. 
I refer to the speech made by the Minister on Friday, 10 May, at the Baulkham Hills Community Centre. The Minister will recall this speech, during which he spoke about the cost of establishing new airport and aircraft facilities. Certainly it was a speech on which I would commend him, because the information given was along the lines of the informed material that many members of this House had given to the Minister and along the lines of the information contained in the Spring Report which had been prepared in relation to the proposed Galston airport by the Galston Airport Protest Committee. I had proposed to take honourable members through some of the early debates on this matter but time does not permit me to do that. The Minister indicated that the site at Galston would be much more expensive to develop than any other site. In that speech he dealt with the fact that the acquisition of the land would cost $120m. He mentioned also that 900 homes would have to be replaced and that another 400 homes would have to be taken in order to provide space for roadways leading to the airport. He said that runways would cost $20m to $30m more than they would cost at any other site. It is clear that substantial savings would be made in terms of air navigation charges if the Government were not to embark on such an extravagant proposal. Towards the end of his speech the Minister gave an undertaking to the people concerned in that area. He said: 
I hope some small comfort can be gained from knowing that I am against Galston. Now that the preliminary study has been completed I will be recommending to Cabinet that the Government should not proceed with the major study which will mean that Galston will not be the site. 
So far as I know and, I imagine, so far as any other honourable member and certainly the residents in this area know, no such decision has been made by the Cabinet. I can assume only that the matter has not been taken before the Cabinet. I would like to know in this important debate in which the cost of establishing air navigation charges is so relevant whether this substantial saving will be affected by this disastrous proposal being abandoned forthwith. I hope that the Minister for Transport will take this opportunity briefly to assure me and the residents of this area that this proposal will not be proceeded with and that the matter has been dealt with by Cabinet, or will indicate a program that we will know about which will indicate the manner in which Cabinet proposes to deal with the matter and when this will be. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Did the Minister say on Monday evening last when addressing the Australian Workers Union that he sees nothing of great appeal in the capitalist or mixed enterprise system in which he asserted we are now living? Did the Minister say that he is still a democratic socialist but that he had to wait temporarily until the system could be changed? Having those factors in mind, will the Minister explain what changes should be made to the system and how and when they might be implemented? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I am very gratified to be able to participate in this very important debate. It is important because all the members of this Parliament approach it with a very high degree of sincerity. Nobody can live in a community and not be concerned about the people who live around him and the needs and aspirations of that community. I was pleased that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  had approached with an open mind those people who were concerned about the cost of land and the cost of developing land. I too was concerned at these costs and the difficulties that young people in my own electorate and throughout Sydney experience in buying land. Nobody doubts the sincerity of the honourable member for Diamond Valley in looking for a solution. Nobody doubts the sincerity of the Minister. However, one can doubt the methods they seek to adopt to achieve desirable objectives. Earlier in the debate it was pointed out that everybody is aware of the need to make our federal system work. The Minister certainly went to great lengths and, in fact, one would wonder if he was ever a centralist when one reads the paragraphs contained in his speech. 
A progressive federalist- a delightful phrase. Additionally, the Minister speaks of co-operative federalism. Every member in this House ought to want to make federalism work. I doubt that that is the intention of the Government. Notwithstanding the willingness of the Minister to accept from the Opposition a proposed amendment which, I believe, was necessary because the particular provision imposed onerous conditions upon States and local government authorities, I do not accept that federalism is being made to work effectively when one looks at the scheme of things. I refer to the honourable member for Diamond Valley because he saw the method by which the cost of land to young people could be lowered as the creation of another government organisation- a further administrative expense. He mentioned that the most important aspect of the increased cost of land was, in most instances, the cost of development. 
I point out to honourable members the cost to this community of the duplication that is occurring with the Department of Urban and Regional Development on the one hand and, on the other hand, with other departments which work in this area. I went to the trouble of going through Appropriation Bill (No. 1)- I am not going to speak to that Bill- and the figures are very telling. The cost of administration- that is in terms of salaries and expenses and in terms of the Cities Commission which also operates in this area- to the Australian community is some $8,058,000. There are other service departments that are supposed to operate on a co-operative federalist basis and on behalf of which the Department of Urban and Regional Development previously made grants. They include the Department of the Environment and Conservation whose administrative costs alone amount to $2,730,000. Similarly, the Department of Tourism and Recreation operates in this area. It is supposedly a co-operative federalist department. Its cost of administration is $1,521,000. The cost of administration for the Council for the Arts, which is under the Prime Minister's Department, is $2m. That is a sum total of $ 14m that could be available to fulfil urgent needs if we did not have to have another set of departments sitting on top of States and local governments and telling them how the job has to be done. 
But that is not the only cost. There is also the cost of local government and State governments having to supply information. I was in Parramatta the other day when 3 Commonwealth cars drove past me, one after the other, each containing six officers, or perhaps only four, sitting in comfort, who were leaving the local city council chambers. It would not surprise me if they were from the Department of Urban and Regional Development soliciting additional information to enable the Department to fulfil its functions. Local government officers, the mayor, the aldermen and the town clerk, have to make their time and the time of their officers available to deal with these matters, whereas if they simply received a grant they would be able to make the decisions themselves. If they have to be consulted on a matter why not let them make the decisions? These, then, are cost aspects, but not all of them. As I pointed out in the Estimates debate, there are the costs now being imposed on the community of so-called education- $450,000 to tell the Australian people that another department, superimposed upon all the State instrumentalities, is in fact spending their money in a proper way, and what a great and wonderful job it is doing. I cannot accept such expenditure. This is extravagance, and extravagance that we do not need and cannot afford. 
The problem we have, and it gets down to the method adopted to deal with these problems, is that at the moment notwithstanding all these grants, local government and State governments with limited access to funds cannot do the jobs that they are now required to do. Councils are required to put up rates to enable them to carry out the obligations they have had in the past and which supposedly they are now going to be aided in meeting. Most of them have found it very difficult to raise loan moneys as a result of the credit squeeze. Some councils are having to consider putting off employees. The Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board is having to consider putting off employees because it cannot raise the money in the money markets in Australia that it was previously able to raise to meet its obligations. When we start robbing Peter to pay Paul, which is what the Government is doing, this ought to be pointed out to the Australian community. All these grants that are being provided are not even making up for the deficiency that exists when the councils and the Water Board cannot raise the money to carry out their projects. In his second reading speech the Minister acknowledges that State governments and local government authorities have expertise in these areas. He pointed out that State Ministers have made significant contributions in the application of programs. He went further and said: 
We are not imposing a grand design on the States. 
If the objective of the Department is not to impose a grand design for some overall scheme of things, what is its objective? I put it that that statement was incorrect so far as the Minister is concerned although it ought to be correct so far as I am concerned and, I believe, so far as members of the Opposition are concerned, because we believe that the State Ministers and the local government authorities have expertise and should be allowed to make decisions without the cost of somebody looking over their shoulders all the time. 1 wanted to deal with the statements of the Minister that dealt with the need to decentralise. The statements were admirable but where the Minister fails when he says 'Firstly, we will work together with the States to change the growth patterns of Australian cities', and then goes on to cover the urgent needs for decentralisation, is that he does not advance a real program to encourage people to make moves. While he speaks glibly about the cost of the land, the more he attempts to reduce the cost of land in Sydney and in outer metropolitan areas the more likely it is that his program for decentralisation is going to fail. Until he advances a program which is going to include job incentives and certainty of employment for people working in decentralised areas- a program for overcoming communication difficulties to make it easy for people to be able to communicate with the families they leave behind in major cities such as Melbourne or Sydneyand until he makes up in those decentralised centres for recreational disadvantges, people will not be ready or willing to make a move, notwithstanding the substantial cost they may incur by wanting to continue to live in Sydney and Melbourne. Although a program is set out later in the Minister's speech, and mention is made of the expenditures in New South Wales and in each of the other States, there is nothing to indicate that the Minister has such a policy or program to overcome the difficulties I have just mentioned. 
I want to deal with one other matter on which I had the opportunity to have private discussions with the Minister after I had made certain allegations that the grants to the western suburbs made under the area improvement scheme had been reduced. I received a note from the Minister the other day which indicated that the western region of Sydney was now to receive only $2m. Of course, honourable members will recall that the western suburbs received in excess of $5m in the last financial year under the area improvement program. Great play has been made by this Government of the way in which it has met the needs of the western suburbs. The Minister attempted to tell me when I saw him privately on this matter- I hope that I am not breaching any privilege; on this occasion I think that I am not erring- that the grant of $5m included grants for tourism and recreation and grants for the Council for the Arts. He claimed that there would not be a cut in the program in the western suburbs this year. 
I have taken the trouble to go through the grants that were made last year in respect of the western suburbs. Although I could find mention of community centres and so on, I could not see any mention of grants related to the Council for the Arts. The only project which related to tourism and recreation was $25,000 for a few scenic roads in Colo. It seems patently obvious to me that cuts have been made in the grants for the western suburbs, that insufficient funds are being made available and that urgent needs are being curtailed so that other programs in other areas can be accommodated. I hope that the Minister will acknowledge that the program in the western suburbs has had to suffer so that other needs can be met. 
Finally, I would like to say a few brief words on sewerage. The Minister referred to sewerage in his speech. He indicated that the Government's intention was to provide all new homes with sewerage by the end of 1982. The Minister is clearly breaching Labor Party policy in 2 respects. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his original policy statement said that all homes and all premises would be sewered by 1978. This date has been extended by 4 years. The provision of sewerage has also been limited to new homes. The Minister will well know that under section 34(b) of the New South Wales Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board Act developers are required to make a contribution for sewerage reticulation and amplification. In other words, all new land and new homes in Sydney have to be sewered anyway. Therefore the glib promise that these homes will be provided with sewerage by 1982 is quite unrealistic. I would like the Minister to be able to reiterate that the Government will attempt to meet its initial undertakings. Of course, most of us recognise that the undertakings were quite specious, they could not be met and they were quite unrealistic and not thought out. 
I will certainly make sure that what the honourable member has just said is known around the Parramatta area. Putting that aside, I would like the Minister to reiterate that the Government will try to meet its original commitment because that commitment was related to urgent and needy circumstances. The Minister is just back peddling. I believe that the statements we have heard from the Minister are not worthy of him. As I said earlier in the debate I acknowledge his sincerity and his willingness to try to solve the problems, but I am not prepared to accept any longer the salesmanship that goes with this. 
My question which I address to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked of him earlier by the honourable member for Chisholm. The Prime Minister will recall that he avoided the question which was earlier asked. I ask: In view of the now desperate need for confidence in business and investment, will the Prime Minister seriously consider abandoning for the time being his proposed capital gains tax because it is a tax on inflation which acts against investment? 
-This afternoon we heard from the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  a political speech in which he requested that members of the Opposition not cane him and certainly not say or do anything that might in any way undermine public confidence. Yet in his opening remarks he said that the Liberals were to blame for the excessive funds that have been made available in the home building area. Before that the Minister said: 'The difference between the Liberal Party and the Labor Party is that you Libeals never did anything positive like this' - meaning this piece of legislation. He made 2 points which were quite inconsistent. If we had never done anything like this, if we had never done anything to stimulate the building industry, how can he suggest that any excessive funds that were available in this area before were available as a result of action taken by this political party? That argument is quite specious and the Australian people know it to be false. 
The Minister cannot have it both ways. He suggested that because there had been some improvement- a small improvement at that- in the number of housing approvals, the situation was on the mend. I would point out that in his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  mentioned that last year the number of building approvals in Australia reached a record level of 152,700. My calculation on the same rate of building approvals for 12 months as we have seen for the month mentioned by the Minister in his speech would give us some 53,000 homes built this year if these conditions continued. That is, one-third of the number of homes would be built in Australia, if they were proceeded with at this rate of approval, than were built during the preceding year for which we were blamed. It seems quite clear to me and it ought to be quite clear to all thinking people, that if there is a reduction of 100,000 homes that might otherwise have been expected to be built, we would need next year something in the order of 250,000 homes- that is, a 500 per cent increase in the rate of approvals- if we were to achieve the position in terms of completed homes that we have had up to now. 
I was speaking to an architect friend of mine the other day. I think it is probably more realistic to look at the number of drawings on his board to assess what the real position will be, because building approvals are only the result of architects' drawings. This particular architect in Parramatta told me that he had had no new work across his drawing board in 3 months. I suggest that if his situation is indicative of that of other architects, we will see a further fall in the number of approvals and not an increase. As the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in a most admirable speech made clear, the number of approvals cannot be related per quarter and one must look at a more overall situation. 
In my area there is a large number of home builders- some very large companies and some very small companies. I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to a plaintive letter I received from a small builder. Unfortunately a very large builder is likely to go the same way as this gentleman. He wrote me and said: 
This firm has been building 1 2 to 1 5 homes per year since its formation in 1 964, at very competitive prices. 
This fellow has lived through many squeezes. At that time he had 3 completed homes unsold in the Parramatta region and he could not sell them. He had taken on apprentices at the request of government departments. He said in his concluding remarks: 
Thanks to the wisdom and economic management of the present Government this company has ceased to function as from today. 
That was on 12 August. He asked me to convey the implications of his letter and that trend to the Government. I did this in letters to the Minister for Housing and Construction and to the Treasurer. The Treasurer replied to me. He did not comment upon the plight of this builder who had gone out of business, but he said this: 
The Government's policies over the past 18 months have been directed towards reducing the excessive availability of housing finance . . . That situation is now being alleviated. 
It was only in September that he said this, at a time when the Housing Industry Association warned us that 'a dangerously low level of housing construction has now resulted from the severely restrictive financial policies of the Australian Government and the industry's future must be regarded with great concern.' That Association said in September: 
A number of home builders face bankruptcy, while many others are cutting down or drastically reducing their operations. 
I can confirm that in my area builders are at the stage where they will be out of business and people will no longer be employed by them unless draconian measures are taken to increase demand and to enable homes to be sold and people to obtain finance. 
I submit that the methods we have before us, whilst they go part of the way, will not relieve this situation that resulted from the Government's own actions, which were designed to bring to fruition in the Treasurer's words the Government's aims in the field of welfare housing- that is, by stifling private building in Australia. That is what was intended. Clearly what needs to be done is that the Governmenthaving achieved its end in controlling finance corporations in Australia, controlling as it can the operations of building societies and permanent building societies, and notwithstanding the plaintive words of the Minister for Housing and Construction that the Government has confidence in building societies and his statement that the Government has virtually underwritten building societies- must guarantee the operations of building societies. It must do this so that those societies, in New South Wales in particular, will be in a position to release moneys they are holding in a cash form and will not invest in the housing market through fear that has been generated as a result of this Government's policies. I would submit that by guaranteeing the debts or possible debts of the building societies very large sums of money would be immediately available to relieve an urgent problem. It is not good enough for the Government supporters to complain, as they have, about rentals, rental accommodation and the high rents people have to pay when we have seen the destruction of private investment and of the willingness of people to invest in buildings for rent. Unless action on the lines proposed by the honourable member for Lilley, or action proposed by me in respect of building societies, is taken I submit that this problem will not be solved. 
-The purpose of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) 
Bill which is shortly explained in a one-page speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is to extend for a second time the operation of legislation introduced by the former Government. As the Treasurer quite properly points out, the legislation which was introduced in 1972 was an interim measure. It expired on 31 December 1973. Its operation was to be extended until 3 1 December 1 974. It is now proposed once more to extend the operation of the legislation. We cannot object to the Bill because quite properly if we did object there would be no legislation to control foreign takeovers at all. What one has to look at is whether the legislation which was brought in by the former Government as an interim measure, and as explained by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  is adequate for today. If one looks at statements which one has seen from the Government it becomes quite clear that at least in the Government's eyes the legislation is supposedly inadequate. 
If one reads the very early statements on these matters one presumes that the Government intended to act promptly because it considered that this matter required urgent review. I have before me a Press statement issued by the Treasurer in mid-February 1973, which was shortly after the Government came to office. It was reported in the Melbourne 'Herald' under the headline: 
Government plans to alter law on takeovers. 
When one goes through and reads the comments of the Treasurer at that time- February 1973- one appreciates that he saw urgency in amending this law. The Treasurer stated: 
Australian takeover procedures are not satisfactory . . . 'we can't do anything about them until Parliament meets'. 
He was addressing the Australian Institute of Chartered Accountants. The article states: 
He was asked whether he saw a need for any alteration in takeover procedures. 

 Mr Crean said the takeover legislation brought in by the McMahon Government was unsatisfactory because 'it calls on people who are already very busy in other sorts of areas to be the examiners.' 'It takes an inordinate amount of my time,' he said. 
The legislation has had some quite remarkable effects, unsatisfactory as it is. We are considering amending it. but I don't think we'll have anything until April or May. What is there will continue as an interim measure. ' 
That was April or May 1973. We are now in early December 1974. This does not seem to be keeping with the rhetoric of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he spoke in the election campaign of November 1972. In speaking about the control of Australian resources, the Leader of the Opposition as he was then but the Prime Minister as he was to be, stated: 
Now, the most profitable and significant of Australia's industries and resources are under foreign control.  Sir John  McEwen described this process as selling a bit of the farm year by year to pay our way.  Mr McMahon,  more than any other Liberal, prevented any effort to limit foreign investment in those years. More than any other Australian,  Mr McMahon  bears the responsibility for Australia 'selling the farm'. 
Yet today we have legislation which is designed to continue the operation of legislation which was in fact, introduced into this Parliament by  Mr McMahon.  This legislation has now remained on the statute books effectively for the Government's purpose for 2 years. The Prime Minister was devastatingly critical, as he can be on occasions like this. I would like to hear what he is saying now about the need for this sort of legislation. He went on to state: 
But in truth, it has not been the 'farm' which has been sold- not the industries like wheat or wool or fruit or dairying or gold, the industries which have faced the crisis and hardships of recent years. It is the strongest and richest of our own industries and services which have been bought up from overseas. It's time to stop the great takeover of Australia. But more important, it's time to start buying Australia back. A Labor Government will enable Australia and ordinary Australians to take part in the ownership, development and use of Australian industries and resources. 
Specifically the Prime Minister dealt with takeovers. He stated: 
The protection of Australian enterprises against foreign takeover can only be achieved by explicit Government policy. We will establish a secretariat to report to the Government on all matters concerning the flow of foreign investment and all substantial takeovers and mergers. 
That statement was made during that campaign. It has not been adhered to by the Government. If I want to find out what is the Government's policy I am required to go to'a number of newspaper reports to ascertain it. The one substantive statement which I have been able to find was the address by the Treasurer to the Association for the Retention of Australian Ownership on 13 October 1973. The substantive paper which was produced by any government in Australia was in May 1972. That was the paper produced by the former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  on Overseas Investment in Australia. It was tabled and it became Parliamentary Paper No. 51. It comprehensively dealt with very many problems. We all acknowledge that there are problems in dealing with this sort of area in terms of producing legislation. It is clear that many people in our community are interested in the form of legislation. I for one would be interested to know what form of legislation we will see, what its effect will be and what areas it will cover. 
I think there would be nothing more desirable than for the Treasurer today to table at least the guidelines which have been given to the parliamentary draftsmen so that the community will know the manner in which the Government intends to legislate in this area. Certainly there is nothing in the Treasurer's statement of 13 October 1973 which would indicate what those guidelines might be. More so than the Prime Minister's speech, it was a series of platitudes designed to indicate to the Australian people that perhaps the Government was concerned about the control of Australian resources. If one reads that speech- I have read it- one will find nothing in it which would indicate the substantive directions in which the Government believes we ought to be going. The Treasurer's only statement of any consequence was subsequently reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' in these terms: 
For this reason we want to ensure that foreign capital enters those areas where it is really needed and where it can make a significant contribution to our continued economic growth. 
That was reported to be a little bit more of the business bashing and overseas investment bashing by the present Government. Quite rightly that interpretation could be put on it. Nothing in that speech and nothing that has been foreshadowed in terms of legislation would indicate how the Government thinks it can ensure that foreign capital enters those areas where it is really needed or how the Government proposes to use the controls that were introduced by the former Government. 
I read a number of statements to try to ascertain what the Government thinks ought to be done in this area. I found from an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 28 November 1973 that it was felt that the control of assets, as distinct from shares, which was one of the problems that the Government thought was important, might be one matter that ought to be looked at. The statement indicated that the Government might be having difficulty in controlling joint venture operations. It indicated that it might be having problems in controlling the establishment of new foreign companies in Australia. It indicated that it was at least considering the matter suggested in the Liberal policy statement, that is, that a separate secretariat ought to be dealing with matters of foreign take-overs. It suggested that we ought to have a separate agency such as the one in Canada which deals with these matters rather than an inter-departmental committee. The Government may have been considering that. 
There were suggestions that a new definition of a foreign company may be needed. There were suggestions that the Government may have to deal also with aspects of a foreign company taking over another foreign company if substantial Australian assets could be controlled by that company. There were suggestions that leasing by foreign companies of local business operations might be looked at. There were also suggestions that other aspects might have to be covered, including export franchises, research, development expenditure, licensing, purchasing policies and also tax avoidance. I notice that these latter matters were mentioned by the Prime Minister in a speech that he made in Perth. 
What I am complaining of is that for a member and for the community to find out what direction our legislation might take they have to go to a series of Press leaks and statements to find out what it is all about. We have no clear statement from this Government as to what it considers needs to be done in this area. I believe we need this statement. If I were a member of this Government I would be ashamed of the fact that in this important area, one that has been made an issue in 2 elections by the Government, merely one sheet of paper has been given to explain the purpose of the Bill that we have before us when so much needs to be covered if the Australian community is to know what is to be done. The only substantive statements that I have been able to find that have been made in this House have been in answer to questions. In May 1973, the Treasurer agreed that there was need for the Act to be rewritten. He said this in answer to a question from the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  It was very disappointing to read the statement of the Treasurer which, as I said before, contained only mere generalisations. If the Treasurer is having any difficulty in learning what sort of legislation ought to be available to him and the manner in which it ought to be drafted, then I would advise him to have a look at the Canadian Foreign Investment Review Act, which covers a number of matters. 
-I would suggest that the Treasurer might have a look at their scheme because it contains provisions which deal with the control of assets in a situation like our own. Clearly to date all we have seen from the Government have been public relations exercises. I draw the attention of the House to an article by Professor Irving Kristol. He quite properly pointed out in an article which he wrote entitled 'The Corporation as a Dinosaur: Unadulterated Bad Guys' the difficulty that people would have in understanding the way in which multinational corporations have been dealt with on the Australian political scene. Quite clearly today when the Government has lost so many other whipping posts, it has had to find a new one. The Professor says of multi-national corporations: 
That the cultural environment is hostile, is obvious enough. Today, businessmen, and especially corporate executives, are just about the only class of people which a television drama will feel free to cast as pure villains. 
Jews and blacks and teachers and journalists and social workers and politicians and trade union leaders and policemen- and just about everyone else- are given protective coloration on the television screen. 
I think this is the stage that we have reached. The Government looks today for whipping posts and has sought to belabour multi-national corporations in this way. What I am saying is that what we need from the Government instead of a whipping post is a clear policy statement on what it is going to do in this area. The multi-national corporations as much as anyone else are entitled to know what policy proposals the Government has in mind to deal with them. They are entitled to see a paper presented setting out the approach that the Government would take. 
I invite honourable members also to think about a matter that worries me. A friend of mine kindly prepared for me, at my request, a statement on certain taxation aspects. Taxation was one of the matters that the Prime Minister mentioned in his address in Perth. It is one of the matters that I believe ought to be looked at more conscientiously by the Government. I do not know what aspects the Treasurer has in mind to deal with taxation of foreign investments in Australia. I do not think that they ought to be taxed any differently from Australian citizens in terms of their earnings. I believe that there is an obligation on us all to ensure that they are taxed fairly and that they pay their just part as we all do in terms of the contribution that they make to revenue. 
I have not seen any substantive case law which would indicate that the Australian Government has taken action to ensure that foreign corporations investing in Australia pay their just due. I know that from time to time eminent critics have indicated that perhaps- I do not know whether it is true or not- in the past oil companies, by their pricing policies may have avoided, by marking up the price at which they sold products to Australia, the obligation to meet taxes in Australia. I understand that in New Zealand, the New Zealand Commissioner of Inland Revenue was concerned about the aspect of whether taxable revenue may have been lost. As the responsible revenue collecting authority, he brought action against the companies to collect taxes in such instances. There was the Europa (New Zealand) Ltd case against the Commissioner of Inland Revenue. This case dealt with major oil companies which had supplied the New Zealand market and channelled its crude oil supplies through a wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in the Bahamas. In this case, the Commissioner sought to recover the revenue by disallowing a deduction claimed for the purchase price. I wonder whether this important case might have highlighted the need to clarify Australian legislation, although quite possibly the New Zealand precedent is sufficient. Section 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Australian Income Tax Assessment Act is the equivalent of the New Zealand law under which the decision was made in the Europa case. It is my submission that the Commissioner of Taxation ought to be looking at these areas much more closely than he appears to be doing, in terms of the reported decisions that I have seen on this important question. 
I propose to conclude my remarks by inviting the Government to stop its multi-national bashing, as I see it, and to get on with the job. I hope that we will see legislation in this important area introduced quickly and promptly so that we will know where the Government stands, we will know what its policies are to deal with these matters and all honourable members will have a lengthy time to consider and deal with them. I suppose that that is the only advantage I can see in the extension of time that is being granted by this particular Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-This clause endeavours to establish what is known as an averment procedure. It enables a prosecutor to state a particular fact and the facts that he is able to state are detailed in paragraphs (a) and (b). That is to be prima facie evidence of that fact in any court of law. It means that the burden of proof shifts from the prosecutor in any instance to the defendant. The clause itself is very wide. I draw the Committee's attention to paragraph (a), which states that one of the facts that can be averred to is that the defendant was in a specified park or reserve. There are a  number of Acts in which sections of this type already appear. They relate primarily to finance and matters of collection of public moneys. There are such sections in the Customs Act, the Income Tax Assessment Act and a number of levy Acts. These sections appear in such Acts because of the particular and peculiar matters of information that are in the hands of the defendant. One can understand that if the defendant has the only books and records he might be required to produce the evidence that he has in his hands. 
I am told this clause was supposedly based upon a similar clause appearing in the National Parks and Wildlife Bill which was earlier this year being considered by the New South Wales State parliament. I was particularly concerned that it may have been based upon some similar State Act. I obtained a copy of the Bill that was recently before that Parliament. Clause 181(1) covers the need of the Crown to produce a survey to prove that a particular place alleged to be in a park is in fact within that park. It was introduced to avoid the Crown having to produce surveyors in court to prove this fact. One can understand why a provision like that may have been introduced into the State legislation. I seek leave to have the clause of the New South Wales Bill incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)-  1 8 1 . ( 1 ) An allegation, in an information in respect of an offence against this Act,  the  regulations or the by-laws, that any lands in question form part of a national park, historic site, nature reserve, Aboriginal area, protected archaeological area, wildlife district, wildlife refuge or game reserve shall be sufficient without proof of the matter so alleged unless the defendant proves to the contrary. 
-As I understand it clause 65 was designed to cover that situation, but in fact paragraph (a) has been drawn so widely that an averment that a defendant was in a park becomes the point of prima facie evidence that has to be disproved. I consider this is far too wide. It is a constriction of personal liberty that one could not defend. I would like to refer the Committee to speeches made by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  some time ago on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill on 2 1 April 1971.1 draw the attention of honourable members to page 1813 of Hansard where certain very critical comments are contained on clauses of this type. I draw the attention of the House to the very scathing criticism of a clause of this type in the Pig Slaughter 
Levy Collection Bill which was considered in the Senate on 1 1 May 1971.  Senator Murphy's  comments are contained in page 1663 of Hansard. He was very critical of the way that finance matters that I mentioned earlier were being considered and where one could see some justification for it.  Senator Murphy  said of the averment clause of that Bill: 
But why should there be an unlimited provision of this nature under which an averment or statement can be made and then the onus of proof passes to the defendant? 
He was very critical of the clause. I suggest that the clause as drafted is far too wide. I personally intend to oppose it and I hope that if the Committee considers that it should be proceeded with an amendment to restrict its very wide character will be considered and that when the Bill is ultimately passed it will have been amended to take into account the matters that I have raised. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 66 to 68- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 69 (International Agreements) 
I want to speak in this very important debate because I, too, believe that this is one of the most important and far-reaching Bills to come before this Parliament. I regret that it is brought before the Parliament in these closing hours, as we have been told before in relation to other matters, when few speakers will be able to contribute to the debate. I will refer later on to certain matters which I think indicate that although this matter may be important to myself, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  other honourable members on this side of the House, and particularly the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who preceded me, and perhaps the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  it certainly is not important to the Government as a whole. Few people could disagree with the statements of the Minister in his second reading speech when he refers to the virtues of legislation of this type, as distinct from this Bill, and its clauses, and one could be very much inclined to accept the view that to speak about the environment and environmental consequences when we are looking at important developments, is almost the same as speaking 10 years ago about the virtues of the family and family life. Of course, one wonders whether in the future the community will hold to those same values or perhaps even whether members of the community as a whole will hold those values which today I regard as important. They are the same sort of values that I regard as important when I think about the family and family life. However, I will put that aside for the moment to deal with certain important aspects of the Bill. 
This Bill has very wide reaching repercussions. I believe that it allows the Government- I do not believe that the people know to what extent- to impinge upon all sorts of areas that are not only and immediately the Government's responsibility. Looking at the definition section of the Bill where the authority of Australia is defined, it seems quite clear to me that one of the authorities of Australia would include the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. Again, if we look at clause 5 of the Bill it seems quite clear that where any authority of Australia is negotiating or doing something in association with any other government authority, body or person- perhaps it is entering into negotiations, enforcement of agreements and so on- arrangements under subclause (c)- that is the loan of money by the Bank- could give the Government authority to intervene through that Bank and to require this type of impact study statement as part of that negotiation. I mention this because the honourable member for Macarthur mentioned that business men did not mind the community making these judgments at the moment. Certainly, where State governments and perhaps local government authorities are required to vet proposals because of their impact on a community, business certainly accepts that this is necessary because the community has an interest. 
But to what extent is business prepared to accept duplication? I submit that the community is not prepared at the moment to accept lengthy studies and perhaps examinations by commissioners in addition to seeking approval from State planning authorities, or planning and environment commissioners in the case of New South Wales, and local government authorities, and then have to meet substantial holding charges, which business has to do as distinct from governments which do not have to do that. They have to undergo extensive cost and delay and submit to numerous inquiries. While one might accept that the discretionary provisions that the Minister has referred to give the Commonwealth and the Minister power to exercise a discretion, to say that he will not require an impact study in this particular case, that clause of the Bill which deals with this matter by itself also has inherent in it other dangers which 1 do not believe people in the community would be aware of to date. I propose to cover this in a little while. 
In political terms it is time for this sort of legislation because members of the community are concerned about the environment. Nobody denies the desirability of these sorts of studies when Commonwealth proposals and perhaps even expenditure by the Commonwealth in other areas are involved with the sort of limitation that I have mentioned in relation to bodies that merely lend money to the public. I was particularly pleased to see the definition of the environment. It was put in very wide terms. It included all aspects of the surroundings of man whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groupings. The word 'environmental' has a corresponding meaning. I think that the concept of environmental impact statements ought to be widened in the public mind to accept a social responsibility. I like to think in terms of social impact statements when we are looking at the effect of government proposals. I think that this definition will be more important in the future when the concept of environmental impact statements is seen to be wider, particularly when government proposals are being looked at. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, endeavoured to make political capital. Although in the opening paragraphs he acknowledged the role of the previous governments in developing impact statement procedures he went on to say that under the previous governments impact statements were to be made public immediately after a Cabinet decision was announced and before related legislation or appropriations were passed by the Parliament. He stated that these arrangements provided the public with minimum opportunity to influence the decision on an environmental ground. While that observation may be correct, I think that in the time in which it was introduced it was certainly an innovation. Perhaps it was a little unkind of the Minister to put it that way. In that case, perhaps I can be a little unkind myself. I make the observation that in answer to a question from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  the Minister said certain things. The question on notice and the answer are recorded at page 2127 of Hansard. The honourable member for Sturt asked this question: 
Will the Minister inform the public of environmental impact studies as they are initiated from time to time? 
The Minister replied to that point: 
No. This is a matter for the department or organisation putting forward a proposal, though in the interests of 'open government' I would hope that they will do so. 
I think that it is pertinent to note that whilst the Minister involved was certainly concerned to see that these statements were made public his fellow Ministers were not as concerned as he was, otherwise it would not be necessary to answer the question in that way. I believe that the statement was a little unkind because he endeavoured to single out previous governments when, in fact, his own Government in its performance showed a distinct weakness. Perhaps honourable members should take the time to read the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  issued during this last week on the achievements of the Government during 1974. Perhaps this copy that I received is faulty. I went through it and looked for these very important items of legislation that are before the Parliament. I could find nothing dealing with environmental impact statements or dealing with the important national parks and wildlife legislation before the House. I believe that this is perhaps not indicative of the importance that the Minister puts on this subject but it is certainly indicative of the lack of importance put on it by the Prime Minister. I say this because of the fact that he omits this very important item of legislation from that statement of achievements. 
The other matter I want to deal with briefly relates to the sum of money involved in the administration of this program. My recollection is that in the Estimates this year we are to see allocated for this project a sum of $35,000 as funds for the administration of this program and the establishment of the Commission. This is in comparison with the public awareness program of $100,000 and the $16,000 for advertising. I wonder sometimes where our priorities are or the number of impact studies we are likely to see made. I mention particularly the question of duplication in relation to the State governments and the exercise of this discretion that the Minister has. But what worries me about the discretionary rights is highlighted in the Galston proposal. Honourabe members will recall that before the announcement was made in regard to the proposal to site an international airport at Galston, no impact studies were readily avialable, none could be released and when impact studies were available the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  indicated that he would not be recommending to the Government that they proceed with the development of that site. 
What one has to look at when a discretion is provided is the people in whose hands it is. I am not suggesting that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, who is at the table, would exercise this discretion improperly. But what does worry me is that there may be other Ministers who may not exercise that discretion in the same responsible way that he may. Certainly the Galston decision would clearly indicate that a government, where government interests are concerned, could arrive at a decision without regard to environmental factors and it could do so in exercising this sort of discretion. I have mentioned the problem as I see it in relation to duplication. I have mentioned particularly the Public Works Committee of this House. What I have been saying also applies to the other parliamentary committees that examine particular matters such as the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, of which I am a member and which I believe looks at social consequences and social impact when decisions are being made. It also applies to other parliamentary committees that undertake similar functions. 
One of the matters of which we ought to take cognisance- I do not think discretion is a satisfactory way to overcome it- is the cost of the duplication and the number of studies that could be made. The Minister might well say that his discretion would enable him to ensure that we are not seeing four or five studies of the same question. But I do not believe that this is good enough. I think the guidelines ought to be established as to who is to make these studies and what sort of factors ought to be taken into account. It is not good enough to say: 'Well, we will look at the particular authority. If it is a State government and if we do not like the way it is making its studies we will not recognise them'. Similarly, I suppose that in the case of a standing committee of this House the Minister could say that he would not look at its studies unless it went about conducting them in a certain way. I do not think that this is the way in which these decisions ought to be made. I do not think that these sorts of discretions should be used. 
Many people have been concerned about the volume of law dealing with the environment. I have mentioned this on a number of occasions. I spoke about it in the Estimates debate involving the Department of the Environment and Conservation. We have seen numbers of young lawyers, particularly at Sydney University, express concern at the lack of teaching at the moment of environmental law within universities. They have reason to be concerned because there may be some 300 Acts, when one includes State Acts as well as our own, that could impose varying conditions upon people undertaking certain activities in our community. These Acts make up a body of law which is far too complex, far too difficult and on which people cannot get advice. 
There is no locus standi in this legislation that I can see other than public opinion, and I know that the Minister puts great weight on public opinion. I read with interest an article that he wrote on influencing politicians. It may well be that he considers that is sufficient. But I would submit that it is not. There is an important principle here that the community ought to have locus standi to be able to undertake themselves where environmental factors are involved and are influencing the decision makers and they ought to be able to do it particularly by bringing pressure to bear through legal action. There ought to be a skilled body of lawyers taught effectively in these areas of law who are able to conduct these actions. I would recommend for the Minister's reading an article on the question of locus standi by Mark Tedeschi, a Fellow of Sydney University Law School, which appeared fairly recently in the Australian Law Journal. 
Earlier today I spoke about clause 65 of the National Parks and Wildlife Bill and I mentioned particularly the factors that concern me in relation to civil liberties. Again in this legislation, which is the second Bill dealing with the environment and conservation which has been before this House today, there are matters relating to civil liberties which appear to be in conflict with the environmental protection and impact proposals that we have before us. I am concerned that when we are dealing with one very desirable objective that we all believe ought to be achieved other desirable objectives are being put aside. I submit that this House ought to take greater cognisance of the freedom of the individual. 
It is disappointing to me to go through a Bill like this and to see Commissioners given very wide power. They are able, after presumably giving reasonable notice, whatever that is, to the occupier of any land, building or place to enter and inspect the land, building or place and inspect any material on the land, or on or in the building or place. Clause 20 sets out the very serious offences that can arise under the legislation. It states: 
A person shall not- 
insult or disturb a Commissioner in the exercise of his powers or the performance of his functions or duties as a Commissioner; 
One can well imagine the situation that could occur when a Commissioner walked on to some land, perhaps after reasonable notice had been given, or perhaps after inadequate notice that did not reach the individual had been given and as a result the individual was not aware of who that person was. The Commissioner could say: 'I am a Commissioner'. The individual could then say: 'A Commissioner for what?' The individual could offer some rather insulting remarks. We find that under the legislation he is liable for a penalty of $1,000 or imprisonment for 6 months for having insulted or disturbed a Commissioner in the exercise of his powers or the performance of his functions or duties as a Commissioner. 
I submit that these sorts of clauses are very wide in their operation and ought to be looked at and that the Government ought to pay far greater heed to the comments of organisations like the Council for Civil Liberties which offered comment on earlier Bills and which organisations, having regard to the time involved for the members to consider this important piece of legislation, would have been prevented from offering similar comment on this Bill. It is important I believe that all honourable members look to this aspect of the freedom of the individual when considering important legislation like this. I think they should not in any way be intimidated by the very desirable objectives thai the Bill is seeking to achieve. 
The other matter that I want to mention is also a procedural matter that has been highlighted by the honourable member for Gwydir who preceded me in this debate. He mentioned particularly clause 6. An indication has been given in the Bill that there would be administrative procedures that would be brought before the Parliament at a later date and on a number of dates in fact. It is quite clear that we do not know when we are considering this very important legislation what sort of procedures are going to be laid down ultimately for the consideration of these sorts of proposals. I believe that we have erred as parliamentarians in allowing over the past years numbers of Bills to come before us which provide that the major substantive law making provisions are going to be dealt with by way of regulations that can be promulgated or procedures that can be promulgated, brought into effect and can be operating for some time before this Parliament is able to consider them and subsequently disallow them if they are unreasonable. I think this procedure is bad in principle and I am somewhat aghast that in legislation of this type we can have this sort of procedure used when we are trying to achieve very desirable objectives. 
It appears to me that this Government is prepared to overlook very many matters when seeking to achieve its ends, and I believe that the end does not always justify the means. For this reason, if I were a senator and able to consider this matter, I would be very reluctant to pass this Bill unless very substantial amendments were made in those areas in which civil liberties are clearly involved. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia', by  Mr J.  J. Spigelman, in particular, pages 177 to 180, 'An Inside Dopesters Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy '. 
If so, does the publication specify that these one hundred items of information were not publicly disclosed up until 1972. 
How many of these items have been made publicly available since he first took office. 
If all of them are not now readily available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy in each case. 
Of those available, when and in what manner were the public disclosures made. 
By whom were these public disclosures made. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1  ) Have Leo Burnett Pry Ltd, Melbourne been appointed advertising agents or consultants to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
If so is this firm a foreign-owned advertising agency, within the definition adopted for companies in the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. 
What is the estimated turn-over on which this account is based. 
Were any non-foreign owned advertising agencies invited to make submissions for this account; if so, what agencies made submissions. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Is the  Mr Brendan  Hansen appointed by him to assist in liaising with local government organisations and sporting, recreational and tourist groups on the planning of leisure facilities and assistance available for projects through his Department, the same  Mr Brendan  Hansen who was formerly the Member for Wide Bay and who was the unsuccessful ALF candidate in the 1 974 election. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister receive advice from the former Minister for Immigration that it was proposed to establish in the City of Parramatta an office of the Depanment of Immigration to assist particularly in the fields of local migrant welfare, information, education and the issue of passports. 
If so, has the Minister been advised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that the Department of Labor and Immigration no longer intends to open in Parramatta an office specialising in migrant affairs. 
If so, what proposals does the Department of Foreign Affairs now have to provide a specialised service for migrants in the Western Suburbs in the special field of the issue of passports. 
I want tonight to draw the attention of members of the House to some newspaper articles and in particular one headed: 'Jobless may flower in Port Fairy'. The stories that we have seen have related to the joint State and Federal action in Victoria where the growing of certain opium poppies has been restricted by government action. This government action, the reports have stated, has threatened the jobs of 40 people in Port Fairy. It is alleged that 7 per cent of the workforce in that city will in fact be out of work as a result of the loss of these jobs. These people are employed in the factory of Glaxo Australia 
Pty Ltd. Opium poppies are in fact grown in Australia now. The growing is restricted to Tasmania where some 3000 acres are permitted to be grown. It appears that a security risk is alleged if opium poppies are grown more widely than simply in Tasmania as at present. There are, and have been set out in reports, detailed security arrangements that are given effect to in Tasmania where these poppies are presently grown. It seems that those arrangements can be given effect to at a certain cost. It has been estimated, for me, that the cost is approximately $10 per kilo of the product. 
The company has sought to expand the places at which it can produce the opium poppies to fulfil its needs. It believes that it can market opium derivatives more widely than it can simply in Australia. There is, in fact, a world shortage of legitimately produced opium. The medical uses to which opium derivatives can be put are probably well known. The alkaloids of the opium poppy yield several related drugs, some of which have use in medical practice. Others have certain undesirable side effects and are not permitted to be used for medical purposes. Neither opium, nor its derivative heroin, is used medically in Australia. The opium poppy derivatives which are used medically in Australia include morphine, which is a potent analgesic which relieves most kinds of severe pain. Its addictive qualities make it necessary for its use to be medically necessary and carefully supervised. There are certain morphine derivatives such as codeine, which is a mild analgesic and cough suppressant. There is the papaverine group of drugs which are used in the management of coronary and vascular disease cases. There is methadone, which is an addictive drug, and which is at present used in a limited way for weaning heroin addicts. Although addictive, it offers the heroin addict an improved chance of successfully ending his period of addiction. It has been put to me that the wholesale value of opium derivatives used in Australia is probably in the area of $1.5m per annum. Nevertheless these drugs are significant agents in medical practice. 
The world situation in relation to supplies of opium is rather confused, especially because of the attempts of the United States and the United Nations in recent years to reduce the amount of poppy cultivation to that level which is actually required for licit and medical purposes. Despite the fact that Turkey has reduced its poppy cultivation, there is probably little doubt that world production is considerably in excess of licit demand. However, the growth in demand for medical products is rapid, and the fact that illegal drug users pay higher prices than are paid by legal users may serve to divert a large proportion of opium production, creating an artificial shortage for legal users. A newsletter was produced by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association in the United States which records certain evidence given to a United States committee. Appearing before that committee was a representative of the 3 licensed importers of opium in the United States of America. Included among the companies named in the Newsletter were Merck and Company, S. B. Penick and Company, Bristol Laboratories and Riker Laboratories. The Newsletter states: 
McGrew's  supply and demand projections for opiumbased products during 1975 and onward were bleak. 
That company's representative said that during the first 10 months of 1974 the sales of codeine exceeded the imports of crude opium by more than 100 per cent and that the only reason why all 3 processors were not closed down and shortages had not been felt yet at the pharmacy level was the release by the Government in December 1973 of 238 tons of opium from the strategic materials stockpile. The Newsletter went on to state that more than 60 per cent of this stockpile, which was meant to extend over a 5-year period, was already exhausted. The representative of the company predicted that a slight increase in India's poppy production, if the weather improved, and further use of the stockpile would provide about 80 per cent of the medical demand in 1975. He went on to say: 
The impact will gradually reach the consumer level as it becomes difficult, and then virtually impossible, to fill codeine prescriptions at the pharmacy and in the hospital. 
The company has suggested that a formal program of rationing bulk codeine will be inevitable in 1975. 
I do not know and have not been able to check adequately for my own purposes whether those projections are in fact correct, but it does seem to be a fact that stockpile sources in the United States have been eaten into by this demand and that that is why people are worrying. I do not know whether in fact we have any strategic stockpile in Australia. I suspect that we probably do not, although it seems apparent that we are able to produce sufficient for our own purposes at the moment, it does seem to me that larger quantities or these drugs could be genuinely produced for licit purposes and could provide employment opportunities for people in Australia. It think it is pertinent to note- I certainly have noted- that the employees of the particular company that are suffering unemployment are in the electorate of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I spoke to him today to ascertain his attitude before I spoke on this important matter. He agrees with the comment that I have made that it would be most desirable, provided satisfactory security arrangements were madeand I believe that they can be made- if the resources were actually widened and it were made possible for more growers to enter the market. 
It seems quite clear from the public comments that have been made that poppy cultivation is more difficult than the growth of other possible crops in Tasmania. Despite a substantial increase in the contract rates by Glaxo Aust Pty Ltd, the company has been unable to attract a greater contract area than 3000 acres in Tasmania. It seems to be generally agreed by the company that if it wanted further acres in Tasmania the Government there would probably be persuaded to permit it to expand in that area, but the farmers seem to be unwilling to grow poppies. I have also seen articles in the South Australian Advertiser' that indicate that a number of farmers on Kangaroo Island are considering a proposal to produce poppies for codeine. Their proposals have been put to the Government of that State. 
My submission is that the Government ought to review these decisions. I believe that the security steps that we would all demand and see as necessary could be taken and, as a result, we could produce this product for world purposes, supplying not only our own needs but also the needs of other countries- needs that, from what I have read, seem to be very apparent and immediate. As a result we could also improve the employment opportunities in the Port Fairy area, which have been jeopardised by the decisions which have been taken to date. 
I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  a matter that I have mentioned to him privately, and that is my disappointment that in relation to clause 65 no amendment has been forthcoming to deal with the matter of averment clauses. I hope that in future consideration of this Bill some attention Will be given to this matter with a view to reading down the terms of the Bill. I am prepared to keep my remarks short in order to facilitate the debate. I hope that the nodding of the Minister's head is a form of undertaking that this matter will be looked into and that some suitable amendments wil be brought forward when the legislation is dealt with at a future date. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. The Minister will no doubt be aware of the Prime Minister's commitment to curtail Government expenditure, finally adopting another of the positive proposals of this Opposition. To what extent does that commitment mean that each of the programs for area improvement schemes, sewerage, umbrella legislation, Darwin reconstruction expenditure, growth centres and land commissions will be limited or curtailed? 
I rise to support this very important Australia Council Bill. I wish perhaps to put a more parochial emphasis on it in part because I want to discuss particularly the aspects of community arts. Nevertheless I support entirely the suggestions of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as to the manner in which a Liberal-Country Party government would approach the Australia Council. When I learnt that the changed name of the Australian Council for the Arts would be the Australia Council, although there seems to be unanimity on the adoption of that name, I thought that I should record my doubts as to whether that is an appropriate name for this statutory corporation. 
-I believe that an organisation that is responsible for the matters that this organisation is being given power to deal withand those objects are stated in the Bill- ought not to be able to live under a name that does not indicate clearly what are its functions, obligations and objects. The name 'Australia Council' could mean anything. It could almost be an organisation of local government councils that had come together for some purpose. 
-I appreciate that the term will have international precedents. I have heard those before. But I personally believe that in the minds of people an organisation ought to be able to be related clearly by its name to the objectives it has. However, that is incidental. Parties all agree generally on the adoption of the name. I personally do not believe that is a good name for an organisation of this type. 
I want to express my regret that it has taken so long for this Bill to come before the House. I believe that it may well have been because the Government was considering amendments. But as it is being adopted in the form in which it was originally presented, I am surprised that it has been delayed for so long. I understand that because of this the present Australian Council for the Arts had considerable difficulty with its staffing arrangements, the hiring of personnel and in being able to get on with the job that is seen as being important and which we all acknowledge is important. I personally support the concept of an Australian Council that is independent of politics and, in effect, politicians. 
The area that I wanted to deal with particularly in my short address tonight concerns the role of the community arts. Honourable members will realise that the Australian Council is to have 7 boards. The Minister has power to appoint more boards by notice in the Australian Government Gazette. But it seems that the Council will continue to operate with boards responsible for theatre, music, crafts, visual arts, literature, film and television and Aboriginal arts. Community arts, as set out in the annual report of the Australian Council for the Arts, function under a separate committee made up of members of the various boards. The report states: 
The establishment of the Community Aits Fund served two purposes, to service multi arts applications and to make special provisions for the development of broader community participation. The specialist Boards would be dealing largely with applications for assistance from artists and arts organisations, and the funds would tend to flow directly to the ans. The Community Arts Fund would tend to provide money to non arts community groups and organisations, and in this way it could assist in diffusing government funds more widely into the community. 
I certainly would not object to those objectives, but I look at the clauses of the Bill which establish the arts boards and I look particularly at clause 22, which has been commented on earlier. It states that a majority of members of a board for the time being shall be persons who practice the arts or are otherwise associated with the arts. That clause gives to the Minister a discretion as to whom he should appoint. I would like to believe that the Prime Minister in making these appointments would give consideration to appointing people to those boards who would have an interest in the community arts because unless members of those boards that are established have that interest there will not be the personnel who will have this understanding of the needs of the community arts in general. 
We all acknowledge- other honourable mem-, bers have spoken on this tonight- the importance of the community arts. Reference has been made to a decision made at a recent meeting of an outside organisation which has indicated to the Government that it expects a greater sum of money to be spent on the community arts, and the suggestion was that that would be 25 per cent of the moneys allocated. When one considers that there are 7 boards and there is a Community Arts Fund and 25 per cent of the money allocated is to be spent by a committee made up of representatives of those 7 boards, one might well be concerned at the manner in which the priorities will be established. I am not suggesting, having regard to past experience, that one ought to have those doubts. Personally, in the relationship that I have had to date with officers of the Australian Council for the Arts I would have little doubt. But the possibilities are there, in the very format that we are establishing for these matters to be considered, that the community arts in particular might not be advantaged in the best possible way. 
Some of the doubts that people have in relation to the community arts I believe were summed up in a report produced by the Australian Department of Tourism and Recreation. It mentioned the arts in general and it stated: 
Increasing attention is being given by all levels of government to fostering public participation in the Arts. The Australian Council for the Arts, through its community Arts Fund, has provided subsidies to local government and similar bodies for the employment of Community Arts Officers. In addition, the Council itself employs field officers who are available to local areas on a short-term basis. In most instances the work of such a field worker has led to the subsequent appointment of a permanent Ans Officer. 
At present this remains a relatively small program. Appointment and orientation of staff has been forced to be carried out on a pragmatic but somewhat ad hoc basis. Ap-  propriately  trained personnel are urgently required for this eve of work and at least some of these may well be drawn from courses in recreation studies. This will, of course, be dependent upon the breadth of focus within recreation schools and upon the extent to which students are able to develop an appropriate orientation of the Arts. This in itself would greatly foster the integration of the Arts into total recreation planning and help to overcome the prevailing false view of the Arts as something separate and perhaps effeminate or eccentric. This is certainly a diminishing prejudice but one still finds many expressions of it in local communities. 
My visit to the Australian Council for the Arts convinced me of one thing: In the city of Sydney there is a clear disorientation in the area of community arts and expenditure on the community arts is primarily in the northern and eastern suburbs of Sydney. There is a map on the wall which honourable members ought to see. It indicates that to date the western suburbs of Sydney have received little in the way of benefits even from the community arts program. I am not being critical of the officers involved because I know of the efforts of the officer serving in my area. I have endeavoured where possible to assist him in locating people interested in the arts, in fostering local organisations and in finding the people who are prepared to work in developing arts programs locally. 
But my problem and the problem of those people who are working in the western suburbs is exemplified by the very kind letter which I received from the Executive Officer of the Australian Council for the Arts. She kindly informed me that on 2 1 January 1975 that for the calendar year 1974 Parramatta, a major city with a huge population and a huge commercial area- and bear in mind that Parramatta is the major city in the western suburbs of Sydney and is notjust representative of my electorate; the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and their electors look to Parramatta as the major centre of their districts- received a grant of $800 to offset the costs of drama and dance performances at the festival organised by the Parramatta Foundation Week Festival Committee. That function was held during Foundation Week late last year and I had the privilege of attending it in Prince Alfred Park. It was an excellent function. Some$800 was provided towards that festival and the sum of $3,010 was provided to the Children's Free Embassy, under the care of  Mr Gil  Weaver of 33 Herring Road, Eastwood, for materials, tutors and expenses for arts, holiday camps for disadvantaged children. I have written to  Mr Weaver  but until recently I had not come across him. 
There are many organisations in the area which are concerned with developing and fostering an interest in the arts in all its forms mentioned in the objectives of this Bill. I can understand the concern of the Labor Party Conference which wanted to change this emphasis in funding. We can see from the grants mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his Press statement of 23 August 1974 that the community arts fund and international program had available in all States $52,730, Aboriginal arts had $120,606, the crafts had $5,620, the theatre had $19,910 and the visual arts had $214,151.I have here the annual report of the Australian 
Elizabethan Theatre Trust. I am not in any way criticising it as an organisation. I value very much the activities that it runs and those that I as a member for the western suburbs am occasionally able to enjoy in the City of Sydney. The  Chairman  's address in that report states: 
I am glad to advise that the Council - 
Speaking of the Australian Council for the Arts-  has continued to subsidise the Trust by increased grants for its main activities as shown hereunder:- 

<graphic href="093131197502206_75_0.jpg"></graphic>

These funds are certainly large by comparison with the amount of money made available in 1974 for the community arts fund-$52,730-the sum I mentioned earlier in my speech. This matter does concern me. I believe that it is important for people who are not able to participate in arts programs arranged and held in the principal cities to be able to participate in them in the country and in the areas outside our major metropolises. These are important and the fact that only 5 per cent of the money was made available for community arts expenditure shows that there ought to be changed priorities. There ought to be an emphasis on facilities being made available for these types of programs. 
One of the problems of the single community arts officer serving the western suburbs of Sydney is in finding suitable locations for people to enjoy the programs that might be arranged. We have in Parramatta, for instance, very few facilities available for the performing arts. The 'Q' theatre has been running workshops which have had to be held in the old Kings School hall that now forms part of the Marsden Rehabilitation Centre. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, might recall that he addressed a Labor Party meeting there some time ago and he might remember the facilities - 
-Yes, it is a lovely hall with a lovely outlook, but it has very poor facilities for holding major theatrical performances. 
-I am sure you did. 
-I know little of his performance. I was not invited on that occasion although I get to most events held in my district. But I think that this hall which has been made available to the 'Q' theatre, kindly by the New South Wales State Government which administers the Marsden Rehabilitation Centre, is the only building that is suitable in the district for these sorts of performances. Admittedly the Government, if the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has his way, might develop community theatre facilities in the proposed Commonwealth office block to be built in the city of Parramatta. Personally, and I propose to express my belief in other places shortly, I do not believe those facilities ought to be developed in an office block complex. There is an urgent need for those types of facilities in this district, not because they would serve the electorate of Parramatta but because they would serve as a centre for the entire western suburbs of Sydney. The fact is that all district transport comes to the city of Parramatta. Yet, the community in that area lacks these sorts of facilities. 
There is an urgent need for us all to recognise that if community arts are to be brought into areas like the western suburbs those facilities have/ to be provided. I emphasise the need for these facilities. I want to acknowledge the help and assistance that I have had from the community arts officer in my own district. Admittedly he has been working very hard in the electorates of Chifley, Prospect and Mitchell. But I think perhaps the greater emphasis ought to be placed on Parramatta because of the particular role that I have mentioned the city has in the total district. It is clear that, notwithstanding the excellent efforts that the community arts officer has made in identifying the people who are prepared to form and maintain the Parramatta Symphony Orchestra, the local organisers who have run Foundation Week as a festival without grants to date except for the $800 that I mentioned earlier, the people concerned with the Parramatta Ans Society and the Parramatta Musical Society and his efforts in bringing the 'Q' theatre to the district, those efforts have not yet been rewarded with grants. 
I want to emphasise that the Australian Council, as it will shortly be called, ought not to forget these areas, It ought to see that personnel are available to expand the role of the community arts and to ensure that funds are available. I want to emphasise once more my own concern that those persons who are appointed by the Minister to the various boards ought to have some interest and some knowledge of community arts and that those persons who are then co-opted into the financial area and who will be responsible for arranging the expenditure of community art funds ought to have a specialised knowledge and interest that will enable them to ensure that areas like the western suburbs of Sydney are not neglected. I mention this not because I want to score any points off the Government but in order to highlight what I believe would be the bipartisan interest of all members in ensuring that districts like this receive the real benefit of the funds that are available through the Council. 
asked the minister for Education, upon notice: 
Did he receive advice from the former Minister for Immigration that it was proposed to establish in the City of Parramatta an office of the Department of Immigration to assist particularly in the fields of local migrant welfare, information, education and the issue of passports. 
If so, has he been advised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that the Department of Labor and 
Immigration no longer intends to open in Parramatta an office specialising in migrant affairs. 
If so, what proposals does his Department now have to provide a specialised service for migrants in the Western Suburbs in the special field of education. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 195, relating to grants pursuant to the Sewerage Agreements Act 1973, which I placed on the Notice Paper on 16 July 1974 and which question was additionally first placed on the Notice Paper as question No. 5 10 on 2 1 March 1 974 prior to the dissolution of the 28th Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did he receive advice from the former Minister for Immigration that it was proposed to establish in the City of Parramatta an office of the Department of Immigration to assist particularly in the fields of local migrant welfare, information, education and the issue of passports 
If so, has he been advised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that the Department of Labor and Immigration no longer intends to open in Parramatta an office specialising in migrant affairs. 
If so, what proposals does his Department now have to provide a specialised service for migrants in the Western Suburbs in the special field of migrant welfare. 
I would like to thank the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for his spirited defence of me and other honourable members. I do not in any way disagree with his remarks. I was not aware of this particular effort on the part of the Government at least partly to solve the unemployment problems in the district. However, I shall take very careful note of the qualifications which the honourable member specified in looking for somebody to assist me in my work which is just as voluminous, just as difficult and just as demanding as that which I acknowledge most honourable members experience. 
I am not going to comment on the quality of his representation. I might be encouraged to say things that I might live to regret. Tonight I want to take this opportunity to deal with the remarks made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  one night last week when he suggested that I ought to make an obeisance not only to the Chair but also to the Government. He was indicating that the present Government has done a great deal in the western suburbs of Sydney for which I ought to be personally grateful.  His  remarks arose out of a question that I directed last week to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Honourable members will recall the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he indicated that the Government had a commitment to curtail the growth in government expenditure, and I questioned the Minister in relation to that matter. I asked whether the Minister was finally adopting another positive proposal of the Opposition. My question continued: 
To what extent does that commitment mean that each of the programs for area improvement schemes, sewerage, umbrella legislation, Darwin reconstruction expenditure, growth centres and land commissions will be limited or curtailed? 
I was grateful to hear the Minister make it clear that in the area of urban and regional development which is one of the largest expenditure areas, there was no intention on his part to allow the Prime Minister to prune the expenditure of his Department. I must admit that in my particular area I would not like to see a curtailment of the limited amount of money that has already been spent. I must admit also that I was interested to know whether the limited programs were to be curtailed. But I wanted to make it clear that it was not me or the Opposition but in fact the Government that wanted to have its cake and eat it too. Quite clearly- I might well do this- if I asked every Minister who is in charge of expenditure programs whether program cuts would occur in his area of responsibility I am sure I would get the same reply as that spirited defence that came from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, because obviously the Government does not have any intention of curbing expenditure. One has only to look for an example at the expenditure on employment schemes, which are another attempt to overcome the problems that were created by the Government's expenditure. Vast increases in expenditure in various areas have in part brought about the situation that we are now experiencing. 
I want to go through in particular the remarks made by the honourable member for Chifley because he referred in particular to the electorate of Parramatta and the so-called benefits that were given to that electorate. In fact, there were a number of inaccuracies in his remarks. He suggested that the Grants Commission had given the sum of $315,000 to the electorate of Parramatta. He said: 
The municipal councils in the electorate of Parramatta are to receive a minimum of $3 15,000. 
That amount in fact was given to the city of Parramatta, and I need not point out that the city of Parramatta is also substantially in the electorate of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Not only the electorate of Parramatta is served by the city of Parramatta; a substantial part of the city of Parramatta is within the electorate of Mitchell. While the Minister is prompting the honourable member for Chifley at this stage that there are other municipalities within the boundaries of the city of Parramatta, I would hasten to point out that the Minister was not aware of that fact until I wrote to him on 16 September and pointed out that a number of other councils came within that division. If one were to look at the boundaries of, say, Baulkham Hills, the small area of Holroyd, perhaps the very small area of Ryde, or the single sub-division of Epping that happens to be in the Shire of Hornsby, one would realise that those areas would add very little to the amounts which are being mentioned. 
One has to look at these amounts in perspective. The city of Parramatta has suffered rate rises of some 35 per cent. Why is it that in this time when the Grants Commission is making available these amounts of money we have a rise in rates of some 35 per cent and a number of other municipalities in the city of Sydney have larger rises? The reason for that is the failure of the Government to be able adequately to manage the economy of this country. All of those councils have seen vast increases occur in their expenditures through the excessive wage demands generated as a result of the Government's economic policy. One has to look at these things in the totality of the situation and the totality of the situation is that, notwithstanding the grants that are being made now, these councils cannot continue to employ the personnel that they have, cannot continue to operate at the same rate as they did formerly and cannot continue to provide the same services as they were able to provide formerly. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Chifley in his speech on the Western Suburbs area improvement scheme and he mentioned the princely sum of $690,000 that was made available to the electorate of Parramatta for area improvement projects. I took the time to go through the amounts allocated in the advances last year to the City of Parramatta and to each of the other municipalities within my electorate. The total sum that I could find spent was $390,000. If honourable members want me to go through those grants I can. There was a grant of $60,000 to the City of Parramatta planning scheme; there was a grant of $20,000 for the Parramatta seawall; and there was a grant of some $300,000 for the acquisition of land. 
-The Labor Government. The very point I am making is that the honourable member for Chifley has come into this House and said that the sum given was $690,000 whereas in actual fact the sum given was $390,000. 
-Yes, he was about half right. That is what one expects from the honourable member when he makes remarks of this type. The amounts that he said were given as gifts were in fact given illusorily, as I have quite clearly pointed out. I want to take the honourable member for Chifley on to the grants made under the Western Suburbs area improvement scheme this year. Not only were the amounts available to the Western Suburbs halved from the $4.5m given last year to an amount of $2m this year but also the City of Parramatta only received these sums: Twenty thousand dollars to develop parkland in association with Colquhoun Park between Lavinia and Adam Streets in Granville, which happens to be in the electorate of Reid; $20,000 for a tree planting program with priority to be given to the Granville area- I have assumed that some of that might have been in relation to the electorate of Parramatta; and $10,000 for preliminary clearing of the development on the Duck Creek River parklands in close association with the Auburn Council. A sum of $50,000 was also given to the electorate of Mitchell and of $30,000 to the electorate of Parramatta. A total of $50,000 was the princely sum given. 
If I went through the list and compared the amounts given to the electorate of Parramatta with the amounts given to the electorate of Reid, the electorate of Chifley and the electorate of Prospect under the area improvement scheme I would find a bias of considerable magnitude. There are areas of the electorate of Parramatta, such as Dundas Valley, Ermington and Rydalmere, which are as deprived as any other area of Sydney. I am personally ashamed about the directions coming from the Department of Urban and Regional Development that Granville ought always to receive priority when grants are made to the City of Parramatta. Rather than do obeisance, I propose to take up this matter as regularly as I can and to point out how clearly this program is being used, I submit, as pork-barrelling in areas of the Western Suburbs to the advantage of the electorates of the honourable members I have mentioned and not those of - 
It is a pleasure to be able to participate in this debate because I am very concerned about the state of housing in this country. I should like particularly to take up some of the comments of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who preceded me in this debate. He referred to the New South Wales and Victorian governments. Honourable members may recall that when he made his allegations that those governments discriminate against rent payers I asked him for evidence. I challenge any honourable member to produce facts instead of allegations to substantiate such a claim. I am ashamed that a South Australian should come into this chamber and say, with his limited experience, that there is discrimination in New South Wales without facts to substantiate his allegation. I recall well that the New South Wales and Victorian governments have expressed the desire to promote as far as possible home ownership within their States. What they did not want forced on them was a situation where rental accommodation was specified as being a fixed percentage of the amount of accommodation that they had to build and provide. 
-It may have welcomed it within the limits of its financial capacity to build this sort of accommodation having regard to the needs. The Minister's interjection highlights my point that the New South Wales Government has not discriminated against rent payers in its philosophies and approaches. That was an allegation unsubstantiated by evidence but simply by innuendo. One of the problems of this House today, exemplified by the behaviour we have seen this morning, is that Government supporters are prepared to make these sorts of allegations often but if they suspect that there is even a slight whisper about themselves at any time they shout with indignation like pricked pigs. On this occasion we have seen unsubstantiated remarks without any evidence. 
The honourable member for Kingston called for direct subsidies for rent payers. He looked at the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and asked:  'Mr Minister,  have we some provision in this Bill for rent payers?' I was not at all surprised that the Minister said, 'Of course, of course', because this Bill, as the Government sees it, has in it the panacea to solve all the problems it has created in the housing field. When his colleagues are looking for an excuse for their constituents the Minister is quite prepared to say that this Bill will cover anything his colleagues are worried about. In bis second reading speech the Minister was careful to excuse the Bill so that there would be no possible conflict with State authorities. I propose to take honourable members through that speech and to examine a number of his comments, then to take them through the Bill because quite clearly there is no reference in the Minister's speech to the sort of powers this Bill assumes for him and the Government. It does assume powers for him because he has power to direct his Corporation as to how it is to behave. I am prepared to support, in principle, the comments of the honourable member for Kingston in calling for the Government to plan how it is to operate our economy and to make announcements so that people in private industry- home builders, developers, home buyers and even the people who want to rent homes- will know with certainty how they will be affected. The most important problem that we face at this time in our economy is that we do not know how the Government will act next. 
I would support any commission or indicative planning committee that is able to bring forward positive suggestions as to how the Government will manage the economy responsibly in order to provide an economic climate in which homes can be provided for people who need them. But there is no certainty that this will emerge from this Bill. The Minister's comments may well relate to the Housing Indicative Planning Council that he has set up, and I will believe that there will be results from it when I start to see them. Until the present time that Council has met only once or twice. The Minister made a speech to the Council to indicate what is expected of it, and the  Chairman  of the Council has made a little speech, but we know nothing of how it will function. Certainly the Council has not come forward with a report demanding that the Bill is needed to enable the Council to carry out the sort of planning that is necessary. 
It is important that we should look at our economy and that we should realise that there are problems in it. I need not go through these problems in detail, but it may give weight to my views if I refer honourable members to the publication entitled Monthly Review of the Employment Situation January 1975 '. It shows that in the skilled building and construction area 14 068 male people were registered as unemployed at the end of January 1975, as against 4 331 in January 1974, 5 251 in January 1973 and 5 158 in January 1972. The Minister in his speech makes it quite clear that the Indicative Planning Council will not look at the wide ranging fields of housing commission development and public housing building development because he says that they are the responsibility of the States. But in Australia today there are 14068 building and construction workers unemployed- almost 3 times as many as there were in any of the preceding years to which I have referred, including the period in which the Opposition was in government. That is very relevant. Clearly by proper economic management a situation can arise in which people are not unemployed and in which homes are built for people who are demanding them. Experience demonstrates quite clearly that there is not an immediate demand for the type of corporation to be set up under this Bill. 
Certainly in the need area, that of welfare housing, the Minister, in his speeches but certainly not in the Bill, is abdicating responsibility for providing that form of housing- except in the sense that the Commonwealth will make moneys available to the State housing authorities, and those funds are welcome. 'Treasury Information Bulletin No. 77, January 1975', make it clear that the number of dwelling commencements also has declined in the most recent quarter. The publication states: 
. total dwelling commencements declined by 2 per cent in the December quarter following falls of 23 per cent in the preceding quarter and 9 per cent in the June quarter. The fall in the December quarter reflected a 7 per cent drop in private commencements which offset a substantial expansion in government commencements. 
Clearly there has been an increase in government housing. This is one of the things that worries me, because I personally am convinced that most people in Australia like to be able to plan themselves the home in which they will live, without having it forced upon them and without having the situation in which governments provide housing in the cheapest possible waywhich means uniformity of housing, lack of different designs and an unexciting environment in which to live. This is one of the real concerns that I have about this legislation. 
Notwithstanding the delightful phrases that the Minister used in his second reading speech, this Bill certainly does not in any way indicate to me that the Government wants less involvement. It indicates that the Government wants greater involvement, and we all know the results that that produces. The 'Treasury Information Bulletin' indicates that during the December quarter of 1974 only 40,300 dwellings were completed, which was 3 per cent less than in the December quarter of 1973. These figures are important because what is happening is that fewer homes are being built and there is no suggestion that the Government, as a result of a Bill of the type that we are discussing, will be able to manage the economy any better in order to enable people to buy their own homes. I read the Minister's Press statement on this matter in which it was suggested that the specific schemes which were not yet finalised covered a wide range of options and one of these was to make second mortgage loans to cover deposit gaps with graduated repayments. I could not object to that as an option but what I would like to see is a Bill which' makes provision for that. Certainly there is nothing in this Bill which indicates, firstly, that money will be positively appropriated or, secondly, that the Commission will operate in such a way as to provide this benefit. If the Government has this as a policy what I want to see is a Bill brought into the Parliament to give effect to it. 
One could go through each of the other positive proposals put but what I submit is that if these are the positive policies of the Government and they are not coming forward in legislative form this Bill is being used as an excuse to say: We have acted, we have provided you with these things which we believe are desirable,' whereas in fact the Corporation might not be able to do these things at all or might not be directed to do these things and in fact has no responsibility for doing these things. We all know what weight there is in speeches made by honourable members, including Ministers, when it comes to interpreting Acts of Parliament. 
Nil; quite right. That is why I take honourable members to the Bill itself because it is important to look at clause 6 (2) which reads: 
The Corporation also has, subject to and in accordance with this Act, the following functions: 
to grant money for the building of dwellings, the purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings; 
to build dwellings or take part in, or be associated with, the building of dwellings; 
to sell and lease dwellings built, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation; 
to provide, or ensure the provision of, facilities and services for persons in dwellings with which the Corporation is concerned; and 
such functions as are conferred on the Corporation by any Act. 
These are the functions of a housing commission; these are the functions of an organisation that has the responsibility for providing and building estates of a uniform nature as we have seen built by the Housing Commission of New South Wales. Yet when we go to the Minister's second reading speech what do we find? We find glib assurances that these are not the objectives at all. The Minister in his second reading speech said, and this is more important: 
. a powerful new vehicle - 
That is exactly what it is, a powerful new vehicle-  capable if properly directed - 
I do not know what he means by that-  of fulfiling our national housing aspirations. 
-I thank honourable members on this side for their co-operation in helping to interpret these comments. I would submit that these comments certainly indicate what is intended by this Bill and that is the creation of a powerful new vehicle. Those are the words that are used. Clause 6 continues: 
The Corporation may perform its functions to the extent only that they relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws and, in particular, may perform its functions- 
in a Territory; 
for the purpose of the provision of housing for members and former members of the Defence Force and for other persons who have participated in the defence of Australia; 
by way of, or as incidental to, the provision of family allowances; 
d ) for the purpose of the provision of housing for the aboriginal people of Australia, immigrants to Australia, persons employed in or by Departments or authorities of Australia and persons engaged in work for Australia or an authority of Australia; or 
My concern about this particular provision is that by the very matter of the Commonwealth's taking unto itself the greatest possible power it can assume under the Constitution- and that is what the Minister is seeking by this powerful new vehicle- it is assuming responsibility for only some people within the Commonwealth of Australia. This is a vehicle that will enable this organisation to provide for some people selectively. 
I am not suggesting that those people should not receive housing, but what I am saying is that, if a 
Commonwealth vehicle is set up to deal with particular people and the remainder are left to fend for themselves or with the State authorities, that in my view is inadequate. It is a duplication and it is part of the problem of Government in Australia today. 
I want to take this opportunity in this debate to mention some very strong feelings that I have and to voice one of my anguishes as a Federal parliamentarian. We are dicussing matters relating to housing. It is proposed to set up a powerful new housing vehicle. While we are all very concerned about housing, while we all want to see housing provided for people, while we all want to see an economy in which housing can be created instead of an economy which has destroyed the ability of our community to create housing, we as parliamentarians are spending our time dealing with this and with a multitude of other matters which remove from us our ability to participate in decision-making in areas for which we have paramount responsibility. 
The Bill we are discussing is another example of the Government's bringing to itself power to deal with certain people in the community- and that is what has happened- while we abrogate our responsibility to deal with foreign affairs, immigration, defence- all the matters for which we have specific responsibility, about which I feel very concerned and on which I rarely have an opportunity to speak. We have seen on the part of this Government a number of actions to which I object very much. I want to use this debate to highlight one of them. It concerns me that the particular clause to which I have referred enables the Government to be selective in the way in which it provides for people. We have seen the Government use funds in a way in which I do not believe any previous government would have used government funds. We have seen produced a document - 
I have never seen in my time in this House a document produced, even by the Government of which the Minister is a member, that resembles in any way the document I have here. It is a document produced with government funds in bold blue and white. It is entitled: Housing Under Labor- Australian Government Achievements since 1972 by Les Johnson, Minister for Housing and Construction'. This document has been produced at the expense of the Australian people. It is not a document which lists the achievements of the Government; it is not a document which explains to people the benefits they may be able to derive from the policies of the Government. It is a document deliberately designed as a propaganda vehicle for the Government. 
-It is quite clearly for the Labor Party, as the honourabl member says. It is irresponsible. It is another example following on what we have seen today. It clearly shows how the Government is prepared to hang on to office at any cost- even to the extent of raping democracy. This Parliament has been abused, and the Public Service is abused when public servants in the Minister's Department are required to lend themselves to the production of a pure propaganda document. The Minister ought to be ashamed of himself, and I am ashamed for him. 
The Bill has in it powers that enable the Commonwealth Government to assume and take over land of the States. Clause 49 gives the Commonwealth power to acquire land, even Crown land of a State. In his second reading speech the Minister indicated that it was not intended that State lands would be taken over. Yet the Bill contains a clause of the widest possible nature. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Corporation would purchase land on its own account only to the extent that land required for its programs was not available from land commissions or their equivalents in the States. 
Yet clause 49 reads:   the Corporation may acquire by agreement or by compulsory process any land for the purposes of the Corporation, including, with the approval of the Minister- 
That is not the State Minister -  land that is Crown land of a State. 
This is supposed to be a Bill in which the Government co-operates with State governments to meet the housing needs of the Australian people. There is no doubt in my mind, having read the clauses in the Bill which assume powerparticularly the clauses that enable the Commonwealth to take over State land- that their purpose can be most insidious, that the legislation can operate in wider ways than any of us imagine. There are no restrictions in this Bill which would limit its operations. I think honourable members ought to concern themselves with the provisions of the Bill and not with the wild allegations that we have heard from members opposite of what they will do or hope to do. The reasons that we oppose the Bill in its present form is because of the provisions contained in the Bill. If the Government has real policy proposals let it put them forward in a positive form. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, this being the first opportunity that I have had in a debate to congratulate you on your assumption of the office of  Speaker,  I do so. I also wish to pay a short tribute to your predecessor,  Mr Speaker  Cope. When I was a new member in this House, notwithstanding that I was a Liberal member, he gave me a great deal of help and cooperation and certainly made my task considerably easier as I assumed the responsibilities that I undertake for my electorate. In offering my congratulations to you,  Sir, I  express the hope that you will accept this responsibility to offer to new members of this House the same degree of cooperation as I received from your predecessor. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who preceded me in the debate, made certain analogies with sailing. I have had some experience of sailing, and I was interested in his reference to tacking. He seems to have assumed that there was perhaps one boat tacking, whereas my experience of tacking duels is that they usually involve 2 boats. In this case we have seen changes of direction by the duellers on both sides. I refer particularly to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  because I think that in the tacking duel which it is alleged we have seen indulged in by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr 
Stewart) we have also seen a corresponding tacking action on the other side. This involves the amendments which have been foreshadowed by the Attorney-General. It clearly seems to be a tacking exercise designed to say to members of this House: 'If you think the view that the opponents of this Bill are putting is extreme, then there is an equally extreme view on the other side and perhaps you ought to come back to some middle point, that is, the Bill as originally proposed'. Supposing that one looks at these things as a tacking exercise, it is a legitimate way to undertake this task, but I have found considerable difficulty in deciding on which side of the House I should sit in considering the amendment I know perfectly well where I would sit concerning the Bill itself. 
I am persuaded to support the amendment simply because I believe that a better Bill will emerge if the Minister takes away with him the points that are made in this Debate and brings foward a Bill that takes them all into account. I am terribly fearful that if amendments that might be part of a scheme of amendments to improve the Bill are adopted in part we will end up with a hotch-potch of a Bill that will be quite unsatisfactory for the purposes for which we require a family law Bill to operate. It seems to me that the points that are being made- I believe the balance of probabilities is that this Bill will be amended- demand that the Bill be redrafted in the Attorney-General's office to give effect to the views that are expressed. In the tacking exercise we witnessed before, the Minister put forward a certain view on the effect of the amendment. He said th at the Bill would be lost. If he accepts that view, I am ashamed of him because I believe that this Bill has in it many very desirable objectives. If the Minister were to treat the carriage of the amendment as the defeat of the Bill and would not bring the Bill foward in an amended form, I would be most distressed. What I believe should happen is that cognisance ought to be taken of the arguments put and an improved Bill that is drafted in totality to give effect to all the matters that are necessary ought to come forward. It is for that reason that I support the amendment. As I shall show when I refer to these matters a little more fully later on, the amendment does not in its entirety meet with my approval either. I have the same difficulty with it as I have with the Bill. This is what makes my position so difficult. 
Most of the speeches in this debate have been well thought out. The one with which I find I share the most is the contribution of a member who spoke on the other side, and that was the contribution from the honourable member for 
Wentworth (Mr Ellicott) We differ in terms of the desirability of whether the amendment ought to be carried I have expressed the reasons why I think it " ought to be carried. Most honourable members come into this House with prejudices of one form or another. They are biased by their own values ' and experience. Many perhaps are persuaded by the multitude of representations they have received. I am not persuaded by the representations I have received. I appreciate that there are. arguments validly put on both sides. Unfortunately .a lot of the representations one receives adopt a black and white point of view and when you, get down to discussing the Bill from a black and white point of view you adopt arm's length approaches which I find are quite unsuitable. I am a lawyer. I am not experienced in this particular area of law but at least I am sufficiently familiar with it to know the anguish and heartbreak that many people experience when they., go through our present judicial system. . 
-It has nothing to do with the money. I am not convinced that this Bill will remove all that heartbreak. I am not convinced that there is any method that can be achieved to remove by legal action the sort of heartbreak that emerges- when a marriage, entered into voluntarily by 2 parties with the view that it will last them for life, is being put aside. I do not believe that the law or the legal profession can be blamed for that and my own experience has been that most lawyers- I use the word ' most' because I think perhaps there is a small number of lawyers who do not- certainly do not try to push parties into a divorce if they can avoid that possibility. I am concerned, however, and I will come to the matter in a little while, about the figures I received from the Marriage Guidance Council which indicate that very few referrals are made to it by legal practitioners of people who are in trouble; but I suppose that is a reflection of the fact that most people go into a legal practitioner's office only when they believe that the breakdown of the marriage has reached the point of no return. 
My own philosophy is a personal one. I profess that I am a Christian. I have values about marriage that I hold very strongly. I believe marriage should be for life. Notwithstanding my personal views I acknowledge that there are differences, that there are people who do not have the same religious values that I have and the law has to operate in a sectarian society, and that it has to operate in a way different from the way I would like it to operate in absolute terms. I acknowledge that the Bill must take public -interest into account. I very much support clause 43 although I do not propose to read it now. It is a very good clause in terms of what it expresses but I am not convinced that the Bill in its form before the House gives effect to it. I express my doubts as to the way in which clause 48 ought to be worded. 
The amendment moved and now before the House' is one that most honourable members have indicated they support. The honourable member for Melbourne, who preceded me in this debate, indicated that he wholeheartedly supported the first 6 points. My qualification, unfortunately, relates to point (f) of the amendment. I believe that it is an extreme and that it ought to have been more thoughtfully worded by the proposers. I caution that it is not my view that there is a need for children to be reared and cared for by a present parent in all cases, although I believe it is most desirable. There are many proper cases where a parent- sometimes both parents perhaps- is not able to participate in the rearing and it is probably better that he or she does not do so. It may be a case similar to my own. My wife and I have both undertaken professional obligations and we believe that it is in the interests of the upbringing of our child that both parents be allowed to pursue their careers notwithstanding the fact that it may not be the best for the child. The fact is that that child would be worse off if the mother or father were required to be at home, certainly distressed and I believe taking out that distress upon the child. That is the sort of qualification I see in respect of that clause of the amendment. As honourable members will hear from the amendments I personally prefer to see proposed to clause 48, 1 do not see objective grounds as being the resurrection of all the grounds that exist in the present Matrimonial Causes Act and I make this point clear. 
I support very strongly the view that the basis upon which a marriage ought to be dissolved is when the marriage has irretrievably broken down. I do not accept that 2 years in all cases is the most satisfactory period upon which to assess when a marriage has broken down, nor do I believe that in all cases one year is the most satisfactory. These tests are very difficult because one's understanding of the nature of a family varies with each family situation. I believe that, unfortunately, a single law without the widest possible discretions, is one which will not enable that law as it operates to take into account the varying situations. That is why I will propose a view different from that which has been proposed to date. 
The law at the moment provides for the majority of situations in which people want to be divorced. When I talk about 'people' I mean both parties to the marriage. In the multitude of cases, no demands are made for change. The call for change results from a minority of cases in which considerable hardship is caused to the parties involved. I believe that the Bill as proposed will perpetrate similar hardship for a minority of parties to marriages. It is for this reason that I believe the Bill as proposed is as unacceptable as the present law. But I do not want it to be taken that I in any way lack an appreciation of the advantages of this Bill as proposed. 
A lot of the emotive words that we have heard disguise the fact that the BUI has considerable advantage. It is only clause 48 to which i have real objection. I cannot agree with those people who suggest that the courts will not be able to make adequate provision for the parties to the marriage and, in that respect, I include wives who are described in all the various circumstances, and that the change of emphasis will in any way bring about a really different effect to that which takes place in our courts today. I believe that the Bill has been satisfactorily amended by the Senate to provide that the courts do have that discretion to be able to deal with all situations. 
I wish to deal with a number of the clauses of this Bill. Clause 14, which provides for the strengthening of counselling requirements, is I believe a good clause. I would propose one small amendment to it. I will come to that shortly. One has to look at the matter of counselling. In its report, the Marriage Guidance Council of New South Wales has made it clear that of the 2269 cases referred to it 1553 were self-employed and 75 were referred by legal organisations. I am somewhat surprised, as I mentioned earlier, at the small number of legal referrals to that organisation. There were more from medical practitioners, numbering 147. 1 believe that this clause will strengthen the prospects of lawyers making reference to marriage guidance organisations or to organisations established under the Act for proper counselling to take place. 
In relation to that clause, I mention that I have received, as a number of other honourable members may have received, a note from the Rev. Alan Walker, the Superintendent of the Central Methodist Mission. Making reference to clause 14 (3), he states: 
After the adjournment has taken place for counselling and either of the parties requests that the hearing be resumed, the judge is obliged to refer people for counselling. Unless this clause is strengthened to require a report to come to the judge, showing that counselling has actually occurred, it is of little practical significance. 
I agree with that submission. I believe that the court ought to know, in respect of parties who ask for a referral or are directed by the Court to be referred to such a service, what the result of that referral is and that the parties have submitted to the court's direction in such a way as to have at least brought about a reasonable attempt at achieving a reconciliation. 
I support the clause dealing with maintenance. I support clause 1 14 which provides for injunctions to be able to be granted in certain circumstances without the necessity of an earlier application. I support the principle of the abolition of damages for adultery and enticement. I support the financial obligation of each party to maintain the other with the court having the discretion to make the judgment between each of those parties. I support strongly the formation of the family law council to advise on amendments to the law and to operate on a continuing basis. I think this is essential. I support strongly the establishment of an Institute of Family Studies, provided that it operates in a way which promotes a real study of how the family unit may be strengthened. That ought to be its principal objective. In regard to that Institute, I particularly note the views of the Family Life Movement of Australia which wrote to me and indicated very strongly the need for pre-marital education at various levels. I hope that the Institute of Family Studies will closely examine this matter. In its submission to the Senate Standing Committee the Family Life Movement made detailed recommendations on the importance of pre-marital education at various levels. It regards such education as vitally significant and undoubtly a major contribution towards ensuring as far as possible that couples contemplating marriage understand what is involved, and that the marriage relationships into which they enter are likely to be of a stable and enduring nature. I strongly support that view. 
I could go on and deal with other clauses, but in view of the fact that time is limited I will move on to some of my reservations about the Bill. My reservations relate primarily to clause 48. 1 have mentioned why I have reservations about clause 48. It does not provide for a minority of situations. My view- this was contained in an amendment proposed originally by  Senator Baume-  is that the clause ought to be amended to provide for 3 grounds of divorce: Firstly, that the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 2 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of an application for dissolution of the marriage; secondly, that the parties have separated and lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of an application for dissolution of the marriage and neither party opposes the dissolution of the marriage, and thirdly, the misconduct of the respondent to the application is sufficiently grave and weighty to justify the other party terminating the matrimonial relationship. 
-That is so and, as I have said previously, his speech very much persuaded me. I believe that clause 3 would not ressurect the grounds that we have at the moment, and I certainly would not wish it to do that. This is my strong view. Such organisations as the Methodist Church in Canberra made it clear in its letter to honourable members that its commission agreed with the Senate amendment that at least 12 months separation should elapse before an application for divorce proceedings is made. It is amazing how reference is made to the churches being divided on these sorts of questions, but generally speaking when it comes to clause 48 it is my view that there has been a great deal of doubt as to whether the period should be 12 months, 2 years or some other period. 
The reason I support the varying tests that I have proposed is that I believe there are situations which will not be covered when there is only the simple ground for divorce of 12 months separation. I will cite some examples. There is the situation where a marriage is not consummated. Let us say that one party married a homosexual or a lesbian and there was no consummation of the marriage. I believe that under the law as proposed there is no basis on which that party could seek some immediate relief, yet such a person gets that relief now under the existing law. I believe it would be a hardship to make those parties continue in the marriage. The other example refers to a drunken spouse who beats the other party every day and every night but the other party maintains the marriage until the last of the children of the marriage is married. I believe that that party should not be required to wait a further period of 12 months before some remedy is available, although the remedy of injunction might be available if that party wanted to walk out. These things worry me, but there are a number of other clauses about which I am concerned. 
I refer particularly to the comments of the Law Society of Victoria on clause 22. 1 refer that matter to the Attorney-General because I believe that those comments were validly made. I do not have time to go into them in any detail. I have referred to the comments of the Reverend Alan Walker on clause 14 (3). I wish to refer to clause 90 which abolishes a State tax. I particularly wish to put the view that it is not and should not be the province of the Government in a Bill of this type to abolish a State duty without making some other arrangements for funding it. I understand from the Minister for Revenue and Assistant Treasurer in New South Wales- in fact, he is my father- that no advice has been received by that Government that this money will be made up. The view he puts is that if the Commonwealth believes that the collection of this revenue is wrong in principle it should arrange for .payment on behalf of the person liable. I put that point very strongly to the Minister. 
-Not on behalf ' of the Government, but I think the Minister might like to inquire as to what the State Government's view is. I refer to clause 6 which worries me greatly. It was questioned by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  and the doubts that he expressed about it are very valid indeed. I have the report which was circulated of the comments of  Senator Missen.  I am not persuaded by the comments he has made on page 1 , referring to the comments made by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation as reported at page 159 of Hansard, that that view is in fact correct. I believe that the view put on page 2 - 
-Clause 6 is, I believe, the key to the Bill. Sub-clause ( 1 ) reads: 
The principal function of the Corporation is, subject to and in accordance with this Act, to lend money for the building or purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings. 
Sub-clause (2) sets out certain additional functions of the Commission, which include: To grant money for the building of dwellings, to build dwellings, to sell and lease dwellings, and to provide or ensure the provision of facilities and services for persons in dwellings. Now we have the proposed additional function of lending and granting money for the payment of rent in respect of dwellings. Sub-clause (3) reads: 
The Corporation may perform its functions to the extent only that they relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws and, in particular, may perform its functions - 
The sub-clause then states that the Corporation may perform its functions in a territory; for the purpose of the provision of housing for members and former members of the defence force; by way of, or as incidental to, the provision of family allowances- that is the matter about which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  had a small altercation a moment ago- for the purpose of the provision of housing for the Aboriginal people of Australia, immigrants to Australia persons employed in or by departments or authorities of Australia and persons engaged in work for Australia or any authority of Australia. 
The fact is that the functions which the Corporation is to exercise are clearly related to those areas in which the Commonwealth has power to make laws. The Minister has tried to imply that by the .use of this rather nebulous placitum of section 5 1 of the Constitution which deals with family allowances a remarkable extension of power is going to be achieved. I very much doubt that that will be the case. I am not a constitutional expert, but I do not believe that a clause that is meant to provide a form of social service can be extended in this way, and I think that it wil cause grave doubts as to the operation of this particular clause. If one looks at the remaining functions that the Commonwealth is entitled to exercise, one can see that it is clearly limited to certain sections of people, even if one includes families. In fact, that is a class of people to which the operation of the functions of the Corporation are limited. This is going to bring about in a manner such as we have never seen before a form of sectionalism in terms of the benefits that can be made available to people. I submit that the only proper basis on which these sorts of functions can be exercised is for the. Commonwealth to enter into appropriate agreements with those States that have the powers and the constitutional competence to legislate in these areas and to develop programs which can give effect to them. 
The other matter with which I want to deal shortly is to make it clear that at the moment we have no real programs. The proposal is to establish a Corporation which is to exercise the widest possible functions. The Minister has tried to say: 'You have doubts as to the extent to which this is going to conflict with the functions of the State housing commissions. We are not really going to extend its operations that far. Accept my assurances that that is not our intention'. All of us know that whilst the Minister's assurances may be of some value to us here in the niceties of the way in which politics operate within this country, in terms of interpreting the law as it operates they are of no value at all. The courts do not look at the Minister's speech to find out what sort of operation this BUI was intended to have. They will not go through his speech and say that he said 'No, we Will not be conflicting with the housing authorities of the various States' if another Minister wants to exercise it in a different way. 
The Minister said to us: 'Stop shilly-shallying around. The Opposition should come out and tell us that it is in favour of the sorts of things that we want to do. ' I am prepared to say that I am quite clearly in favour of the provision of additional housing to meet housing needs. There is no doubt that aU of us on this side are in favour of these sorts of benefits for people in need, but we want the Minister to stop shilly-shallying around. We want him to acknowledge that this Corporation, exercising these functions, will not be able to achieve the benefits that he is suggesting it Will. We want him to acknowledge that he has no programs at the moment to which this Corporation wil give effect. 
In fact if one looks at the financing of this Bil at the moment one sees that no funds are available to it other than those funds that are available for defence, service homes. He tries to say: Do not believe that we are cutting down on our defence service homes obligations He tries to say, as he has said in his Press statements, that we must accept that the Corporation Will make second mortgage loans to cover deposit gaps, that it will provide special hardship assistance to home buyers temporarily out of work, that it wil make loans for private enterprise buildings and so on and that it Will lend to co-operative building societies. Nobody disputes these matters might well be matters in which the Commonwealth, in exercising its relations with the States, can well assist, but what we dispute is that the Commonwealth, in endeavouring to lay down as it is a platform of this nature and suggesting that it can be related to this BUI, is in fact being quite deceitful. 
It is being deceitful in suggesting that this Bill Will provide these sorts of benefits for people. That is the suggestion that is being made. The people who are in fact shilly-shallying around on this issue are the Government supporters and the Government Ministers who are trying to make it apparent that they are acting when in fact all we will see established is a corporation to fulfil functions that corporations already are fulfilling, and if it is to be extended any further, to duplicate functions that State authorities have, and if it is to be extended any further than that, to exercise them in such a way that it will be sectional and benefiting only some people to the exclusion of others. This clause is the key to the Bill and in that it is the key it demonstrates quite clearly why the totality of the Bill, including this clause, ought to be rejected. 
Progress reported. 
Declaration of Urgency 
-Did the Prime Minister, on 18 February or thereabouts, write to a senior Sydney businessman with Middle East government connections saying that not only is it no secret that he regretted the need for the Government decision on the Palestine Liberation Organisation visas but also if the PLO wishes to send representatives to Australia it should now make applications through Australian diplomatic posts? Is that a change in the Cabinet decision previously taken? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise to support the Australian National Railways Bill. I support it for 3 of the 4 reasons given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  when he introduced it. They were the 3 reasons that were relegated to the last of the 4 proposals put. They were to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Australian National Railways Commission, where possible, are consistent with other statutory authorities of a similar nature; to make amendments to the Act which will bring it into line with current commercial practices of statutory authorities; and to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General. I also support the amendment which was proposed by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  which was suggested by State authorities as a suitable amendment to be made to this Bill. I do not support the first reason advanced by the Minister for the introduction of this Bill. It was stated as follows: to create the Australian National Railways Commission, thus providing for the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth Railways including the transfer of State railways; 
This is given as one of the major reasons, if not the major reason, for the introduction of this Bill at this time. Quite obviously it is intended as a prelude to further action to come. 
One did not have to read far to appreciate what the danger might be to our federalist system. This becomes quite apparent in the Minister's speech where he said: 
The amendments will also enable the proposed Commission effectively to perform its role as one of Australia's major rail systems and provide it with the organisational structure and operational powers necessary for it to consolidate into a single system, the State railways, that may be transferred under the Government's rail transfer program. 
This is the major purpose of this Bill. While one cannot disagree with the objectives put before us when it is sought to make the Commission an authority consistent with other statutory authorities of a similar nature or to adopt current commercial practices or to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General, one can object to what the Minister proposes to do after this, as foreshadowed in his second reading speech. I emphasise that point because I am most concerned that in the short time I have been in the Parliament I have made 4 speeches on transport matters related to railways, numbers of speeches related to roads and numbers of speeches related to urban matters. All of those matters concern me very much as an individual. 
But I have not had the opportunity to make speeches on foreign affairs or the economy because those matters are limited and relegated in the importance that the Government attaches to them. The Government is more concerned about gaining the sort of power which is exemplified in what is intended to follow this Bill than it is with the good government of Australia. It ought to be of concern to every thinking Australian that I am able to come into the Parliament and devote so much of my time to matters such as this one, which are important to me- I acknowledge that they are important - 
-Of course. But we have a structure which provides a better method of dealing with these problems. That is the point I want to make, and I shall deal with it in some greater detail as I progress through this speech. It is important that this Parliament devote itself to the matters for which it has prime constitutional responsibility and to responsibilities which no State government or local government authority has. This is a real problem. We have abdicated responsibility for dealing with the matters with which the Constitution charges us to deal. 
Notwithstanding that and my concern about what is happening, I wish to draw the attention of the Minister to the clause in the Bill which I understand was meant to give him the power to enter into these areas. I am somewhat grateful that clause 7 of the Bill provides for the insertion of proposed section 16a. Although, when the Minister discusses clause 7 in his explanatory memorandum he advances the review that it will, in effect, ensure the continuity of property ownership when the Commission commences operations, he goes on to add these words:  . . and provides authority for the State railway systems acquired by the Australian Government to become the property of the Commission. 
I simply ask whether that is so, when proposed section 16a states: 
All the rights, property and assets, including moneys, that, immediately before the commencement of the Australian National Railways Act 1975, were vested in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner are, by force of this section, vested in the Commission. 
I cannot see in that proposed section any authority for vesting further railways in the Commission. But that may be of more concern to the Minister when he seeks to extend the Commission's operations. 
I heard the comments made earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Of course, one assumes that in debates such as this political points will be made, but I cannot let pass the opportunity to remind honourable members of the comments made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide in endeavouring to get a rise out of my Country Party colleagues. He suggested that rail transport was more important because rail costs would not rise to the extent that motor vehicle costs would rise under the alleged policy of the Country Party in relation to petrol prices. He said that without in any way realising that the railways operated on diesel fuel. But perhaps he was advocating a policy that we ought to return to the use of steam power. I would like to hear the comments of other honourable members on these matters. The Minister might comment on whether, when his Government has the power over  these  particular matters, he intends to revert to the use of steam. I realise, of course, that the Minister comes from Newcastle; so perhaps that is what he does intend. 
The other matter about which the honourable member for Port Adelaide argued was unemployment. He suggested that as a result of the policies pursued by State governments, I suppose, some 1 8 000 former railway workers were unemployed. I was somewhat amazed at his suggestion. I suppose he argues in a similar vein to those union officials who want to maintain employment at the cost of efficiency and then wonder why road transport is able to operate more efficiently at a lower cost. He would then say: 'Of course, we will have to deal with that situation by imposing taxes on them so that they cannot so operate'. The real problem in relation to railways has been the lack of co-operation of the second arm of the Labor Party- the trade union movement. It has not permitted State railway operations to work efficiently, to advance new techniques, to take advantage of automation, and so on. Honourable members like the honourable member for Port Adelaide have blinkers over their eyes when it comes to matters of this type. They refuse to look at the way in which State government could make our railway systems work more efficiently, if the second arm of the Labor movement did not prevent them doing so, and achieve the need that we all acknowledge. I acknowledge the comments of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  about achieving efficient railways systems that will move the large numbers of people that we all expect them to move. 
I am concerned about this prospective takeover of State railways because I do not believe that it is going to lead to any greater efficiency nor do I believe that at the moment the 
Commonwealth Government had the expertise that is necessary. Further, I am not convinced that even if the Commonwealth usurps or acquires some of its .own officers it will achieve anything by taking them out of the operations in which they are now working well. This is what is intended. These sorts of organisations will grow and staff will be filched. 
I am very concerned at the proposed operations of the organisation that is to run all the State railways in addition, because when one looks at the way in which the Bureau of Transport Economics operates, the organisation now charged with some degree of responsibility to co-ordinate the activities of the Commonwealth Government, one realises how lacking in expertise an organisation in Canberra is, or perhaps how a government that has oilier priorities can direct even an organisation like the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
I have spoken before in debate about the quadruplication of railway lines. This Government, in other legislation aimed at assuming control of State railway functions, has directed that in Sydney the railway lines between Penrith and Granville be quadruplicated before the quadruplication of the railways lines between Epping and Strathfield. The Bureau of Transport Economics received directions that when it analysed the economies of each of these proposals it was to take into account only the urban transport factors. It was directed not to take into account the important factors relating to freight. What has occurred is that priorities that I believe more suit the needs and aspirations of honourable members on the Government side have been adopted rather than those which meet the needs of the total State of New South Wales. The situation is that the important northern railway line which carries a tremendous amount of freight is not to be quadruplicated in priority over the railway to the west of Sydney. This is notwithstanding the fact that already large sums of money are going to have to be spent replacing the bridge over the Parramatta River at Meadowbank. It is intended to replace this bridge with 2 lines of track founded, I understand, by this Government and at its direction, instead of going ahead with construction of the 4 lines of track that would be necessary to quadruplicate the railway. 
This matter has been explained to me in some detail by officers of the New South Wales Railways and I have discussed it also with representatives of the Bureau of Transport Economics. I was concerned about this changed order of priorities which seemed to me and to the people of that locality to be quite inconsistent with the obvious economies. It became quite apparent after my discussions with the New South Wales railway officials why the order recommended by the Bureau of Transport Economics followed that course. The order of priorities was made because the freight factors that I mentioned were not included in the analysis that had to be undertaken. That is an example, I believe, of the sort of things that can happen when a Federal Government with members who come from all over Australia make decisions in these areas. 
It is quite clear to me that we need to have overall planning to make sure that the same sort of difficulties that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  pointed out in relation to standard gauge railways many years ago do not arise, but once you get over the areas where efficiencies result from proper coordinated railway systems; I believe there is no advantage in having these sorts of authorities and powers vested in a central Government. 
In the short time left to me I want to take honourable members through certain other proposed new sections of the Bill. In particular I wish to draw attention to proposed new section ( 14) in Clause 6 of the Bill which is said in the explanatory memorandum to be the usual provision for statutory authorities regarding commissioners having an interest in a contract to be made by the Commission. I have wanted to make these comments for some time in relation to other Bills that have been before us because of the pressure that is on parliamentarians to adopt disclosure principles. I wonder why a Government that has been so keen to advance the cause that parliamentarians and those who have anything to do with the Parliament ought to have to disclose their pecuniary interests brings forward Bills of this type which only make provision for the commissioners of a statutory authority to disclose interests in contracts to be made by the commission and do not go that step further to require that other pecuniary interests that might relate to the operations of railways ought to be disclosed. Why should not the officers covered in this legislation be required to disclose their pecuniary interests as will be the case with parliamentarians? 
I want to voice my concern at the wording of proposed new sections 31a and 57H. Proposed new section 57h provides that the statutory authority will not be taxed under the taxation laws of Australia or of a State or Territory but that regulations under the Act may provide that particular taxes will be paid. The explanatory notes point out that this is a standard provision for comparable statutory authorities which are not directly competitive with private industry. Yet we had proposed to us a Bill which until this amendment was made by members of the Opposition would have empowered the authority to provide land transport and engineering services provided- these are the words from the explanatory memorandum- that the commission is not limited to purely railway services. It was quite clear that if it were not for the amendment proposed by the States this authority would be directly competitive with other land transport operations and would not be required to meet those tax commitments. 
I want to point that out because I do not believe that these sorts of sections ought to be allowed to go unnoticed as if it is the normal course that statutory authorities should not make a contribution to the tax revenue from their profits. This puts them in a situation where they are not directly competing in an equal sense with private transport organisations. In a case like this, the statutory authority which is possibly in competition with private transport operations would have a tremendous advantage. Fortunately because of the amendment proposed by the Opposition and accepted in this instance, I believe that the prospect of unfair competition will not exist. But I think this need for statutory authorities to make a contribution to tax revenue and to operate on a proper profit making basis and as a business organisation and enterprise would have to operate is imperative. In all other respects I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Where in the estimates of his Department or any other Department are moneys provided for the work or any part of the work associated with the development of an office block in Parramatta for the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What applications have been received for assistance as part of the National Estate for projects within the Electoral Division of Parramatta during (a) 1973-74 and (b) 1974-75 to date. 
I rise to support this very important Bill. I regret that my time, too, will be somewhat diminished in order to meet the program this evening. I know that there are many honourable members like myself who have had the privilege of serving on the parliamentary Select Committee on Road Safety who wish to make comments and who wish to share in some small way the experience that they have had serving on that Committee and to acknowledge the benefit of many of the propositions and proposals that were put to them in carrying out their valuable task. I support this Bill because it will establish a formal relationship between the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the experts that the Commonwealth has managed to obtain and to put that relationship into a statutory framework whereby their experience can be shared with those States that have a responsibility at this time- a prime constitutional responsibility- for administering matters relating to road safety. When one reads the Bill one is gratified to see clauses such as clause 4(3) which states: 
In the performance of its functions, the Authority shall, where it considers it appropriate to do so, consult with the relevant authorities of Australia, the States and Territories, local governing bodies and other interested bodies. 
This will be an important part of the activities of the Road Safety and Standards Authority when it is established. Mention has been made of the role of the expert group, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, which made recommendations in its report of 25 September 1973 and which established essentially the bi-partisan approach that is being taken on this important Bill tonight. The sort of recommendations which came before us were supported by the Road Trauma Committee of the Royal College of Surgeons and essentially, so far as I can see, they have been supported by most of the other authorities and personnel who have had an opportunity to comment on the matter. I will not go into any further detail on those matters which I would have liked to discuss and which I believe are important. 
The objectives of the Bill are set out in clause 4(1). That clause indicates that the Authority is to promote road safety, promote the means for the control and reduction of noise, fumes and other emissions from road vehicles and to protect the interests of persons who buy or otherwise acquire road vehicles in the design, construction, durability, performance, maintenance and repair of those vehicles so far as those matters come within the control of the Commonwealth. The clause sets out those matters in more detail than I recited them. I want to emphasise those functions of the Authority which I consider are the most important. They are set out in clause 4(2) and include: 
investigating and reporting to the Minister on matters relating to road safety and road vehicles; 
undertaking, or arranging for, research in relation to road safety and road vehicles; 
More importantly, the clause goes on to state: 
collecting and disseminating, or arranging for the collection and dissemination of, statistics and other information relating to road safety; 
formulating standards for road vehicles; and 
testing, or arranging for the testing of, road vehicles for compliance with standards and certifying, or arranging for the certification of, compliance of road vehicles with those standards, including certification by means of marks affixed to road vehicles. 
In essence, these were the prime reasons why the Select Committee made these recommendations and the reasons for its proposing that such an organisation ought to be established. The functions of the Authority are clearly to be those which were suggested. In clause 5 the Authority is given certain powers to make inquiries and to engage in making arrangements with other bodies to carry out research or planning, or to supply information and to make submissions to the Authority. In essence, those are the operative provisions of this Bill. They are important because they will enable this Authority to undertake the testing of motor vehicles which at the moment really comes to the responsible authorities in each State on guarantee from the laboratories that are established and registered under the organisation NATA, the National Association of Testing Authorities. These testing authorities or laboratories are within each of the major suppliers. Arrangements are made for manufacturers overseas to have their vehicles tested in laboratories which meet similar sorts of standards. But there are problems in relation to this and information on this was given to the Standing Committee. But we will now have an organisation which will have the opportunity in its own facilities to make these tests. As one of the Committee members who recently had to sit in deliberation and conduct interviews with some of the manufacturers in Australia I am pleased that there will be an independent statutory authority which will have the facilities for and the responsibility of making independent tests. I am not in any way questioning the veracity of those people who have been involved in testing in the various companies which manufacture motor vehicles in Australia or who bring their vehicles to Australia. But I believe that their emphasis, as put in words to the Committee, is in terms of the competition that they have to meet and the demands of the business of making and selling motor vehicles. They are quite proper tasks and ones that nobody would deny to them. But it becomes quite clear, when you ask for certain information and it is withheld because it may benefit competitors, that there is a certain reluctance when competition comes into the matter to consider safety matters if there is any real doubt as to whether the information sought might in some way help the Committee. For this reason I believe it is important that these independent facilities do exist. 
I am abbreviating my remarks somewhat because of the shortage of time. I wish to digress now to refer to some of the reservations that I have about the Bill. I wish to raise a number of minor matters. They are not matters in relation to which one would normally expect amendments but they are matters I would ask the Minister for Transport to consider in relation to this Bill and other Bills. I ask the Minister why in clause 15, which deals with the disclosure of interests by members of the Authority, he has omitted part of a paragraph which is now appearing in other Bills which are coming before the House to establish separate commissions. I will read out the words that I note are included in a Bill presented to the House today which related to a Children's Commission. The words are: and of which he is not a director 
Putting those words in context in clause 1 5 which deals with the disclosure of interests of members, the clause would read: 
A member who is directly or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Authority, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 25 persons - 
This is where the operative words contained in other Bills would come in - and of which he is not a director shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority. 
The point I am making is that other Bills now contain provisions which require people to disclose that they have interests as directors in companies, notwithstanding the number of shareholders. It seems proper to me for that extension to be made. Yet it is not made in this Bill. When we have so much being put to us about the pecuniary interests of parliamentarians, I also ask for the second time in matters relating to the establishment of commissions and authorities such as this Authority why a Bill which establishes such an Authority contains clauses that are so weak and nebulous in relation to the pecuniary interests of members of such authorities. A constitutional provision precludes members of Parliament from any form of contractual arrangements which may in some way affect their veracity as members of Parliament. Yet people who are fulfilling a role on a statutory authority such as the one proposed to be established by this Bill have to disclose very little. In fact, all they have to do is to disclose an interest to the committee or authority and leave the committee or authority so that they play no further part in the deliberations. There is not even a method whereby the Minister could even ask, although I suppose he could, or require the minutes of such an organisation to be made available so that they could be made public or so that anybody could be aware that members of this authority would have any other pecuniary interest. If this Government is sincere about these matters of pecuniary interest I believe it is about time it started to look at ways and means by which those people who are being given great statutory powers in Bills such as this one ought to be required to meet the same sorts of standards that members of Parliament are being required at least to consider at this stage and which they already have imposed on them constitutionally. 
The other matter I wish to raise is in relation to clause 13 (4) and clause 10 of the Bill. Clause 10 deals with remuneration and allowances. It states: 
A member shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
But in relation to the  Chairman,  clause 13 states: 
The Minister may- determine the terms and conditions . . . including remuneration and allowances, of a person appointed to act as  Chairman  or as a mem ber; 
I wonder why the Minister is given that sort of power in that clause and yet the remuneration and allowances of other members of the Authority, excluding the  Chairman  in this instance, it seems to me, are in fact fixed by the Tribunal. It seems to me that if one rule is good enough for members of this House and for members of the Authority the same son of provision ought to operate in relation to the  Chairman.  I raise those matters because I think they are somewhat important. I do not think they require an amendment to the Bill but I ask that the Minister look at them, particularly that matter relating to pecuniary interests. I think in an area of authority like this, dealing with so many manufacturers not only from within Australia but also from overseas, the members ought to be beyond reproach and be seen to be beyond reproach. I certainly do not think these provisions are adequate to give the public that sort of assurance. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What applications were received by his Department from the City of Parramatta, the Shire of Baulkham Hills and the Municipality of Holroyd under the Western Suburbs Area Improvement Program during (a) 1973-74 and (b) 1974-75 to date. 
What is the cost of each of the projects proposed, and will he state briefly the nature of each proposal. 
-As has been indicated by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  the Opposition supports the Trade Practices Bill. The purpose of the Bill, as has been mentioned by a number of honourable members already, is to prohibit the issue of credit cards when they are not solicited by individuals as well as to cure the difficulties that are alleged to have arisen in relation to the issue of bankcards and in relation to the issue of certain cards which were referred to by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in Queensland. It seems to me that the introduction of this legislation is somewhat like bolting the stable door after the horse has gone. Certainly, the only major organisation that would issue cards in this way would be the organisation involving the banks and the cards known as bankcards. It seems to me that the Commonwealth, with the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia as a party to the organisation issuing bankcards was in a position to ensure that in its operations the sorts of problems that were spoken of in the issue of those cards would not have arisen. I wonder why we see the rushing in of an amendment of this type to deal with credit cards when there seem to be other sections of the Act that need to be looked at and reviewed in the light of circumstances that have arisen since the Bill was introduced, passed and more recently promulgated. 
The second major provision in the Bill seeks to overcome a drafting problem. I wish to refer later to a number of drafting problems of which I have become aware. To deal with one in relation to clause 5 1 (4) and not to look at others at this time is a defect in this legislation. This ought to encourage the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to look promptly at the Bill and its more general operation. We also have included in the Bill amendments to sections 62 and 63 of the Act. These sections are to provide for regulations to be made for the purpose of excluding from their operation goods of a kind specified that are intended to be used outside Australia. 
Mention has been made already by the honourable member for Bennelong of the need for that section to be reviewed. There is good reason for the clause to be limited in its operations by referring to goods that are intended to be used outside Australia. It does allow for goods to be made with that intention but in fact for them still to be marketed in an Australian situation. I think that this is clearly a defect, if it is intended to overcome the manufacture of goods in Australia and then to prohibit their use if they are defective in some way. I recall a situation that recently came to the notice of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. The Committee was inquiring into the use of car seat belts. Honourable members will be aware that seat belts have to be included in motor vehicles manufactured and sold in Australia. The Committee ascertained that Australian manufacturers, who agreed that it was desirable for seat belts to be included in their motor vehicles and who agreed that the use of seat belts saved lives, were quite prepared to take those seat belts out of motor vehicles manufactured for the export market. They did that for what they deemed to be commercial reasons without really giving any thought to whether the vehicles they were manufacturing ought to be made safe for the people in the export markets to whom they were selling those vehicles. 
I wonder whether we as an Australian people, if we believe that regulations ought to be drafted that deal with the quality of goods and the safety matters pertaining to goods that are manufactured for Australian markets, ought to allow the export of goods that do not conform with those standards. I hope that in drafting regulations the Attorney-General will take very clear cognisance of the words ' may exclude '. I hope that very clear supervision will operate to ensure that we are not selling on overseas markets goods that we do not believe are suitable for our own markets but which for commercial advantage we are quite prepared to see sold overseas. 
There are several other points that I want to raise in this debate. I was particularly grateful for the speech of the honourable member for Shortland because I think that he highlighted the need for a more widespread review of the Act now that it has been in operation. He highlighted certain problems of which he had become aware. Although I do not agree with his approach to authorisations and particularly his criticisms of interim authorisations I believe that he has validly raised some of the problems which are quite obvious in relation to the Trade Practices Act. I mention specifically sections 49 and 88 of the Act. Already there has been a good deal of comment in articles appearing in the 'Australian Financial Review' relating to each of these sections. I am not privy to the sort of information which the Attorney-General would have in his office or in the office of the Trade Practices Commission about the detailed complaints which I am sure would come to his notice but some practitioners have seen fit to draw to my attention certain defects which have already operated in this area. 
I have also noted some comments on the Trade Practices Act prepared by the Company and Commercial Law Committee of the Law Society. These comments appeared in the Law Society Journal of November 1974 fairly shortly after the Act was promulgated. One of the matters in that journal dealt with the problems the profession was having relating to section 45. I shall mention that section as well. In that article of the Law Society in relation to section 45 it states: 
The effect of Section 45 is that contacts made before the section comes into force will be unenforceable. It will be unlawful to make such contracts after the commencement of the section or to give effect to (defined to include 'enforce') such contracts made before or after such commencement. 
There is provision in section 87 (3) entitling a parry to apply to the Court for a variation of contract made before the commencement of the section or an order 'directing another party to the contract to do any act . . . that the Court considers just and equitable '. 
The question is moot as to whether the common law rules as to severability apply to pre or post-Act contracts enabling enforcement of that part of the contract (if severable) not constituting a restraint. Without canvassing the arguments both ways, some assistance for the view that common-law severability does apply is found in the words 'to the extent that ' in section 45 (2) (b) and in the general words of section 87 (5) as to powers of the Court not being affected by the powers conferred by section 87. However in the absence of amendment or a definitive decision one cannot really place the matter higher than to advise. 
This is speaking of how practitioners might advise clients-  that the matter is doubtful and to come to one's own conclusion as to the preferred view . . . 
Of course, as in most of these things, when one is dealing with them if one has to come to a preferred view somebody can suffer a loss. This can be quite expensive. It can lead to real difficulties. The articles which have been appearing in the 'Australian Financial Review' in relation to section 49 deal with price discrimination. Honourable members will be aware that section 49 of the Act prohibits discrimination as follows:  . . . between purchasers of goods of like grade and quality in relation to- 
the prices charged for the goods; 
b ) any discounts, allowances, rebates or credits given in relation to the supply of the goods; 
the provision of services or facilities in respect of the goods; or 
the making of payments for services or facilities provided in respect of the goods, if the discrimination is of such magnitude Or is of such a recurring or systematic character that it is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition in a market for goods, being a market in which the corporation supplies, or those persons supply, goods. 
The sorts of comments which appeared in relation to this section relate to oil producers and service stations. An article which I read indicated that these sorts of agreements which have led to restrictive trading- that is trading in one brand in country areas- have led to a situation where oil products and so on are sold much more cheaply than they otherwise would be if a number of people were trying to market in a limited area. Some of the commentators have asked whether it is not in the public interest that such specialised economies be made. In fact, a greater service to the public can be effected in rural areas by arrangements which would be quite contrary to this sort of provision. I ask the Attorney-General to look at this provision in the Act to see whether some review can be made which would permit of certain economies, particularly in rural areas. Section 49 raises certain other problems. 
A matter which was referred to my attention related to the Australian Tin Smelters Association. I understand the matter is generally of some public knowledge. In that case agreements which had been operating for some considerable time were terminated. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had a special arrangement or a close relationship with the company in which it had had shares, as I understand it. Other shareholders were allowed a certain discounted price as well as BHP while other purchasers had to pay a slightly higher price. Ultimately because of the operation of this section BHP, as a major user of the tin products, had to pay higher prices. Other shareholders who perhaps had market interests had to pay higher prices. These higher prices would have been passed on to the community and to the users for the goods they were buying, such as tin cans. It is regrettable that when one operates in these sorts of situations and when one abolishes discountsthis has been seen in operation- one generally does not get a lower price at all. This is part of the problem with which the Prices Justification Tribunal has had to try to deal. 
In fact higher prices are charged because these are necessary to maintain a market situation which the producer needs to be able to maintain a viable business. Other situations have emerged as well. It has been ascertained that long standing contracts have provided that goods be sold to a particular person at a reduced price. Of course these are contracts in which parties and suppliers of goods have had vested interests. Such contracts have been avoided by the operation of this section. This has also led to higher prices. I think this is quite contrary to the original intention. We should have seen competition that would have led to lower prices. 
In the few minutes that remain I shall deal with section 88 which relates to authorisations. It was this part to which the honourable member for Shortland referred. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to investigate this section with a view to perhaps amendment if necessary to provide that the Commission be entitled to look at numbers of areas in which contracts are the same. So contracts will not have to be looked at individually in areas in which they are of a rather similar operation such as those oil companies which we have mentioned. Other areas have been revealed in an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 22 January which indicated that business bares its trade secrets. I notice from the article that there were arrangements between the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd and the Newspaper Proprietors Association governing the rules and agreements affecting newsagencies. There are a number of other arrangements involving newsagencies which were mentioned in the article and some involving breweries. There was some suggestion that these agreements be looked at not so much individually- which appears to be the case because of the small number of agreements which have been already processed as described by the honourable member for Shortland- but that they be looked at in a group so that we can see these situations and doubts being resolved quickly. 
I put these proposals to the Minister because I believe that, in these areas and in many other areas about which I understand he has been informed by people who have now had some experience with the operation of this Act, it has become apparent that the Act needs reform in many more areas than those referred to in the Bill that we have before us. I ask the Minister to consider the matters that I have put before him and other matters that I know are coming before him, with a view to a major review of the Act being undertaken to ensure that those sorts of problems which have emerged, particularly those that have led to higher prices for goods, are remedied as quickly as possible so that we may have the benefit of a good trade practices law without the sorts of problems which have become quite apparent in the operation of the current legislation. Notwithstanding my remarks in relation to the need for a general review, the Opposition supports the limited proposals contained in the Bill which is before the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister receive advice from the former Minister for Immigration that it was proposed to establish in the City of Parramatta an office of the Department of Immigration to assist particularly in the fields of local migrant welfare, information, education and the issue of passports. 
If so, has the Minister been advised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that the Department of Labor and Immigration no longer intends to open in Parramatta an office specialising in migrant affairs. 
If so, what proposals does the Department of the Media now have to provide a specialised service for migrants in the Western Suburbs in the special field of information. 
-It is my pleasure to be able to make a small contribution to this important debate. I am pleased also to follow the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who made a most memorable speech. I am sure that we will all remember his contribution when we see the name on the new college building- Cameron College. I dare say that we can all appreciate that honourable members who make contributions similar to that made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide will go a long way. I was particularly interested in the honourable member's suggestion that members of the Government were opposed to interference in trade union affairs. He was speaking in relation to the amendment that has been proposed by the Opposition seeking parliamentary representatives of both the Government and the Opposition on the Australian Council for Union Training. I am somewhat surprised at the honourable member's opposition to that proposed amendment because it it well known that the Australian Labor Party in its history of involvement with the trade union movement has not been reticent to become involved in that area. If it were to become a general principle, I dare say that all honourable members on this side would welcome the withdrawal of the ALP from its position of influence on the trade union movement. 
I would like also to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who indicated that I had made a rather inane comment by way of interjection when I suggested that worker participation was in fact an involvement by the trade union movement with employers. He was not prepared to accept the proposition that the trade union movement could benefit from the employers' contribution, but is quite prepared to accept the contrary proposition. The comment I made was worthwhile, should have been made and I would have liked the honourable member to have answered it. I think that his comment that the gaoling of  Mr O'Shea  was the responsibility of the previous Government needs to be mentioned because all honourable members would know that  Mr O'Shea  was not gaoled by the previous Government but by the courts for contempt and failure to pay fines. For that reason he was gaoled. He was not gaoled by the Government of the day. 
It is important to look at the contributions that have been made to this debate. I have been persuaded that it is very desirable to have a trade union training authority. I have certainly not been persuaded by the sort of threats contained in the speech by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he introduced this Bill. He said: 
The Bill has been carefully drafted so as to be appropriate to the involvement of public funds in the activities that the Bill encompasses. I can say to the House now that there is no absolute need to bring down legislation on this subject. The Bill is therefore an expression of the Government's intention that what it is already doing will be the subject of continuing parliamentary scrutiny. 
I am very regretful that comments of that type were made to indicate that if the Opposition did not give the Government the sort of" Bill that it wants on the terms and conditions that it wants, the Government would go ahead and do what it wanted to do anyway because it has the money- it is sitting on the treasury bench and it does not matter what the Parliament says or thinks. When legislation is justified and we accept that it is justified, I do not believe there is need for threatening comments of that sort. I do not believe such conciliatory comments ought to come from the Government if it wants to get support for important legislation. 
I was particularly impressed by an article I read by D. J. Murphy. I think he put the case very well in 1972 for a trade union college. I shall read certain paragraphs from an article which he wrote for the 'Australian Quarterly'. He said: 
There is dearly a need for something more ambitious in trade union education and that is the establishment of a national trade union college which would be both a teaching and research college offering full-time, in-depth courses to unionists and union officials. It should be financed by the Commonwealth Government as a legitimate pan of Australian tertiary education and should, in time, be extended so that there will be several trade union colleges throughout Australia. 
There are 2 principal grounds why such a college should be founded- 
the present and future needs of the trade union movement and industrial relations in Australia; 
the justice of public money being spent in the interests of labour and the unions as it is presently spent in the interest of capital and management. 
He goes on to say in relation to unions in particularhe speaks of the special needs of the trade unionists which I accept because I think they are very apt comments: 
The present areas of advanced and tertiary education open to future administrators and business executives are, in the main, not open to trade union officials. 
I accept that. He continues: 
In the first place, to become a paid official of a union, a man or woman in effect has to change his occupation. Instead of being a boilermaker, a bank officer, a waterside worker or a shop assistant, he now becomes an administrator, a negotiator, a research officer, an office manager and often a Press officer. These occupations require different skills and therefore different training from that by which he previously earned his living. There is no institution where he can conveniently learn these new skills and continue to acquire new knowledge in his field. 
I think those comments are correct. Certainly I believe that people who undertake new tasks and positions ought to have a means whereby they can be trained to carry out those functions properly. I am not as readily persuaded by the comments of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Minister, in his second reading speech, raised certain matters about which I have doubts. He said: 
It is crucial to better labour relations that those who do business on behalf of organised labour know and are able to articulate the views of those whom they represent. 
I personally doubt whether that is the type of training that we want. I think we want training whereby people are better able to perform the many varied tasks on behalf of those people who elected them to the positions. I do not think we ought to be trying to push people into a situation where they are better able to bulldoze and better able to adopt a stand-off position which we often see. The Minister has suggested that the industrial relations scheme is more complex because of collective bargaining. I think that that envisages a conflict situation. There is a need to teach people more about the responsible way in which they can participate in negotiations through the proper use of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In an article published in the 'Journal of Industrial Relations' we see an indication of the sorts of programs that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, its branches and affiliated unions see as being necessary. The article mentions the following: 
History of the Australian trade union and labour movement, 
Trade union practices, 
Wages and working conditions, 
Industrial legislation in Australia, 
Economics, 
f) Socialisation of industry, 
Industrial unionism, 
History of the International Labour Movement Methods of education. 
So the article goes on. I am somewhat concerned at the very narrow range of topics that are mentioned by that body. For this reason I very much support the amendments proposed by the Opposition which require educational experts to participate in the framing of courses. The definition of 'trade union training' as contained in clause 3 (b) of the definitions section of the Bill defines it to include:  educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council; 
That provision envisages that it is not the State Councils on which there will be representatives of education nominated by the Minister, but in fact the Australian Council, the central Council, which will consider whether trade union training will include educational courses in other fields. I think that is the reason why particularly the clause which constitutes the membership of the Australian Council ought to be widened. That is why the Opposition suggests that on the Australian Council there should be one member of this Parliament appointed by the Prime Minister, one member of this Parliament appointed by the Leader of the Opposition and one member nominated by the Minister for Education. 
Paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and  (0  of clause 14 ( 1 ) provide for the nomination of 1 1 members of the trade union movement to the Australian Council. I think it is important for us to note that this is the Council which will consider the wider educational ramifications. This is the Council that will develop the programs and specify the syllabuses and the curricula which will be studied in the colleges. I think it is important that the Council should have the benefit of wider experience if it is to offer more than has ben indicated in the summary which was developed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and which was recorded in the article in the 'Journal of Industrial Relations' from which I quoted. 
In the short time left to me I wish to raise a number of other matters. Some 41 unionists are eligible to be appointed to positions on the councils that we are creating- the Australian Council and the various State councils. In his remarks the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  mentioned that we did not wish to see this become a jobs for the boys situation. It is clear that we need on those councils people with the widest experience and not necessarily a limited range of people. As some 41 positions are being created, it is difficult to imagine how it will become other than a jobs for the boys situation. 
It is a pity that perhaps more detail is not given in clause 25 of the Bill as to the basis on which the remuneration of members of these councils will be paid. It is noted that the Remuneration Tribunal will set the fees to be paid, but in fact each of these 41 officials will become a paid member of these councils. I wish now to refer to a matter that concerns me greatly, not only just in relation to this Bill. I make this preamble to what I am about to say because the Bill itself deals with trade union training. The comments that I am about to make in relation to clauses 28 and 29 of the Bill are comments that might apply to any authority, council or statutory commission. In fact, recently in this House I made similar comments in relation to the Road Safety and Standards Authority Bill which contained similar clauses. It is no reflection on trade unionists that I am raising this matter now; I make that point very clearly. 
I am concerned, as all other members are concerned, about the matters related to the pecuniary interests of parliamentarians that have been disclosed of late. I am concerned that in relation to statutory authorities similarly proper provisions should apply, thus requiring the highest possible standards to be observed by people appointed to statutory authorities. I note that clause 29, in particular, is different from other clauses contained in Bills that recently have been introduced into the Parliament. In particular, I compare the Bill that we have before us with the Children's Commission Bill which is presently before the Parliament. Clause 15 (3) of that Bill states: 
A member who has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a matter being considered or about to be considered by the Commission . . . shall . . . disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Commission. 
The provision in the Bill that we are discussing is limited because it relates only to those Council members who are interested in contracts made or proposed to be made by the authority. I ask the Minister to consider an amendment in this regard. I also ask him to consider a number of other matters to have general operation, not particularly in relation to this Bm but in relation to statutory authorities covered by other legislation that comes before us in the future. I ask him to consider what penalties will apply if people who have pecuniary interests fail to disclose them to the committee. There is no method in clause 28 by which a person who has failed to make a disclosure to the Authority would forfeit his position or be asked to resign. That is a matter that ought to be considered not only in relation to the Authority but also in relation to wider areas. In relation to a minor breach where a person fails to disclose to the Authority a matter or a contract in which he has a pecuniary interest, there is no method by which he can be subjected to a penalty. I ask that that matter be considered both in relation to this Bill and in relation to statutory authorities in general. I believe that these disclosure provisions, where disclosure is made only to the authority concerned, are inadequate. There ought to be a method by which we as parliamentarians or perhaps some other authority, can be made aware of situations where disclosures like this are made; there ought to be perhaps some authority to which disclosures are in fact made. Here it might be simply recorded in the minutes and not noted for any other purpose. 
I am developing my comments in relation to statutory authorities generally. I have presented them as an initial contribution, but I hope that when further Bills come before the Parliament relating to statutory authorities I can give a more complete exposition of the sorts of reforms that I think ought to be made in this area. I ask the Minister to consider in relation to this Bill the immediate drafting problems that I have mentioned where this Ba conflicts with others and to consider the wider implications of how members of councils, authorities and statutory organisations can be made accountable for their interests, which very often bring them into conflict and influence the decisions that they are making and for which they are in a very minor way responsible through the sort of legislation that is before the Parliament at the moment. 
I welcome the amendments made in response to my suggestion in the debate in this House on the Road Safety and Standards Authority Bill. Honourable members will be aware that in speaking to a number of Bills that have been before the House, and more recently the Bill today concerning the Trade Union Training Authority, I have made similar suggestions. I have asked that in the clauses dealing with the requirement to disclose interests by members of corporations -in this case the Road Safety and Standards Authority and, in the case of the Trade Union Training Authority Bill, the authority that was being established under that Bill- the appropriate persons be required to reveal wider interests than those originally proposed. As the Minister said, that restriction originally did not include companies of which a member of a commission or authority might be a director, but included cases where such a member was a shareholder of a company which had fewer than 25 shareholders. I believe that this provision is desirable because it will make those people who will form the boards or authorities more responsible. I do not think that pecuniary interest clauses yet accommodate all of the propositions that I would like to suggest in the long term in relation to statutory authorities in order to make members of such authorities responsible, but I believe that this uniformity is desirable. For my part, therefore, I welcome the amendments and I know of no objection that the Opposition would have to them. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I rise in the adjournment debate tonight to express my concern at the conflicting roles exercised now by the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby)  in his positions of Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs. The matter is not a new one, in that some of these functions have been exercised by the Attorney-General since this Government came to office in 1972. It is certainly, by the administrative changes that have taken place in relation to the Australian Capital Territory Police, the Northern Territory Police and the Commonwealth Police, a matter of current importance. Honourable members will be aware that the Attorney-General is regarded as the chief law enforcement officer of a State or nation and the legal adviser to the Chief Executive. This is a common function that is exercised by him in almost every legal system where the common law has managed to be implanted. He advises Government departments on matters of law, he fulfils a wide range of duties in relation to the courts and generally he has control of public prosecutions of one form or another. However, he has another function, a special function, in relation to certain offences which can be prosecuted only with his consent. He also has a right, very often exercising his role as AttorneyGeneral, to withdraw proceedings or to withhold prosecutions in certain cases. 
Recently in a judgment in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox made some comments on this matter which I think are pertinent. They were in relation to the challenge to the legal aid system in the Australian Capital Territory, the case of ex parte Hartstein v. Marcus Kessel Bannister in the manner of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 1 970-75.  His  Honour said: 
That notice of motion drew attention to the fact that the Department of which  Mr Bannister  and the other members of the Legal Aid Office are part, namely the AttorneyGeneral's Department, as well as being responsible for criminal prosecutions, is responsible for administering the police force of the Territory, and the Australian police force. 
He went on to say: 
The public defenders and the duty solicitor would naturally spend much or most of their time in representing, or offering assistance to, persons who are being prosecuted by the Attorney-General or by police officers. This situation only exacerbates the position. That the concentration of power involved is constitutionally unsound, and inimical to the proper administration of justice is, I think, beyond question. Certainly it weakens the reliance the Court should be able to place on the independence of persons representative of the diverse interests involved. 
That was a direct indication by  His  Honour that the situation we have now of the AttorneyGeneral exercising police functions under his separate title of Minister for Police and Customs is undesirable. I went to the trouble to look at the situation in each of the States of Australia as revealed by the various Year Books of the States. I note that in South Australia the power over police is exercised by the Chief Secretary; the Attorney-General is a separate Minister. In Western Australia the power over police is exercised by the Minister for Police; the role, of AttorneyGeneral is exercised by the Minister for Justice. In Victoria the person who administers the police is the Chief Secretary; there is a separate Attorney-General. In Tasmania the  Deputy  Premier at the time of publication of the Tasmanian Year Book 1974-1 think he is now the Premier- was also Attorney-General; there is a separate Minister for Tourism, Police and Licensing. In New South Wales the AttorneyGeneral is also the Minister for Justice; there is a separate Minister for Police. In Queensland, that alleged backward place we often hear about from honourable members opposite, the role of Attorney-General and Minister for Justice is one; there is a separate Minister for Police. 
The Carmody report has been tabled and I do not intend to look at the matter with which the report deals in general and which will be covered by legislation. However, the report deals generally though not specifically with this matter. I regret that that gentleman did not make any specific recommendations other than that the role of police ought to be merged with the role of customs and did not offer any view- I do not suppose it would have been proper for him to offer a view- as to whether those roles ought to be exercised concurrently by the Attorney-General. He indicated that in a number of different places with different judicial systems these offices are separate. He referred to Canada. On page 3 of his report he stated: 
Since 1966 the RCMP has come under the control of the Solicitor-General who also controls the prisons and parole systems. It is of interest that Canada has separated the functions of Solicitor-General and Attorney-General- both of whom are Ministers. 
He covered the United Kingdom where the situation is very difficult to pinpoint, but most of the responsibilities for police are exercised by the Home Office which is separate from the Attorney-General. In New Zealand the Commissioner of Police is directly responsible to the Minister for Police, a separate Minister. I think the following words are important. On page 5, in paragraph 4 of his report,  Mr Carmody  said: 
There is a great tendency to amalgamate or at least to coordinate police and Customs activities. In Canada, the RCMP is responsible for investigating important Customs offences. In New Zealand, the 2 Departments have been placed under the one Minister. 
So he goes on. But he does not indicate that these are functions that ought to be exercised by the Attorney-General. I note that there has been comment in the Press on this matter, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory in some editorials that have been written in the 'Canberra Times'. I think there is growing public concern, not because the Minister himself is in any way guilty of impropriety or is lacking in dealing with these matters properly, but that the functions ought to be exercised by separate Ministers. It may well be that the Government has this in mind. But I believe that any steps to separate the function of controlling the police and the functions of the Attorney-General ought to be taken quickly and ought to be dealt with promptly. 
I note that in evidence given before Estimates Committee F  Mr Carmody  indicated that action had been taken recently by the Government. It is this action which perturbs me.  Mr Carmody  said: 
The action taken by the Government in setting up the Department of Police and Customs was an action to amend the Administrative Arrangements Order by which the control of what was the Commonwealth police, the Australian Capital Territory Police and the Northern Territory Police, was transferred to the Minister for Police and Customs, and that is the only action, apart from necessary amendments to regulations and ordinances to complete that decision, taken by the Government. 
I referred back to the legislation that was introduced in 1957 delaing with the establishment of the Commonwealth Police. Honourable members will be aware that prior to that time the police in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory were administered by the Department of the Interior, as it was then. When this Government came to office there was a change which brought into the AttorneyGeneral's area responsibility for the police forces of the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island. I wish to refer to the Commonwealth Police Bill 1957 which was introduced by the then honourable member for Bennelong and Minister for the Army,  Mr Cramer.  Mention was made that the Commonwealth Police were to be responsible to the Attorney-General. I am not in any way excusing my colleagues then because I believe it was undesirable to leave that responsibility in the hands of the Attorney-General. But right through that debate, which can be found in the Hansard for 1957 commencing at page 1574, there is little mention of the fact that the AttorneyGeneral was to exercise these dual responsibilities. The closest comment I could find was some criticism made by  Dr Evatt,  the then Leader of the Opposition, who offered some comment on the fact that the Attorney-General had responsibility for appointing police officers. He was critical of that. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 4- Proceedings of the Loan Council. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 

 Dr J. F. Cairns: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
The Australian Loan Council is constituted under the Financial Agreement and consists of the Prime Minister and Premiers of each State or Ministers nominated to act in their stead. It was decided at an early meeting of the Loan Council that, in view of the sensitive nature of many of the matters considered by the Council (such as proposed changes in interest rates on government securities), proceedings of the Council should be kept confidential to its members. The confidentiality of Loan Council proceedings has been reaffirmed at subsequent meetings. It is for the Loan Council, and not for the Australian Government alone to decide whether any change in its policy in this regard should be made. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, S December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 3- Proceedings of Commonwealth/ State ministers and officials meetings. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
3 ) If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 62- Structure and membership of interdepartmental committees. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 18- Statistics of Public Service applicants rejected on security grounds. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard,5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 61- Membership of Cabinet Committees. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, S December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 82- Victorian 'private costs' study of location decisions. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 83- N.S.W. and Victorian 'public costs' studies, historical and N.S.W. estimates of expanded public services. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
I should like to take this opportunity to speak as I did not have an opportunity to speak during the second reading debate. I appreciate that the requirements of the Government are that we move on fairly quickly with this debate. Regrettably, speaking in committee I cannot take time to commend the interim childrens commission program. In the western suburbs of Sydney there has been a considerable degree of deprivation and the grants made by the Commission have been admirable and are starting to meet some of the needs that I see as being apparent in that district. I particularly want to address myself to clause 3 of the Bill which deals with services for children. It defines them as including: 
the care of pre-school aged children at a time or times of the day when they are not being cared for in their own homes; 
I wanted to raise generally a problem that I discussed shortly with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in relation to the operation of the Child Care Act 1972. It becomes clear from the terms of this Bill and the definition of services for children that in some respects this Bill and the present Child Care Act will operate in much the same area. I am concerned at the more rigid formulas that have been adopted in relation to the Child Care Act which may have led to a situation in which those centres which are being funded under the Child Care Act may not be in a position to receive the same benefits that are now being made available to institutions that will be established and funded by the Children's Commission. I should like to have clarified for the purposes of many organisations funded under the Child Care Act the extent of any deprivation that the existing and funded institutions and facilities may suffer, and whether they can achieve or receive benefits similar to those that will be made available to those newer organisations which will subsequently be funded under the provisions contained in clause 3 subparagraph (a) dealing with services for children. I refer particularly to a submission which I showed to the Minister and which the Minister received, as did other members, from a number of organisations that established child care centres under the Child Care Act 1972. The organisations include the St Paul's Lutheran Child Care Centre, the Ardill Family Centre, the Church of Christ Child Care Centre at Mt Druitt, the Greystanes Child Care Centre and the Telopea Church of Christ Child Care Centre. The last centre I mentioned was one at which I had the privilege of entertaining the Minister, along with others, when he opened it recently. The Minister will be aware that these facilities have been built at considerable expense and, because of the problems that are being faced at the moment with many  formerly  working mothers unable to gain employment, these facilities are largely under-utilised. I shall quote briefly from that part of the submission which deals with some problems that the organisations are having in relation to their fee structure. The submission mentions the salaries subsidy and states that in relation to the experience that these centres have had in the period of operation- a fairly short period of operation, as it is- it is evident that the fees having to be charged by the child care centres are excessive. The submission states: 
Most Centres are charging around $4 per day as a base rate. There is more variation to this as some Centres are applying a means test, which means that some people are paying more than $4 per day and some are paying less. 
Inquiries made by these people have indicated that sessional pre-schools, particularly of the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales, are able to charge $1 a session or $2 per day. The submission states: 
This is because, due to the interim funding plan initiated by the Australian Government through the Youth Ethnic and Community Services Department, the salaries of all staff at sessional pre-school centres are being subsidised by the Australian Government. It seems quite unfair that Child Care Centres which are basically designed and built to meet the needs of people in working class communities should have to charge more than twice the amount being paid by pre-school centres in predominantly middle class areas. This is because the salary subsidies paid to Child Care Centres are most inadequate, for example, at Telopea, out of a staff of seven (2 trained teachers, 1 nurse, 3 assistants, 1 cook) employed at the Centre only one trained teacher and the nurse are being subsidised. This means that an amount of approximately $30,000 has to be met by the Centre through fees to cover salaries. 
The submission proposes that the interim funding program should be broadened now so that the organisations can establish their needs. This seems to me to require some clarification of the way in which those centres under the Child Care Act 1972 are to be dealt with in relation to the more generous funding that seems to have been established by the Interim Commission. The submission went on to deal with the special need subsidy and with some particular cases. I understand that one of the cases cited here in fact dealt with a situation relating to a mother in my own electorate. At the Telopea Child Care Centre it became apparent that certain mother substitute facilities were being provided when there were intellectual and emotional needs of the children when there was a parent in the home. The submission mentions the problem of a number of children in a family in which there is only a mother and no father at home, and deals with the problem that that mother has in paying for child care in this institution out of the pension and other benefits that she receives. It has been found that the mother cannot meet the fees even with the present subsidy. The cost is subsidised to an extent as a special need under the funding that is available now, but out of her pension she cannot actually meet the additional fees that she has to bear under the basis on which these centres are funded. 
Originally these centres were not meant to meet the needs of a person like this, but because of the large number of mothers who were formerly in the work force and who are now unemployed, it has been found that centres which would otherwise have been full, and were planned on the basis that they would be full, have to take in other children to remain economic and viable. The centre in Telopea is concerned to meet the needs of the surrounding community and those for whom there is this special need rather than take in the children of parents who are able to afford to send the children to that centre. The centre believes it would be more desirable if the subsidy element were increased and if there were more discretion to meet those sorts of needs. It is worried that under the old arrangements under the Child Care Act it will be restricted in this. 
I also indicate that there is a need in this same area for family day care. I have drawn to the Minister's attention a request for funds under the family day care scheme by the same people whom he met when he came out to open the Telopea Church of Christ Child Care Centre. 
He certainly did. He was most generous in his praise of the work which was done by the former Government and of the facilities that were funded under the Child Care Act. I was very appreciative of his remarks. That is why I am endeavouring to reciprocate today. It seems to me that this program would be well worthy of the Commission's attention. I believe it would go a long way towards meeting the needs that I see in this community and which I believe ought to be met. 
I want to make one final remark on the general comments that have been made in relation to funding under the definition section of the Bill. The needs of both sides- of the children and of the mother who wants to go out to work- have to be met. I believe that the mother ought to have freedom of choice to be able to stay at home if she wishes and, if she feels that because of her vocation or for her own satisfaction she wants to be involved in the work force in a productive way, her children should be able to be cared for in facilities such as are proposed. The matter has to be looked at in this way. The remarks that have been made in the debate have been most pertinent but the matter must be kept in perspective. Freedom of choice ought to be encouraged so that both situations are accommodated. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to item 17- Commonwealth Police Force statistics on Public Service recommendations. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
I have risen to speak to this clause of the Bill because I gave an indication when I spoke to the motion for the second reading of the Bill that I would move an amendment of my own. I wish to make it clear that in voting on this clause I will be supporting the amendments moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I am concerned about this clause as it reads and as it is intended to operate for a number of reasons. I wish to make those reasons abundantly clear. Firstly, when one looks at this clause one sees that it deems that a marriage shall be dissolved upon one party to it making an application to a court on the basis that the court is satisfied that both parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of the marriage. Coupled with clause 49 (2) it becomes abundantly clear that that can be satisfied notwithstanding the fact that the parties have continued to reside within the same residence or that either party has rendered some household services to the other. I think that the couching of this clause in such wide terms could lead to considerable difficulty being experienced by the court in satisfying itself that the parties have genuinely lived separately and apart, particularly when one looks at the way in which they can live. They can live together continuously in the same residence and can continue to render household services to each other. 
I want to mention to the Committee the reasons why I believe that we ought to allow a period of 12 months separation to operate only on the basis that the parties consent. If there is a 24 months provision I believe that there is a possibility in a unilateral situation of some fraudulent approach being taken by the parties by using clause 49 (2) as they might to deceive the court. I believe that that would be evident if we had a single provision which led to a divorce only after a separation of 24 months. That is the reason why I support the lesser period of 12 months with consent. But I support a greater period than 12 months in a unilateral situation largely for the reasons outlined in a very pertinent letter that I received from a constituent. I do not intend to name the woman concerned because she is personally involved. In the letter she has set out 2 reasons why a period of separation of one year is insufficient. She wrote: 
What if a husband is on the verge of a breakdown through overwork, business stress, etc. and will not get medical help? Without assistance ... all agree it takes longer to recover without help. Certainly longer than the would be statutory one year. The wife is then in a helpless state . . . worrying about his health, finances, their family . . . 
She went on as a second point about the little spoken-of subject of male menopause. She wrote: 
How can a wife prove this? He can go through excessive bouts of gambling, other women, alcoholism, drenching work, stay away for a year and then divorce his wife. Why? She may be waiting . . . and loving and hoping for this stage to pass. Most times he will come out of it but it takes X number of years. Certainly one year, without help, would not be the average. 
She went on to say: 
I implore you to work for more than the 92 amendments already made: Some of the above is happening to me and my family. 
I think it is clear that we cannot see a situation arising in which a period of 12 months separation will not operate in all circumstances satisfactorily in a unilateral case. Similarly we cannot see a situation arising in which a period of 12 months separation will be sufficient. I go back to the comments I made in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill in which I mentioned- there has been mention of this matter in the debate which has taken place today- the situation in which one of the parties to a marriage is homosexual and the marriage has not been consummated. I believe that it would be unconscionable in a situation in which that is discovered for a party to the marriage not to be able to obtain some immediate relief. There is also the situation in which there have been children to the marriage and a party has stayed in the marriage believing, notwithstanding the substantial cruelty that has occurred, that relief may be sought at a time when the children are independent. I believe that there ought to be another course of action in such a situation in which the party has been unable to get that immediate relief because of the children. 
-(9.27)-Like the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  I was spurred to rise in this debate by some of the earlier speeches. I was spurred particularly by the remarks of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  because, like the honourable member for Bennelong, I was concerned about the figures given by the honourable member for Cook relating to the work done by judges of the New South Wales Supreme Court in exercising the court's matrimonial causes jurisdiction. I was concerned at the comment that the average amount of time spent by judges in dealing with cases is in fact of a very limited nature. Although the Committee has not seen any regulations giving effect to the provisions of this Bill, it is my understanding that we might very well see a situation in which parties will not be required to go before the courts at all and that many of the matters that previously were required to be established by evidence will be put in the form of affidavits. If that were so, I imagine that the time required by courts to deal with the matters would be very limited indeed. Certainly when one looks at the matters in clause 48 that have to be proved to the court, they are of a very much more limited nature than the matters that formerly had to be evidenced to the court to enable it to grant a decree. One would expect, therefore, very much less time to be spent in dealing with matters that have to be established under this Bill. Consequently, I fail to see the relevance of the arguments advanced on this question by the honourable member for Cook. 
I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to clarify to me the way in which he envisages the 
Family Court of Australia, and those family courts that are to be established pursuant to clause 41, will operate. It is my view that one would not be able to pick and choose the judge before whom one wanted one's case to be brought. The explanatory memorandum states that the Family Court of Australia has jurisdiction in any matrimonial cause instituted or continued under the Bill, any proceedings instituted or continued under the Marriage Act and so on, and other matters are mentioned. It seems to me that the clauses do give to the Family Court of Australia the possibility that it will be hearing not just matters on appeal but matters of first instance. If this means that where courts are established pursuant to clause 41 a party could choose the court before which he wants to initiate his proceedings with a view to coming before certain judges and not other judges, it would concern me. 
I should like the Attorney-General to indicate how he envisages these clauses would operate before I would vote in favour of the establishment of a Family Court of Australia. I make that point. Generally speaking, I was in favour of a family court that would exercise an appellate jurisdiction and that would enable the various courts to be established under clause 41 to exercise jurisdiction in a similar way. I would not like to see courts going off on their own tangents which could not be brought together by the appropriate use of the appellate jurisdiction. This was the view that I had when I saw the proposal for a family court. I thought that the structure of it was such that it would give rise to this form of appeal and this situation where the judges would essentially be implementing the law in the same way. 
I was very surprised at the comments of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It was my view that the Commonwealth, when it seeks under clause 41 of the Bill to institute agreements with the States, would be able to establish courts that would exercise jurisdiction in the same way in which he envisaged the Family Court of Australia would exercise jurisdictionin other words, that the judges would exercise their jurisdiction in the same humane way, taking cognisance of the same human factors, and that there would be appointed judges having the same variety of experience that he saw in judges appointed under the parts of this Bill dealing with the Family Court of Australia. I should like the Attorney-General to clarify very clearly to the Committee how he envisages that these clauses will work together. 
asked the Minister for Minerals  and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 5- Department of National Development blueprint for natural resources. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Special Minister of 
State, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 77- Income statistics from population survey. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Exampless of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed Item 10- Research on commodity yields, farm costs and returns. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
-Can the Prime Minister tell me how many people are estimated to be eligible for admission to Australia as refugees under the guidelines published in relation to persons who are in a position to move if they wish to do so? How many people are estimated to be eligible if the guidelines are extended to include families of Australian Vietnamese nationals or residents such as brothers, sisters and their families, including perhaps spouses and children? Can the Prime Minister indicate whether his Government is now in a position to review its earlier guidelines to enable the reconciliation of families? 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), in the definition of'place', omit paragraphs (b) and (c), substitute the following paragraphs: 
a building or other structure (including equipment, furniture, fittings and articles associated with or connected with); and 
a group of buildings or other structures (including equipment, furniture, fittings and articles associated with or connected with); '. 
I move that amendment because clause 4 begins: 
For the purposes of this Act, the National estate consists of those places - and then goes on further to define 'places'. One sees that in clause 3 'place' is defined as including: 
a site, area or region; 
b) a building or other structure; and 
a group of buildings or other structures. 
What the Opposition seeks to achieve by this amendment is that a building or other structure will include equipment, furniture, fittings and articles associated with or connected with such buildings or other structures. 
One finds justification for this amendment on a careful reading of the report on the National Estate. At page 197 of the report reference is made to furniture, fittings, household ornaments and equipment. I think it is worthy of note that paragraph 6.24 says: 
These objects together make up the furnishings of buildings and especially the homes of the past. As interest in restoring and preserving our old buildings grows so also does interest in preserving these items of furniture. It is a matter of common knowledge that Australian antiques are enjoying a rising market. 
Paragraph 6.27 mentions a matter of particular interest to me. It says: 
Many valuable items of this kind of cultural property are to be found throughout Australia in buildings other than those specifically designed to accommodate them. The National Trusts' properties are in many instances also repositories for items of the nation's cultural property. The N.S.W. Trust's property 'Old Government House' at Parramatta and the Tasmanian Trust's property at Runnymede at New Town are good examples. The homes of Australian families also contain many items of importance in our cultural heritage. 
I think it is clear that to leave out of this important definition of 'place' reference to furniture, fittings, equipment and other articles associated with or connected with such buildings or structures is a clear omission. Any commission that is to have authority to deal with the National Estate cannot overlook the necessity to maintain important parts of our national heritage intact. 
There would be nothing worse than to see a grant being made for the acquisition of a building and valuable antiques that were part of that property being sold off because the Government's commission could not also advance money for the purchase of those as well. This would be a clear possibility. If these important items forming part of the property at the present time were sold off it would be almost impossible afterwards to try to remedy such a loss to our heritage. I submit that this amendment ought to be accepted because the Bill contains a blatant and obvious omission, probably only indicative of hurried draftsmanship and not really a deliberate omission on the part of the Government. 
I am prepared to accept the Government's amendment. I note that it gives the Government the option to elect not to purchase items which may be of no significance but which have been included accidentally. It certainly was not my intention that the Commission should not be able to exercise its judgment in these matters. It is imperative that those people who are best able to judge these matters be able to exercise that judgment. The inclusion of the word 'may' in the drafting seems to give that effect. I am quite happy to accept it. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Question (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my Question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy-Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester 's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy 'on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 68- Strategic list on trade with China. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr. J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 78- Report on Law Council recommendation on Territories Criminal Code. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
-My remarks will be brief,  Mr Chairman.  I am concerned about a matter which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  considers to be important and which is contained in sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 9. The Minister said in his second reading speech in respect of this particular clause: 
I draw particular attention to the authority proposed for the Commission to accept gifts or bequests. Private individuals and organisations may wish to give property or other items of National Estate quality to the Commission, and the Bill provides for this. 
This is provided in sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 9, which states, in part: 
. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Commission may accept gifts, devises and bequests made to it, whether on trust or otherwise, and act as trustee of moneys or other properties vested in it on trust. 
Additionally, in clause 7 (f), reference is made to: 
. arrangements for the administration and control of places included in the National Estate that are given or bequeathed to the Commission; 
I should like to speak about this in relation to clause 18, which deals with the disclosure of pecuniary interests, because a standard clause is contained in sub-clause (1) of clause 18 which relates to company interests, but a new clause is contained in sub-clause (2), which I commend. Sub-clause (2) states that a Commissioner who is a member of an organisation that has a direct or indirect pecuniary or other special interest in a matter being considered has to disqualify himself. It is quite clear that those Commissioners who have interests in other matters- that is, matters that other organisations are concerned about, such as those Commissioners who might represent the National Trust or otherwise- are not permitted to vote. That sub-clause recognises that that quality of being able to have a special interest in a matter, or a building or a site, can in fact disqualify a person because it causes him to lack the objectivity that is required when making important decisions like this, as to where needs are to be met. 
In Parramatta, for instance, 164 properties are considered to be of sufficient importance to warrant inclusion as part of the National Estate: In one community there is that large number of properties for which priorities have to be decided. We have here a situation in which the organisation that is to recommend how moneys are to be disbursed- how grants are to be madecan have bequeathed to it properties which are to become its own pecuniary interest to which it may, as a result of the obligation that it assumes, give greater priority in terms of grants. However, these grants may not, in fact, accord with the real priorities which, if the commission was objective, it would otherwise give in terms of grants. We recognise in the Bill that objectivity is important. In clause 18 it is specifically stated that if members are associated with organisations like the 
National Trust they have to disqualify themselves. But when the Australian Heritage Commission is given properties which become its own pecuniary interest, it it not disqualified. It is the organisation that is still going to have to recommend whether money is to be spent there or on some other private property. 
The other matter that concerns me and which relates to this matter is the limited extent - 
-I am sorry. But if I could just raise this one point I will make it very short. On page 10 of the Interim Report of the Committee, is mentioned the difficulty that private individuals have in receiving grants. That concerns me a great deal because I think private properties ought to have grants made in respect of them. The argument that is put in the report provides one way in which it might be able to be said by the Commission that if this distortion is apparent, it was not really able to give money in this direction. That does trouble me and I think special efforts ought to be made to give to the Australian Heritage Commission, when it is established, wider powers to get covenants that will protect its interests so it can make grants to properties that are still in the hands of private individuals or the National Trusts. 
I hope the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  will look very closely at these matters because I think that this commission ought to make recommendations and that there ought to be a separate organisation to accept bequests. My personal view is that that right ought to be in the hands of the National Trust. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr. J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester 's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ', on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 2- Interdepartmental committee report on the state of the economy. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 1  -  ' D ' Notice system: existence, number and subject matter. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 27- Defence Standards Laboratories consumer products tests. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1799 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 56- Advice and analysis on reintroduction of conscription. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index, of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 57- Review of civilian substitution in armed services. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 58- Independent consultants ' report on community attitudes to service careers. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention been drawn to indexed item 59- Detail of medical tests applied to army recruits. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples ofSecrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 88- Report on integration of armed forces medical services. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples ofSecrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 89- Report on defence legal services. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 90- Report on the defence services flying training program. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 9 1 - Hassett Committee report on army reorganisation. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made, 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974 page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of Mi J. J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy-Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 92- Moreshead Committee report on army structure. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia, and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 93- Interdepartmental study of housing problems of services. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to index item 94- Reports on the proposed Tri-Service Academy. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 95- Submissions on proposed Army base in Western Australia. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J.  Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 96- Administrative directive on the responsibilities of the Department of Defence. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 97- Report of Judge Rapke 's inquiry on HMAS Leeuwin. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 98- Report of Court of Inquiry on RAAF Laverton. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 30- Commonwealth Paint Committee's tests of household paints. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 3 1 - Central Testing and Research Laboratories tests of anticorrosive coatings. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
I address myself to clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill. My comments will be rather brief. I take this opportunity to deal with certain aspects arising out of the substantial cost of funding our universities' programs. It is quite apparent from clause 3 of the Bill that substantial costs have been incurred in numbers of areas relating to the maintenance of universities. Clause 3 proposes to increase substantially the remuneration of university professors, lecturers, tutors and others. Clause 4 seeks to increase expenditure grants on university building projects. Members of Parliament no doubt recently have been approached, as have I, by representatives of the Australian Union of Students who are seeking substantial increases in other areas of university expenditure, particularly in the payment of tertiary allowances. Paragraph 1 of the letter that I received from the Australian Union of Students - 
-My proposal was to deal with what I see as increasing expenditure in the total area. What I want to put to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in regard to the clauses is that we ought to examine the competing priorities. I put these comments in the light of competing priorities for the sort of expenditures that we have in the Bill. The proposal that I put is that the students who wish to increase substantially the costs of running universities ought to be required to make a choice as to whether they want to see expanded building programs of the nature that we have before us or alternatively whether they want to accept some respite for the moment in advancing of separate expenditure programs in terms of increased allowances which I consider to be of an exceptionally high character. I trust that that short statement of the direction in which I am heading will perhaps indicate that I am not out or order. But assuming that I have been - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  If the honourable member pursues that specific line I will have to uphold the point of order. The purpose of the Bill before us is clear. It refers to the Australian Government's funding of universities and the abolition of tuition fees. 
I am particularly concerned to the substantial costs which are noted in clauses 3 and 4 in specific areas- the building program and the remuneration of staff. I have indicated generally that there are other competing priorities. My specific concern in relation to clauses 3 and 4 is that, if we wish to maintain expenditure at the rate that we have here on these projects, we cannot afford as a nation to be considering other alternative avenues of expenditure. I invite all those who are involved in the funding of universities and in considering the priorities that we have before us to note carefully the large increase in Government expenditure in these particular areas. I am not in any way critical of the Government. I accept that the Government has decided that these are the orders of priorities that it wants. Having regard to that, I would hope that the Government does not widen these areas without giving the people involved an opportunity to consider those matters. 
In relation to clause 4, 1 wanted also to highlight the need for the establishment of a university in the Parramatta area. Reference is made in this clause to the planning of new universities. Particular reference is made to the Deakin University. I wish to compliment the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  on his suggestionwhich in fact is following up suggestions that my own father has made in other places from time to time- on the need to plan now for a new university to serve the Parramatta area and the hills area of Sydney- in the areas which we jointly serve. These are fast growing areas - 
-No, 1 am talking about planning. I believe planning is important now if we are to achieve the objective of establishing universities of this type at a reasonable cost in the future. The areas of which I am speaking are expanding. Until recently we have seen rapid escalation in the cost of land in those communities. I believe that unless some steps are taken now to plan for a further university in the Sydney area- in addition to the Campbelltown proposals which have been made- the opportunity to meet such a need will be lost. I believe this is the ideal time to look at these proposals. 
I should like to raise a final matter in relation to costs. 1 am concerned about rising costs, as I mentioned. One of the matters in relation to building costs, which has come to my attention indirectly and which I believe is receiving the sympathetic consideration of the Government, is the problem experienced by university colleges and perticularly by those that have been recently established. The Macquarie University comes within the boundaries of my electorate of Parramatta. Recently completed colleges are experiencing considerable difficulties as a result of escalating building costs. The university itself is being compensated for the increased costs under clause 4 of this Bill. The colleges to which I am referring are run by churches. They are experiencing considerable difficulty in meeting the increased interest repayments on loans that they necessarily had to negotiate in order to complete the colleges. 
Unfortunately, no government has indicated at the moment that it is prepared to meet the additional building costs that the colleges have suffered as a result of inflation. In clause 4 of this Bill the Government has accepted such responsibility in relation to universities generally. I believe that colleges of this type, which most other universities have established and which proceed in these difficult times on a reasonable basis without substantial costs to the organisations that have sponsored them, are essential at the new universities. The Macquarie University has been developed in recent years, no doubt at considerable public cost. The University has a considerable number of students coming from all areas of Sydney. They want to live near the University but there are not the older homes available for rent that exist in areas such as Glebe, which is near the Sydney University. Newer homes, built largely for young married couples and so on, surround Macquarie University. It is difficult in such circumstances to find the sort of accommodation that colleges themselves offer, and it is difficult for them to find the sort of accommodation that students are able to find in the older and more established areas in which these is provision for flats, sub-letting and so on. Accommodation of this kind does not exist in the newer areas which are being developed. 
I wish particularly to ask the Minister when considering these proposals to assist the colleges at Macquarie University that the colleges be given assistance to maintain their existence on the university campus. I understand that in other areas of Australia where new universities have been developed there has been a request that colleges be developed within the universities to assist students to create that special environment in which they will be able to pursue their studies to advantage. I would not like to see a situation arise in which, because of the very costs that the Government is accepting under this legislation in relation to the universities themselves, university colleges are in fact driven into bankruptcy or will have to close because of the inability of the organisation which originally sponsored them to carry the substantial costs which have arisen through the increased building costs of which we are all aware. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 63- Department of National Development report on Beef Road Development in Northern Australia. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester 's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item S3- Financial accounts of the Wheat Board. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and in particular, An Inside Dopester 's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 54- Price of wheat sold to China. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
-In the few moments left to me I wish to raise a matter of considerable concern to me, namely, the comments of  Mr R.  R. Carey Evans in his annual report to the Australian Finance Conference. He made certain comments on interest rates in the report which I consider are of the utmost importance. He wrote: 
Of prime concern to this industry, to other leading finance sources and to their customers is the current and future level of borrowing rates. 
Until there is a serious attempt to tackle the problem of inflation, there is no hope of any real easing of interest rates and the many problems that they are causing. 
He is quoted - 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
With reference to page 37 of his Department's report for 1973-74, what activities involving the Parramatta River are examples of innovative use of a resource which reflect planning of the Department. 
What funds have been allocated for these activities. 
What organisations have been involved in these activities. 
How many people, outside of government, have participated in these activities. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1.974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
2 ) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 1 6- Department of Social Services internal manual '. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 32- General surveys of pensioners by Department of Social Services'. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing service. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy-Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples ofSecrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 33- Department of Social Services Survey of Accommodation of Aged Pensioners'. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item34'Departmental Studies of Economic Benefits of Rehabilitation Programs'. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, S December 1974, page 4763 ), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy',on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 36- 'Independent consultants' report on mentally and physically handicapped '. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy',on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 37- Financial Details of Medical and Hospital Funds. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763) has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ', on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 38- The register of health funds. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 99- Statistics on security mail interception. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 100- Protective Security Handbook. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ', on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 73- Commonwealth Council for National Fitness Survey. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ', on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 35- 'Interdepartmental Committee Survey of Facilities for Handicapped Children'. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my qeustion No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book by  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Exampless of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 66- Department of Civil Aviation study on noise level of Electra aircraft. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice:  (.1) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1 974, page 4763 ), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'SecrecyPolitical Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Exampless of Secrecy' on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention been drawn to indexed item 67- Report on Sydney's second airport. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he had discussions with the Minister for Health or his officers on proposals for the accreditation for pathology laboratories in Australia. 
Will he make representations to the Minister for Health on behalf of the National Association of Testing Authorities so that this body might be responsible for accreditation of pathology services. 
Will he outline the role NATA will play in ensuring quality control for consumer services and goods within Australia. 
-I second the motion that the Standing Orders of the House be suspended to enable us to consider the motion on notice in the name of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Mention was made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  by way of a point of order that the honourable member for Mackellar was not here to move this important motion. That is so. But I do not think that discounts the reasons why we ought to discuss this important matter. I for one was of the view that this matter would be discussed today. I might have taken another course of action available to me if I had known that this motion would not be discussed. The motion reads: 
That the following matter be referred to the Public Accounts Committee under the provisions of paragraph 8 (d) of the Public Accounts Committee Act 1 95 1 - 1 966- 
1 ) Whether, and if so to what extent, payments of unemployment benefits have been made during this financial year to persons not entitled under the law to receive them; and 
Any matters connected with the foregoing which, in the opinion of the Committee, should be reported to this House. 
It is clear from the notice paper as I read it today that this will be the last day upon which this Parliament will have an opportunity to consider this most important matter. There will not be another opportunity for some three or so months, if the motion that is to be moved later this day by the Leader of the House is carried. For this reason, I believe that while we are discussing matters of General Business this important motion ought to be dealt with and that the Standing Orders ought to be suspended to enable it to be considered. 
Why is this motion so important? It is clear from the Grievance Day debate that took place only one week ago that important matters have been disclosed on which the Government has not yet acted to deal with in a positive way. I believe that this is the most urgent reason why this House ought to take its own action by suspending the Standing Orders to consider the motion. Honourable members will recall that in that debate the honourable member who has been suspended and who intended to move this important motion disclosed certain circumstances to the Parliament. He cited the case of a  Mr Alan  Dudley, who lives at 162 Penshurst Street, Penshurst. He indicated - 

 -Certainly, Mr Speaker, I do not require any latitude and I would hope that you would deal quite properly with me if I infringed your rulings on this matter. I am endeavouring to indicate to the House that there is considerable urgency associated with this matter. The abnormal circumstances that took place today have denied the honourable member who proposed to move the motion an opportunity to move the motion and to debate it. In normal circumstances he would have moved the motion. The circumstances demand that Standing Orders be suspended so that the important matters that he would have been able to raise may be raised in debate. I have dealt, I believe, with the urgent need for these matters to be debated. The matters involve not only the ones which were raised by the honourable member in the Grievance Day debate and which I will not canvass any further but also the reply of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who indicated that the facts that the honourable member for Mackellar intended to raise were correct. In the debate on the honourable member's motion I wanted to raise circumstances concerning constituents of mine. I believe that the matter ought to be investigated by a competent committee. It ought to be done urgently- not neglected or left for some 3 months until the matter hopefully might be forgotten. Because of the dramatic rise in the number of people who are unemployed, the number of possible 'dole cheats'- that is the term which has been used- also could be rising. It becomes increasingly apparent, with the rising unemployment on a seasonal basis which we have seen again today in statistics that are to be released - 
-I certainly hope not,  Mr Speaker.  I should like to emphasise the urgency of the matter. I believe that that is the reason for the suspension of Standing Orders. Nobody is more concerned than I am that we should not rap over the knuckles the public servants who are doing their best - 
-Clause 62 is what is commonly known as an averment clause. Honourable members will know that my Party, when in government, was not without guilt in insisting from time to time that averment clauses be contained in legislation. The reason for that view when my Party was in office, and no doubt the reason that would be advanced for the inclusion of a clause as wide as clause 62 in this Bill if the matter were pursued, is that it facilitates the prosecution in certain circumstances, particularly where technical matters have to be dealt with. Honourable members might be aware that there are clauses of this nature in such Acts as the Dairy Research Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Repatriation Act, the Dairy Research Levy Act, the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Act and the Public Order (Prosecution of Persons and Property) Act. There is any number of them. If one went through the debates on those Bills one would find that numerous speeches were made, perhaps even by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  in which the use of clauses of this nature were criticised. 
When we were discussing at an earlier time the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill, I drew attention to clause 65 of that Bill which was in similar terms to clause 62 of the Bill now under consideration. On that occasion I indicated that the clause was wider than even the clause contained in the National Parks and Wildlife Act of New South Wales. That put a start up me because I would have thought that, if anything, New South Wales would have been well in front of this Government, not behind it, in terms of averment clauses. Therefore, I did a little research and spoke to the officers concerned. I found that this clause was intended to facilitate proving that the place where an offence occurred was within the boundaries of a national park or, in this case, within the boundaries of the Marine Park. The reason for the averment clause was to avoid the necessity of having to bring a surveyor into court to prove that the place was within the boundaries of the park. The clause as drafted however is of wider operation. 
Upon averment of this fact if the defendant wanted to dispute whether or not he was within the boundaries of a park, he would have to place the matter in issue. This would make it easier to facilitate the prosecution. I accept that this may be a reasonable basis, although I have a personal aversion to averment clauses in general. I therefore thought that it may well be desirable that on this occasion I put an amendment to the Parliament to avoid the possible difficulty of having to bring into court a surveyor to prove matters and having necessarily to put the matter in issue in the first place. I understand that the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  may consent to the amendment. I move: 
Omit all the words from and including the words 'that, at a specified time ' to the end of paragraph (b ) and substitute the following words: 'that- 
the place where the defendant is alleged to have been at the time of the alleged offence was in the Marine Park or in a specified zone; or 
the place where an animal, plant, aircraft, vessel or article referred to in the information or complaint is alleged to have been at the time of the alleged offence was m the Marine Park or in a specified zone, '. 
I should like to thank the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  for his remarks and to welcome this important proposal. I want also to thank the Public Works Committee for the most thoughtful and courteous hearings it conducted in Parramatta in relation to this most important public work. This work is going to involve a great deal of Commonwealth Government, expenditure. I think this report indicates the need for such works to be carefully scrutinised and for particular matters to be considered in detail. I should like to thank the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for the way in which he courteously dealt with the Mayor of the City of Parramatta, with other distinguished personages of the city and, in particular, with  Mr Murray  of Murray Brothers, who is here today to listen to this short debate. 
A number of matters dealt with in the report concern me a great deal. On page 14 reference was made to local government rates. I think the matter of parking ought to be considered in association with this matter. The Committee said in its observations that, in accordance with accepted Australian Government practice, limited ex gratia payments will be made to the Parramatta City Council. Undoubtedly that has been the practice. The report goes on to indicate that those payments would be made in relation to those parts of the centre that generate income for the Commonwealth. In other words, the small part of the centre that has retail aspects associated with it would pay rates but the rest of the centre would not. I believe that the development as proposed- and as the report has recommendedwill mean in fact the death knell of Parramatta as a major commercial centre, a commercial centre that will have retail facilities and a centre that will have in it the sort of activities that are important to a major city. I believe that the development will mean the death of the city of Parramatta and it will become a city very similar to the city of Sydney- tall office blocks, canyons, and very little in the way of commercial activity. 
-I believe it is shameful. I am not blaming the Committee. I believe the Committee had before it a great deal of information, but it was placed in a difficult position. It had to look at the question of car parking which was canvassed by the representatives of the Parramatta City Council and by the representatives of the Planning and Environment Commission, and it had to look at past policies. I do not exempt previous Liberal Governments from the comments I am about to make because I believe it is time for a fundamental change in the way in which governments approach the question of parking in important developments like this. 
In this report we see a situation where 600 cars at the moment can be parked on the Meggitt site in Parramatta as arranged with the permission of the Minister. After the development takes place, 345 cars will be able to be parked on that site: 305 official cars and 40 temporary visitor cars. That is the provision that is being made in this development. In addition we will probably see, with the provision of access to the site, the diminution of a further 50 car parking spaces that are presently made available by Murray Brothers in that area of the site that is to be acquired. So, with the development of a site that will accommodate 5000 public servants, we will see a net loss in terms of parking provision in the City of Parramatta of some 305 spaces. 
In the report and in evidence given by  Mr Clark  on behalf of the Department of Services and Property, we saw a rather naive statement that indicated that it was  Mr Clark's  expectation that public servants would use public transport to get to and from the centre when it is completed. If some positive direction could be issued to the public servants I probably would not be complaining. But nobody is going to suggest to me that some positive direction is going to be given to the people working in this centre that they should not travel to and from the centre by their own vehicles, that they should not take advantage of the limited number of parking spaces available for commercial purposes provided at the expense of the ratepayers at Parramatta and choke up those parking spaces for the day if they want to. No suggestion has been made that the Government will organise the erection of barriers to ensure that public servants do not bring their vehicles into the city. Yet I submit that this is the sort of thing that would have to be done if we were to take this suggestion seriously. 
At the moment there are very limited transport faculties to and from the city of Parramatta. I know that it was acknowledged by the Committee. It was acknowledged by the New South Wales Government, which over many years has had difficulty in getting the funds necesary to solve these important problems. The city of Parramatta is served by one railway line that comes from the east and another that comes from the west. Development is thick to the north and the south of the city. Yet neither of those communities is connected directly by rail with the city itself. The reason why I make and emphasise this point is that it becomes clear that we cannot expect the railways to bring the vast majority of public servants into the city of Parramatta. Most of them will still have to use private transport, whether it is our wish to bring them by public transport or otherwise. It was clear in the submissions that were put before the Committee that this was the case. 
I want to make these important points: We see a lot being done for local government by this Government. The Government has established such things as the area improvement plan, the 
Grants Commission and so on. It has set up expensive administrative procedures which involve a large number of public servants in their administration; yet it refuses to pay rates on the properties which it owns. If the Government was prepared to pay rates on properties such as the one in Paramatta that we are now consideringthis applies to the New South Wales State Government as well- I submit that there would be no need for the vast and expensive programs that we have seen developed. It would be much easier to provide the facilities that are needed. In fact  Senator Poyser,  one of the members of the Committee, suggested that in order to solve the problems that Parramatta has in relation to parking the city ought to go before the Grants Commission. He said: 'Do not look at us; do not expect the Public Works Committee to deal with it. Go before the Grants Commission or some other authority which will be able to come up with a solution to the problem '. 
The city of Parramatta is not able to collect rates from the Government to enable it to try to solve the problem of parking itself. The following comment is made on page 4 of the report of the Public Works Committee, under the heading 'Economics of Australian Government Office Construction': 
Apart from the physical advantages to the Government in owning its office accommodation, recent studies have demonstrated that it is generally more economical to own office accommodation than to lease equivalent privately owned space. 
I'll say it is! There are considerable savings to be made, and the reason why those savings are to be made is that the people of Parramatta will have to provide, out of rate revenue or other income that might be available to them by way of loans and so on, the other facilities that the Government will not provide. In other words, the city will have to try to solve its parking problems itself. The report goes on to state: 
The costs of building and operating the proposed office complex compare favourably with the cost of leasing equivalent accommodation constructed under similar economic conditions. 
They are a darned sight better because the Government does not have to provide for parking at all. 
I put this to the Committee when I appeared before it: If the Government was renting office accommodation from a private developer, such as accommodation in IAC House or Macarthur House in the city of Parramatta, it would pay a commercial rent and in that commercial rent would be an amortised cost for providing parking for that development and an amortised cost for rates that the developer had to pay. There is the saving that we as a Commonwealth Government are able to make. We make it by a rip-off from local government, a rip-off from the city of Parramatta and a rip-off, I would submit, from every other municipal authority that will have in its area a development such as those foreshadowed for Albury-Wodonga, BathurstOrange and Geelong. Some members of this House might wonder when they get these developments in their electorates what sort of approach will be taken. I can assure them that it will not be the sort of approach that is taken here in the national capital, where an abundance of parking is readily provided and associated with every development. It will be the approach that we have in the city of Parramatta, where we are told: 'You will get only a minus figure- minus 305 car parking spaces in the city'. 
It appears to me that the Government has had second thoughts on this question. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  on 4 December, said: 
We will be able to make available an area for car parking of from 500 to 1000 cars. 

 Mr Clark of the Department of Services and Property said: 
During talks a few months ago with the State Planning and Environment Commission they indicated that in the light of further studies they would prefer a maximum of 1000 cars. We made recommendations along these lines. 
Then he said: 
We were not happy about 1000, we thought it was too much for the site but we said preferably 500 cars would be suitable. 
Apparently the Government had second thoughts again. Perhaps it would be a little naive to suggest that this may be related to the attitudes of one Minister who, I know, believes that there should be no provision for cars to be brought into any city and that we ought to deal only with public transport in terms of funding. But Little does he realise the effect, the devastating effect, that this development will have on the city of Parramatta and its commercial development. 
The Committee had before it clear evidence from the Parramatta City Council that in accordance with all its codes 2400 car parking spaces ought to be provided. The Parramatta City Council agreed that it ought to compromise, as it did on other matters when it agreed to give up the site for its baby health centre in a swap for road widening work that was being undertaken. That was a swap that would not be made with any other developer where the Council has provisions to require money to be - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I remind the honourable member that that is not the matter before the House. The matter before the House is clearly set out. We are considering whether approval for this work should be given, and any diversion from that project I shall rule out of order. 

With respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the matters to which I am referring are associated with the project before the Chair. I am referring to the O'Connell Street frontage. It was necessary for the baby health centre site to be acquired for this project. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my question No. 1301 placed on the Notice Paper on 15 October 1974. 

 Mr STEWART-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1301 appeared in Hansard, page 3276, on 3 June 1975. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 25-Report of the 1969 Workshop on Health and Nutrition of Aborigines. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made pubicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763) has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr. J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 39- Department of Health surveys of medical fees. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1 974, page 4763 ), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 

 Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 40- Departmental calculations of an index of health costs. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 42- Report on Nursing Homes and Care of the Aged. 
In respect Of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in 
Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 43- Three 1967 reports entitled Nursing Homes. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 17 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 72- Interdepartmental report on national superannuation. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to my question No. 1 30 1 of 1 5 October 1974 and my question No. 2232 asking when I may expect an answer to my question No. 1301, does his excessive delay in providing an answer indicate that there are no activities involving the Parramatta River which are examples of innovative use of a resource which reflect the planning of his Department. 
If so, who accepts responsibility for misleading information included in Departmental reports to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many people have been prosecuted in each State for improperly obtaining unemployment benefits during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy-Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 45- Report on Care of the Aged in Australia. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy ' on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 85- Committee report on requests for troops from South Vietnam. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia', and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 87- Report on the role of Australian medical teams in Vietnam? 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 24- Systematic survey of Aboriginal health in the Northern Territory. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' and, in particular, 'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy', on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 29- Manual of Composition of Proprietary Medicines. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
: asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons make up the Priorities Review Staff. 
Who are they, and what are the names of those who have constituted it since its formation was announced by the then Special Minister of State on 19 August 1973. 
What are their respective salaries; qualifications and backgrounds. 
Why was the Priorities Review Staff appointed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Since the inception of the Priorities Review Staff, what matters have been referred to it for report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Priorities Review Staff had national compensation referred to it for report with particular reference to review the Woodhouse scheme. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
5 ) What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Priorities Review Staff had insurance referred to it for report with particular reference to the Government's role in insurance. 
) If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Priorities Review Staff had broadcasting referred to it for report with particular reference to its transfer from the Department of the Media to other departments. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Priorities Review Staff had education referred to it for report with particular reference to the policy as a whole. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
8 ) Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Priorities Review Staff had industry assistance referred to it for report with particular reference to structural assistance income and maintenance. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Priorities Review Staff had kindergartens referred to it for report with particular reference to any conflicts between the Department of Education and the Departments of Health and Social Security. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
5 ) What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Priorities Review Staff had housing policy referred to it for report with particular reference to the policies originated by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
If so, what were the terms of reference. 
What reports, programs and Government activities were considered by the Priorities Review Staff. 
What was its assessment. 
What recommendations has it made. 
Has a report been produced. 
7) If so, to whom has it been made available. 
Has it been publicly published; if not, why not. 
Is it intended to table the report in the Parliament; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2703 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the  years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2586 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2586. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 46 - Statistics on special taxation of foreign controlled companies. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 75- Commissioner of Taxation, estimates of revenue loss from tax schemes. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 48- The register of restrictive trade practices. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 49- Commissioner of Trade Practices complaints and investigations on examinable practices, etc. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What further steps have been taken towards the implementation of a scheme to accredit pathology services in Australia, as outlined in the Hospitals and Health Services Commission's Report of May 1974. 
Is it a fact that an exemplary laboratory accreditation service, the National Association of Testing Authorities, is in a position to satisfactorily operate such an accreditation scheme, on a favourable cost basis, within 12 months. 
If so, will he use NATA as the accreditation body, which was outlined in the abovementioned report. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 1301, in what way does the Government's funding through the Area Improvement Program of the Duck River Parkland Development reflect planning of the Department of Tourism and Recreation as distinct from the Auburn Municipal Council and the Department of Urban and Regional Development which has advanced the funds for the development. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2697 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2614 of the Member for Macarthur what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2614. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2606 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2606. 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it the case that the Regional Employment Development scheme is being wound down because unemployment has reached such levels that the scheme can no longer be funded at an acceptable cost? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77- 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 23- Independent consultant's report on Social Indicators and Social Accounts. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy, Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 76- Financial data on Ansett's airline operation. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard,5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 79- Attorney-General's Department, reports on abortion and homosexuality. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 6- Proceedings of the River Murray Commission and the Water Resources Council. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 7, Feasibility study of hydro-electric plant for Dartmouth Dam. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia, and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 8- Technical report on River Murray improvement works. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr. J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia, and, in particular, an Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 9- Cost-benefit analyses of Commonwealth-financed dam and irrigation projects. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 20- Office of Aboriginal Affairs proposals on Aboriginal land rights. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy-Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 21- Report on a Reconnaissance of Means for Aboriginal Advancement on the South Coast of N.S.W.- June 1 969. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 22- Assessment of the Needs and Opportunities for the Aborigines of the Kimberleys- October 197 1. 
3) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy- 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 26- Office of Aboriginal Affairs report on discriminatory legislation. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2588 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc. within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2588. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2591 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of the examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Foreign Affairs, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions', committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of the question No. 2 5 9 1 . 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2592 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio, since 5 December, 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2592. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2594 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2594. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2599 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2599. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to Question No. 2600 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of the Special Minister of State, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible/and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2600. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2607 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces etc., within his portfolio, since 3 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2607. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2608 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Police and Customs, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of Question No. 2608. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What vehicle manufacturers and vehicle component manufacturers have received grants under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967-1973 during the last 5 financial years. 
What amount has been granted to each of these manufacturers in each of those years. 
Which manufacturers have used their grants for road safety related research. 
On what projects was road safety related research undertaken and what amount was expended on each project. 
I rise to support this Foreign Takeovers Bill, not because it is the most perfect piece of legislation but simply because it will enable the job to be done adequately in the circumstances. 
-I thank my honourable friend for his valuable interjection. Of course there is evidence in much of the legislation which shows that it is imperfect. But if we seek to make it perfect we are told that we are obstructionists. I think these matters ought to be seen in that perspective. The Bill is adequately expressed, for its purpose, in the explanatory memorandum which states: 
The screening of proposed acquisitions and arrangements which would give foreign persons - 
Persons is defined as including foreign corporations-  control of Australian businesses, 
The prohibition of such proposals that are determined by the Treasurer to be against the national interest, 
The 'unscrambling' of such acquisitions and the 'unwinding' of such arrangements which are completed without due notice having been given to the Treasurer and which are determined by the Treasurer to be against the national interest. 
This Bill supersedes the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act 1972 and as it was amended in 1973 and 1974. I believe the crux of the legislation is embodied in that part which enables the Treasurer to prohibit proposals which he sees to be against the national interest. I refer particularly to clauses 18,19 and 20 in which the control of take-overs and like transactions is set out. There are essentially 3 points to the Treasurer exercising that control. He has to be satisfied as to 3 matters which are: 
a person proposes, or persons propose, to acquire shares in a corporation or a corporation proposes to issue shares: 
the proposed acquisition or acquisitions or the proposed issue would have the result that- 
in the case of a corporation not controlled by foreign persons- the corporation would be controlled by foreign persons; or 
in the case of a corporation controlled by foreign persons- the corporation would continue to be controlled by foreign persons, but those persons would include a person who is not, or would not include a person who is, one of the foreign persons first referred to in this sub-paragraph; and 
that result would be contrary to the national interest, the Treasurer may - 
It is not obligatory upon him- make an order prohibiting the proposed acquisition- 
And so on. That is the control. There are no guidelines that set out what is in the national interest. The Press statement to which we were referred when the public announcement was made, which indicated what would be done in this Bill, makes it clear that the Government has in mind certain criteria. Those criteria I find set out on page 6 of the Press release annexed to the explanatory memorandum. It states: 
The first criterion forjudging a proposed foreign takeover will be: whether, against the background of existing circumstances in the industry concerned, the takeover would lead, either directly or indirectly, to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition, productive capacity, technological change, development of new markets, production quality and range of products and services, level of prices and efficiency which would be sufficient to justify the change in foreign control of the particular industry that would result from the takeover. 
It continues: 
If the proposed takeover is judged not to be against the national interest on this basis, the following additional criteria will also be taken into account: 
Whether after the takeover, the business concerned could be expected to follow practices consistent with Australia's interest in matters such as exports, imports, local processing of materials produced, research and development and industrial relations; and 
Whether the takeover would be consistent with the Government's objectives for defence, the environment and conservation, urban and regional development or the preservation of Aboriginal land rights. 
In making judgments as to whether particular foreign takeovers would be against the national interest on any of the foregoing grounds, due weight will be given to: 
The extent of Australian participation in ownership, control and management that would remain after the takeover; and 
The interests of employees or shareholders of the business subject to the takeover. 
The reason I have read those provisions is that it is clear that the Government has in mind circumstances by which the national interest will be judged. In the comparable Canadian legislation, the Foreign Investment Review Act, which we have heard praised by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)-  this is an Act to do the same as our Act is to do in terms of controlling foreign investmentthe factors to be taken into account in arriving at an assessment are set out. I have with me the appropriate legislation, printed in French and English, from Canada. I refer the Minister to section 2 of that Act in which the purpose of it is set out. Section 2(2) is summarised in a simple brochure that is available from the Canadian High Commission here in Canberra. It states: 
A takeover will only be permitted if it offers significant benefit to Canada when the following factors are considered: 
It goes on and deals with the effect of the acquisition, the degree of significant participation by Canadians and it deals with the effect of acquisition on productivity, industrial efficiency, technological development, product innovation, product variety in Canada, the effect of acquisition on competition with any industry or industries in Canada and so on. These important factors are set out. I believe they are set out to guide any court, if it happens ever to be in a position to review a Minister's discretion and exercise of discretion. In other words if the courts are to provide any reasonable legal review this is to give them some basis upon which the criteria, the judgment of what is in the national interest, can be judged. There are no criteria in the Australian legislation by which this is to be judged. 
The question of criteria was referred to by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  He dealt, I think adequately, with the very reasons why there ought to be criteria in this legislation. He asked: 'What will happen if there is a change of government to a government which has a different view as to the manner in which this discretion ought to be used?' He said that maybe the Opposition would not use the discretion in the same way as the Government would. I think his judgment is quite correct. We may well not use it in the same way as he would. I would be concerned if the judgment were not to be exercised at all. I do not think that would be the case, but I would be concerned. I think it is clear that if the Government has some criteria and if they were set out in the legislation Australians would be satisfied that there was to be a proper basis upon which judgment would be exercised. The honourable member's point was valid but in fact it shows up the total inadequacy of this legislation. 
I want to deal shortly in the time left to me with a number of other points. This Government prides itself on its attitude to open government. I have on today's notice paper at page 8805 question No. 2255 addressed to the Treasurer. It asks: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,- 
I am sure all honourable members have been referred to this by the number of questions that I have asked. I asked also: 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 47- Treasury studies of foreign takeovers? 
I asked: 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made? If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy? 
Quite clearly the Government has no intention of allowing open government in this field. It has no intention of allowing the public to know what the criteria are and in fact the studies that have been made of which the Prime Minister was very critical at the time have not been made available for public scrutiny either. The question which I asked back in April has not been answered. I am pleased that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  is in the chamber and has remained here during this debate. I hope he will ask his officers to look into why this question has not been answered and will indicate clearly, if this information is not to be made public, what the reasons for the continued secrecy are. 
In this area, with the sort of discretions we have, a great deal of harm can be done- harm that is exemplified by the sort of headlines that we have seen in newspapers over a long period when the Government has gone on its binges of foreign company attacks. They read:  "Scare-off" foreign takeover laws begin to bite', 'List for check on foreign grabs', 'Reserve Bank to act', 'Australia is not for sale, foreign investors told'. These are the sort of headlines that we have seen as honourable members opposite seek publicity. With the sort of Act that we have without guidelines a great deal of harm can be done when that sort of power is exercised in the hands of the wrong people. 
But if one is to be realistic, the matter which is of greatest concern to me as a member of this House is the prospect that always exists that our taxation laws might not work adequately to ensure that foreign companies in Australia provide the proper taxation revenue to Australia. One sees articles appearing in various journals. One I noticed was in  Business Week  of December 1970. The article was titled 'Finding ways to beat the tax bite'. It dealt with transfer pricing and foreign havens. In the United States and in other countries a great deal of attention has been devoted to amending taxation legislation to ensure that foreign companies, by their very pricing activities and their international affiliates, are not able to avoid domestic taxation laws. 
I have here a paper that was prepared by a friend of mine who certainly was against a proposal that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  put up at one time dealing with a discriminatory form of tax against foreign companies. Considering the Europa Oil case, the 
New Zealand case which set out much of the basis upon which the Australian Taxation Commissioner might be able to review transactions which are designed to shift taxation, he wrote: 
Where ... the transaction is not so 'blatant', the Commissioner may have difficulties. 
This was in relation to the Europa Oil case. He continued: 
If, for example, in the Europa Oil case the routing of the crude oil supplies through the Bahamian subsidiary did have commercial significance, then the decision may have been resolved differently. In that particular case, the taxpayer could not justify the structure of the transaction on any ground other than tax planning. 
This gentleman went on to consider for me the part of the United States' legislation which is comparable to our own Income Tax Act at section 136 and also sections 38 to 43 of our Income Tax Assessment Act. He considered the United States section of the Inland Revenue Code. I will read the relevant paragraph of his advice on this section and will later seek to incorporate certain information which I intend to offer to the Minister so that I can conclude my remarks quickly. He stated: 
The comparable provision for allocation of income in the United States is section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code. This provision applies not only to transactions between U.S. companies and foreign companies, but also to transactions which are wholly domestic, i.e., between domestic U.S. companies. It gives the Commissioner the power to distribute, apportion or allocate income between related parties ' to such extent as is necessary in order to prevent evasion of taxes or clearly to reflect the income of any such parties'. To remove any doubt as to how the section operates, clearly detailed regulations have been issued. These cover most situations and provides taxpayers with a fair degree of certainty in structuring their commercial operations on a basis which will be acceptable to the tax authorities. A copy of this section and of the regulations is enclosed . . . 
He gave those to me. The relative sections are set out in the CCH. Standard Federal Tax Reports, pages 36, 247 to 36, 285. 1 seek leave to incorporate those pages of that report in Hansard. 
-I thank the House. I would hope in considering those sections the Minister might look carefully at the United States law to see whether our own law can be widened to ensure that foreign companies, which are taxpayers in Australia bear their fair burden as do all Austraiian taxpayers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2587 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2587. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2613 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2613. 
I want to address the House on an area of administration in which I consider the Government has shown its most glaring incompetence. It is in relation to the administration of the tertiary allowance scheme. This scheme was one of this Government's initiatives and for that it deserves, I suppose, to be commended, but for the way in which the program itself is being administered the Government deserves only to be condemned. I point out that I have drawn to the attention of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that I proposed to raise certain matters in this grievance debate today and he has indicated that he is proposing to have made certain notes on the questions that I raise in order that he may consider them later tonight. 
The tertiary allowance scheme is one in which the administration has practically broken down. There are tremendous delays in terms of considering student entitlements to benefits under the program and the administration has been organised in such a way as only to encumber the ability of students to be able to receive benefits under the program. I am told that even now there are many students who are receiving only at this late date the benefits to which they would otherwise have been entitled. The scheme has been the subject of considerable public discussion. I note that a report has been tabled on the tertiary education assistance scheme which I understand is to be known as the Williams report after the name of the  chairman  of the inquiry. The parts that I want to refer to relate not to the benefits that students are entitled to, although I might well be critical of the adequacy of those benefits and I might well be critical of amounts that are being made available under this Budget to students who, along with other people, have suffered a good deal as a result of inflation and have not in any way been aided by the Budget that has been presented. I want to refer to the comments of the Australian Union of Students in relation to the appeals tribunals. The Students Union had this to say about the appeals tribunals in general: 
AUS is concerned at the time taken for the Appeals Tribunals to be set up. The appointments to the Tribunals have still not been made public, and the machinery is still unclear. 
Of equal concern is that the Tribunals will offer little in the way of appeal, as they will be so hampered by the rigidity of the present regulations. 
AUS believes that the Appeals Tribunals should operate to interpret the principles of TEAS- of providing finance to students in economic need- rather than restating the regulations. Consequently, the Appeals Tribunals need to have discretionary powers, otherwise they cease to function as an appeals body. 
The Williams report has made no comments on the appeals structure. The student assistance regulations are the statutory rules of 1974 No. 1 79. There are 9 1 regulations and they are, in my view, cumbersome, difficult to read and to understand and certainly to be able to use these regulations in considering one's entitlement under them a person would need to have considerable legal training, in my view. 
In the time available to me in this debate I would like to take honourable members through the provisions of the Students Assistance Act, particularly divisions 2, 3 and 4 which provide for the student assistance review tribunals. The tribunals were established under section 18 to review allowances under the regulations. Division 3 provides for requests for reconsideration or review of decisions and it sets out the basis upon which a dissatisfied person should seek to have an authorised person review his entitlement. After a certain period of time if the authorised person decides against the request a person who is aggrieved may lodge a request for the matter to be referred to a tribunal. Upon receipt by an authorised person of a request under section 23 for a review by the tribunal of the decision of the authorised person he shall forward the request to the  chairman  of the tribunal, together with all the records and other papers relevant to the decision and its reconsideration by the authorised person. 
The manner of taking proceedings before the Tribunal are set out in sections 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, but I particularly want to refer honourable members to the procedure of the tribunal because it is required to be informal in its deliberations. Section 27(1) says: 
In the exercise of its powers and functions in relation to the review by a Tribunal of a decision referred to it- 
the procedure of the Tribunal is, subject to this Act and to the regulations, within the discretion of the Tribunal; 
It is absolutely discretionary as to how the tribunal shall consider its own functioning. The section goes on: 
the proceedings shall be conducted with as little formality and technicality and with as much expedition as the requirements of this Act and the regulations, and a proper consideration of matters and questions before the Tribunal, permit; and 
I have already referred to the considerable delay. The section continues: 
the Tribunal is not bound by rules of evidence. 
A party to proceedings before a Tribunal may, whether or not he is present or represented, make submissions to the Tribunal in writing. 
A copy of any submission so made shall be furnished to the other party to the proceedings. 
A party cannot be represented by a legal practitioner, notwithstanding the 91 regulations to which I have referred. I raise these matters because I want to refer particularly to the case of Robert Stephen Llewelyn of Marrickville. He was a student. The initial decision, as described in the public document being the particulars of the request for review No. 158 of 1975, was as follows: 

 Mr Llewelyn was ruled ineligible for benefits in 1975 because he had studied in his course for the maximum number of years required to complete it and had not done so. This was modified on reconsideration and he was ruled ineligible because he was half a year behind normal progress. 
This decision and the request for review were put before the Board on 23 July 1975. The Tribunal considered the matters raised by the authorised person in the first instance. The reasons for the decision of the Tribunal were given as follows: 
The authorised person ruled  Mr Llewelyn  as ineligible under Regulation 34 ( 1 ) (h) (vii) because he had studied in his course for the maximum number of years required to complete it and had not done so. At the hearing the authorised person resiled from this decision but contended that  Mr Llewelyn  was not eligible because of Regulation 44. 
In other words, this young gentleman was subjected to something that no court of law would ever accept, and that is trial by ambush by the Department of Education. He was led to believe that his application was to be rejected under Regulation 34. He prepared his case on that basis. But at the hearing the authorised person came up and said: 'No, it is not that Regulation about which we are concerned; it is now Regulation 44.' Without adjourning the hearings, without considering other matters that might have been placed before the Tribunal by the student, it went on to deliberate on the matters put before it by the authorised person under Regulation 44. It decided: 
. the decision of the authorised person must be varied to decide that he is not entitled to a living allowance by virtue of Regulation 44. 
In other words, the Tribunal decided that he was entitled under Regulation 34 but, on reconsideration, as requested, in the trial by ambush, this young gentleman was not entitled to a living allowance under Regulation 44. 
I am informed- I am not one who readily understands these regulations- that under Regulation 44 if certain information had been put before the Tribunal by this gentleman's teachers it may have been decided another way. But the decision has been taken. There is no further avenue of appeal. These informal proceedings, which had no legal basis, which are in the discretion of the Tribunal, quite clearly can wreak of injustices of this nature. I believe that that has occurred. Regulation 44 says: 
Living allowance is not payable in respect of a grantee who is undertaking, or proposes to undertake, in the relevant year less than three-quarters of a year's work for a student engaged in full-time studies in that part, or those parts, of the approved course that the grantee is undertaking in that year. 
It was alleged that he was undertaking only onehalf of the work load for the third year in which he was studying but I am informed that his academic advisers indicated, and would have indicated to the Tribunal had he been given an opportunity to bring forward that evidence, that it was in fact a full year's work load that he was undertaking. This is a grave injustice. I believe that the procedures we have are inadequate to provide a proper method of review for people aggrieved in this way. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2681 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2609 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department by authorities for which he is responsible and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2609. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974 page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples qf Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 69- Life Insurance Commissioner, exercise of discretionary powers. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 64- Department of Trade assessments of Tariff Board reports. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 65- Department of Trade survey of shirt industry. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 41- Report on Geriatrics including the Frail Aged. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article entitled Death in the Air appearing in  Pix/ People  issue of 12 February 1 975 or thereabouts, written by Bill Wells. 
If so, are the facts detailed in that article dealing with air safety essentially as stated. 
If they are not as stated, what action has been taken, and when, by him or his Department, to ensure that public apprehension is not created. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 12- Site selection surveys for Jervis Bay plant. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 13- Emission standards requirements in Jervis Bay plant tenders. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1 779  (Hansard,  5 December 1 974, page 4763 ), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 14- Atomic Energy Commission studies on costs of electricity at Jervis Bay. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
-I regard my participation in this debate tonight as a duty and not a pleasure. I listened to the speech of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the comments he made about various matters, but I think in the context of that speech many of those matters are not really deserving of my singling them out for reply. I make this point clear: It seems to me that the honourable member looks at the Budget only in .terms of priorities. If he thinks that is the basis upon which to look at a Budget, then I am very sorry for the contribution that he and honourable members opposite are making, because I regard it now as a matter of survival, and the survival of many people is vitally concerned with and related to this Budget. 
The comment that the honourable member made on education, endeavouring to indicate that in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  there was some cutback proposed by the Opposition in education expenditure, was in my view quite malicious. I would suggest that the only people who made any cutback in expenditure- which it would not be necessary for us to follow- was the Government itself. It has abandoned the reports which it had before it. It has not proceeded with the introduction of the recommendations in them, but has postponed them for a period of 12 months. One thing I did enjoy listening to was the honourable member's analogy of the Government's Budget and the individual's own Budget, because it is readily understood by most people, including me. I often relate government expenditure proposals and income proposals to my own personal budget, because I know what it is to live beyond one 's means. I get pretty close to it occasionally. This Government demonstrates in absolute terms what living beyond one's means is, and that is what we have seen from it.  His  reference to big business shows how steeped in prejudice he is when he believes that that is the sort of criterion by which people's jobs ought to be judged. 
In the thrust and parry of this debate we can aften lose our perspective. I hope that honourable members will not, because I believe that there are many people in Australia today who are relying upon us to come up with the answers. But what is the crisis that faces Australia? I spent the recess in my electorate visiting factories, speaking to employees, speaking to the shop stewards, finding out what was going on. The industries in my electorate, some of them large, some of them small- the Small Business Association was established within my electoratebelieve it is now a matter of making profits but simply a matter of survival. That is the way in which they see it. 
The workers' jobs are dependant upon the survival of industries, unless your prejudice demands, of course, that the Government controls everything. Small businesses employ of the order of 40 per cent of the work force. In New South Wales  Mr Lewis  the Premier indicated that this year of the order of 878 companies had been wound up in the 7 months over which figures were taken. In 1972 894 companies were wound up. In 1973 the figure was 1058, and in 1974 it was 1155 companies. It will not be long before those figures are well surpassed. But why are companies, large or small, in jeopardy? It comes back to inflation. Inflation is the major factor. It is recognised here and it is recognised abroad. 
I imagine that the colleagues of the honourable members opposite would have read the speech of the English Prime Minister which was circulated to all honourable members by the British High Commission. He dealt with a number of matters. He dealt with the employment outlook and he gave reasons why the employment outlook was bleak in Great Britain. He said: 
Industry's failure over the past 20 years to invest in industry, new plant, machinery, factory buildings, industrial modernisation- under successive Governments. All of us, Government and industry included, share the responsibility. 
But the third, the increasingly dominant factor, is the effect of inflation on industry's ability to provide jobs- jobs for those established in industry, jobs for school leavers. While last year it was world factors as well as our own performance here in Britain that created the main trend- this year it has been almost entirely internal prices and costs, including pay, which have aggravated inflation, hit industry and hit the housewife. 
He went on to deal with Britain's price controls and said:  . . . but there is a limit to what can be safely done by price control. Price control which cuts manufacturers' and traders' profits to the bone can drive them into bankruptcy and cause further losses of jobs. 
That is an honest appraisal. I only wish we had seen that sort of appraisal in the speech we heard in this House which purports to be the Budget of the Government. In the speech we heard, these sorts of problems were ignored. We know that inflation is the dominant factor. Wage costs have their effect. The cost of raw materials has its effect. Reduced sales lead to reduced business performance and ultimately to reduced employment. The Liberal and National Country Parties have offered in their alternative statement a number of policies which are important to the survival of business. They include a form of indexation not only of wages and salaries but also of values of stocks. It is impossible to earn a genuine profit when stock valuations exceed the profit that you make and particular items that you sell have to be purchased again to be resold at a higher price than the original stock value plus the profit that had previously and properly been taken. That is the real problem that industry has. It has been required to pay tax on artificial profits. The Mathews Committee recognised this. 
I want to deal with one crisis that I believe is now evident. It is the crises of the western suburbs of Sydney. It is not related to urban and regional development and other associated issues. It is related to employment. It is related to the employment of women in part. It is related to the prospective employment of young schools leavers. We have seen a remarkable increase in the number of unemployed women in the electorate of Parramatta and the surrounding areas, but for school leavers the problem is even more immense. I despair at the thought of what might happen if we have a large number of school leavers who do not get jobs in the New Year, who do not have a work experience, who do not believe that it is desirable for them to work, who believe that they should live off some form of subsidy that the Government offers. This lack of work experience would be most dangerous. It would lead to a cult of young people without work experience with whom we would have to live for almost another generation. I believe that we have a responsibility to provide an environment in which jobs for young people are available. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  indicated in his Budget Speech, as I have in mine, that inflation is important. He said: 
This Budget is presented at a time of high inflation and, by Australian standards, high unemployment. 
He went on, unkindly I think, to try to say that because the United States of America had unemployment rates peaking at 9.2 per cent its performance was far worse than ours. However, when it is recognised that the United States performance for the year 1960 was 6.7 per cent unemployed, for 1965 it was 5 per cent unemployed, for 1967 it was 4.2 per cent unemployed and so on until 1971 when it was 6.4 per cent unemployed and April 1972 when it was 5.8 per cent unemployed, it can be seen that the United 
States on average had not even doubled its unemployment in 1974. Comparative figures in Australia indicate that we are nearing 4.5 per cent of our work force unemployed whereas in previous years we averaged something of the order of 1.5 per cent unemployed. In other words, we had three times as much unemployment as did the United States which has nearly doubled its unemployment rate. So the suggested comparison with the United States, I believe, was quite invalid. Recognising that, the Treasurer went on to say: 
Meanwhile, unless appropriate economic measures are adopted now, the hopeful signs in the economy could prove illusory, and inflation could take off again from its already high level, to a thoroughly destructive effect. The private sector would find it increasingly difficult to function, with increasing business failures, and unemployment could rise to dramatically higher levels. 
I cite that because I believe that is what we come down to. A recognition of these factors is evident in the Treasurer's speech. The actions and the decisions that have been taken do not give effect to this. The opening paragraph of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition, I believe, is much more responsible by comparison. He said: 
The current crisis in Australia is however much more severe than the Government or the Treasurer admits. It is a crisis evidenced by the highest prolonged inflation in Australia's history and by the highest unemployment since the great depression of the 1930s. It is a crisis which eats away at the security of every Australian, at our confidence and at our way of life. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition held out the sort of hopes that people in Australia have in terms of the decisions that ought to be taken by government that might avoid this crisis. The Budget merely holds the line in terms of inflation and in terms of unemployment experienced. The positive suggestions in the Opposition program, which include the adoption of recommendations in the Mathews Committee report, a report not commissioned by the Opposition but by the Government, are most desirable with a 40 per cent investment allowance and stock valuation adjustment proposals up to 50 per cent in the first year. These proposals are certainly those to which people in industry and the people whose jobs depend on industry look. 
What are the other fundamentals of the Opposition 's approach? Our approach reduces genuinely extravagant expenditure. It includes proposals for a zero growth rate in the Public Service, the discontinuance of the Australian Legal Aid Office and that organisation - 
-No, I am not in favour of it as it is proposed by the Government for it is a proposal which will bring about first and second class legal aid in the community. Why cannot the Government embark on a program of legal aid which will give genuine equality to those in need? Instead the Government is going to help only public servants, migrants and other people in limited categories because it is so suspicious about co-operating with the States. It will provide first and second class legal aid and if a person does not happen to come into one of those categories he will not qualify. I am not in favour of this sort of nonsense. How could I support that? Then there is the Australia Police and the Prices Justification Tribunal which has brought business to the brink of ruin and unemployment with it. As well there is the Department of the Media which merely tries to excuse the Government's defaults. That is what that department is all about. These are the fundamental factors. As I walked around factories in Parramatta one thing which the shop stewards were telling me was that they wanted indexation of taxation. How could I honestly not come into this place and support that with the utmost vigour? 
-You have not. The point I want to make about tax indexation is that we will never have responsible government expenditure while governments are not responsible for raising the money they spend, and in this regard governments in this country for a long time have not been responsible. We were more responsible because we had limited inflation but this Government with inflation at its present rate is quite irresponsible. 
-State governments, I agree. And what they want and what they will receive from us is a method whereby they can be seen to be responsible for raising their own tax revenue. These are the sorts of proposals that Australians have been waiting for. Responsible government will result from them. We need a sound basis from which wage and salary restraint, which is an essential part of controlling inflation, can spring and that restraint will spring from the proposals that have been put forward for tax indexation. 
I wanted to deal with a number of other matters because it was suggested that priorities were important. I suggest to the Government that it look at some of the articles that have been published dealing with its own social welfare program and the comments of people like Professor Downing on its proposals for compensation schemes and expenditure on a national superannuation scheme and on whether we can justify that sort of expenditure when there are other people in the community with real needs. This is the same question as I raised before with respect to the first and second class legal aid that the Government is prepared to offer, and is the same as the argument I would raise in relation to students on tertiary allowances who find that there has been no increase in the money available to them although substantial amounts of money are made available for the comfortable buildings in which they might have to sit. Why does not somebody ask them whether they would prefer to have a reasonable living allowance instead of a comfortable seat on which to sit? They might be prepared to make the same sort of decision that honourable members have made. The legal aid office will accentuate the development of a first and second class poor. People are genuinely in favour of a system of legal aid which meets real needs, but we are not receiving that sort of aid from the service we have. 
It has to be acknowledged that this is a give and take Budget. Just look at the take- postal charges, telephone charges and the effective abolition of Christmas messages; the excise on beer, spirits and cigarettes; the excise on petroleum which will increase the cost of running motor vehicles and the cost of getting goods from place to place after they are manufactured. Ian Sykes of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd I believe suggested the form of tax that we have and suggested it in a very limited context. He suggested that it would be the sort of tax which would desirably raise money to enable us to search for oil and so maintain our competitive position in world markets. He did not suggest that it ought to be an additional method of ripping off money without any effective result in the long term for the community as a whole. The Australian people recognise the sorts of proposals that have been put forward by the Opposition. They recognise that there must be a cut back in expenditure. They recognise that a choice must be made, as an individual has to make a choice about whether he buys a colour television set this year or next year instead of a new car, a new frock for his wife or all the other things he might like. 
A public opinion poll was published in the  Bulletin  which honourable members opposite might care to peruse. It indicates the priorities people have about these items of expenditure. Something like 33 per cent of those polled thought we ought to cut back in the cultural and arts areas while 26 per cent thought that we should cut back on new city proposals. However, the unemployment situation is where the real disaster exists and I want to cite certain figures because they were alarming to me. At the Parramatta office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in July 1974, 50 adult females and 58 junior females, a total of 108 female persons, were registered as unemployed. In July 1975 there were 329 adult females and 487 junior females registered as unemployed, a total of $816. 
-Something of that order. 
-I think the Minister is optimistic. A factory located in Rydalmere at which I inquired had this sort of record: In July 1974 it employed 100 women and in July 1975 it employed 88 women. Another factory at Ermington - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.20)-I approached this Budget debate in a spirit different from that of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He has informed the House that he considers it a duty and not a pleasure to join in this Budget debate. I inform the House that to me it is a duty, a pleasure and an honour to represent the people of the Darling electorate in this Budget debate in our national Parliament. I was very surprised to hear the comparison made by the honourable member between the unemployment levels in the United States and those in Australia. As a matter of fact, every American or Canadian that I have met has informed me that he would be more than pleased and that he would consider that this country had no unemployment problem if the percentage of unemployed could be brought down to the level that we have in Australia. 
It is indeed very interesting to listen to the arguments put forward by those on the other side of the House in relation to the Budget we have before us. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  was very concerned about the grants being made to the arts. I must admit that such grants would not make me overenthusiastic, but I was very surprised to hear the honourable member claim that in his electorate he needs filtered water and electrification. Surely he must know that the provision of both of those things is the responsibility of the LiberalCountry Party Government in the State of New South Wales. For some strange reason he has claimed that their provision is the responsibility of the Federal Government. He ought to hang his head in shame. If 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government could not provide those things in a developed country like Australia, I think that the honourable member has reason for concern. 
When he introduced this Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  informed the House that he had to present the Budget in a climate of international economic recession. The Opposition refuses to recognise that the international economic climate has anything to do with our economic problems. We have heard it claimed that inflation in Australia has been caused by excessive spending by the Government. Ever since the Labor Government came to power we have heard the old cries about wage push inflation and industrial turmoil. As a matter of fact before the ink was dry on the first piece of legislation that we passed through this House that was the cry of the Opposition. Up until a month ago the Opposition pointed to the situation in New Zealand as an example that we could follow. The Opposition said: 'How is it that the international economic recession has not affected New Zealand?' One thing that has been very outstanding in this Budget debate is the fact that the Opposition has kept as far away as it can from any mention of New Zealand, because it knows that New Zealand is seriously affected by the international economic recession. It would be silly to say that it is not, and it would be just as ridiculous to say that any small country can isolate itself from a world economic recession. 
The honourable member referred to a publication of the British Information Service. He failed to refer to all of it. As a matter of fact, I notice that one article in that publication stated that the British Foreign Minister was very strong in his comments about the world recession. He made the statement that the world had been knocked off its axis by a universal recession and that the battle against inflation could not be won in one year. 
In spite of this recession, in spite of the obstruction of the Senate, in spite of the delays and distortions in this House, in spite of the opposition that has been generated by the Opposition parties outside this Parliament, the Australian Government has stood firm and has brought down a Budget that will bring justice and assistance to all sections of the Australian community. Of course, we had to slow down our rate of spending in many areas. Regardless of that, we have avoided a harsh contraction of government spending. We have good reason for doing that. We believe that to do that would be cruelly unfair for the hardest hit of all by inflationthose least able to help themselves, the lower paid, the large families, the pensioners, the long-term sick and the disabled. In the opinion of the Labor Party it would be cruelly unfair for those people to have to pay a further penalty to solve our economic problems. 
The Labor Party has always recognised its duty to these people. We have always set out to protect them. We are protecting them to the best of our ability in this Budget, and we will continue to do so. I make no apology for that. We are protecting them by means of sweeping reforms in the personal pay-as-you-earn tax system, by substantial pension increases, our free health scheme under Medibank, and improved education programs. For example, a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and 2 dependent children and earning $160 a week will be $7 a week better off under the Budget proposals. A taxpayer with a dependent spouse and 2 dependent children and earning $200 a week will be $10 a week better off. The Government has introduced a system of tax rebates instead of tax concessions. The tax rebate for a spouse will be $400; for the first child it will be $200 and for every other child $150. The standard rate pension will be increased by $2.75 a week and the married rate by $4.50 a week. This means that pensions will have increased by 80 per cent since 1 972. During the same period the consumer price index has increased by only 41 per cent. Surely everyone must admit that that is an achievement in a period of world economic recession. 
There can be no doubt that in the electorate some things are regarded as being unpopular. In spite of what we have done to assist those least able to assist themselves, we have still recognised the fact that on the economic front inflation is the most menacing enemy that this country has to face. Some people will say that we should have allowed for a larger deficit rather than increase the tax on beer and cigarettes, but a larger deficit would have been tantamount to abandoning our concern with inflation. It would have been a prescription for further inflation, bringing about a collapse of industry and the loss of job opportunities for many Australians. 
Despite this period of universal recession spoken about by the British Prime Minister in the magazine to which the honourable member for Parramatta referred, this Government has increased its total outlay in education by $237m. Expenditure on education has now reached the gigantic amount of $ 1,908m. This provides a clear indication to young Australians that this Government has a concern for their welfare and that it will not put a mortgage on their future opportunities just to solve our present economic problems. During the first full year in which this Government was in office it doubled the expenditure on education. In the next year that expenditure was almost doubled again. It was quadrupled in just under 2 years. This would not have been the case if the Opposition were still in office or if it were returned to office. How could any young Australian expect it to be the case after 23 years of neglect? Organised protest by a few young Liberal Party students Will fool no-one because members of this Government have telegrams coming into their offices from all sections of the community congratulating them on maintaining a very high level of expenditure on education. The Government has increased expenditure on schools, teacher training colleges and the expansion of technical and further education. We have accepted further responsibility in tertiary education. We have introduced a new students assistance scheme. We have increased academic salaries. All these things give the lie to the often repeated rumour spread by members of the Opposition that this Government could not or would not maintain its high level of spending on education. 
It must be admitted that governments alone cannot solve all the problems of a nation. If we do not wish to finish up in the same state of economic and social collapse as other countries then we must seek the co-operation of all sections of the community. Where does the Opposition stand on this very vital requirement? I believe that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  never left us very long in doubt about where the Opposition stood. He claimed that half the deficit was caused by the $ 1,444m appropriated for Medibank but failed to mention that $ 1,000m of this was to cover the cost of the old health scheme. Here we have the same old distortion, the same old disregard for the truth, and the same old obstruction. It is a case of pontics before the welfare of the nation. This has been the distinguishing mark of the Opposition parties since they became the Opposition. 
We hear much about wage-push inflation and the unreasonable demands of trade unions, but world authorities have a different opinion about what causes inflation. Professor Harry Johnson, Professor of Economics at both the London School of Economics and the University of Chicago, has stated that inflation started in the 
United States of America in the late 1960s because of the crippling cost of the Vietnam war which was financed by inflation and not by taxation. Because of the United States ' predominant position in the world's economy, this inflation was transported to the rest of the world. I believe that it can be said that most of the huge expense that this Government is facing at the present time can be traced back to Australia 's involvement in the Vietnam war. If this was not so, why did not the Liberal-Country Party Government provide finance for the education of young Australians? Why were schools and universities allowed to become rundown? Why were State transport systems neglected? If it was not for our commitment in the Vietnam war, why do not members of the Opposition parties tell us they could not provide this finance? Thinking Aus.tralians did not have to wait for this Budget because the Opposition's record was there for aU to see. If it was returned to office it would repeat what it has done before. Even now, Opposition members are crying out for more and more money for defence and at the same time are telling us that we should spend less and less on every other section of the Australian community. According to them $400m spent on health brings about an economic problem. They say that it causes inflation but minions of dollars spent on the Vietnam war does not create any problems. 
We appeal to the trade union movement. Of course, we hope it will assist us out of this economic situation. But we do not blame it for everything that has happened. We seek its cooperation. We claim that industrial costs must be kept down- aU forms of income. We point out to unions that if they use too much industrial muscle to get pay increases to enable their members to escape the rigours of inflation, this will be done at the expense of those weaker than their members, those young people whom the Aus.tralian Government sets out to protect. In the long term the workers also will pay dearly themselves because they and their families will have to face the backlash of inflation that their own wage demands cause. 
The Liberal and National County parties cry crocodile tears for the unemployed of this country. But what happened when I made an appeal to the previous Government to assist at the Broken Hill South mine when 700 employees were about to be retrenched? The Minister Assisting the Minister for Labour and Immigration at the time went to Broken Hill and walked around like an undertaker. He was very sad. But he came back to Canberra and forgot aU about us. As a result 700 people were retrenched from the South Mine. That mine stayed closed for 6 months until the workers themselves were able to encourage another company to open it up. That same company made $lm profit in the first quarter of its operations. That shows how concerned the Liberal and National Country parties are about the unemployed of this country. Its attitude to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill should leave no doubt in anyone's mind about their concern for Australian industry. 
The members of the National Country Party have a lot to say about education. Because of the serious economic situation in the back country there were many school-age children in my electorate who never had a schoolbag when I first came into this Parliament. It was not until this Government introduced the isolated children's grant that some of those children were able to receive a better education. The States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act was passed just before the Opposition parties were tossed out. This legislation gives some indication of their concern for the people who have to leave the land. Part 4 of this Act, which deals with rehabilitation, contains this passage: 
To provide limited assistance to those obliged to leave the industry where in the opinion of the Authority administering the scheme it is necessary to alleviate the conditions of personal hardship. 
The Act states that in such circumstances a loan of $1,000 may be granted. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention been drawn to indexed item 1 1- Environmental studies of the Jervis Bay nuclear power plant. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister 's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 50- The Randall report on wool. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,  and in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 5 1- Costing of the Australian Wool Industries Conference 1972 proposals. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in 
Australia and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 52- Cost/benefit assessment of the Yennora wool centre. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2689 of the member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2692 of the member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in Part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2589 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Social Security, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2589. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2590 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Agriculture, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2590. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2593 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio since 5 December 1975. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in pan ( 1) of question No. 2593. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2596 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio since 5 December 1 972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2596. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2604 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2604. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2610 of the member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 26 10. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2702 of the member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2603 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Postmaster-General's Department, by authorities for which the Postmaster-General is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the PostmasterGeneral's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2603. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to Question No. 2675 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763) has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 81- Decentralisation Committee, independent reports on cost of city water and traffic congestion. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2611 of the Member for Macarthur what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2611. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2700 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No 1779 (Hansard, S December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy on  pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 47- Treasury studies of foreign takeovers. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2595 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2595. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2597 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part (1) of question No. 2597. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 44- Report on Nursing Homes Benefits. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2685 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. . 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2679 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in Part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When may I expect an answer to my Question No. 1771 placed on the Notice Paper on 1 3 November 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled Secrecy- -Political Censorship in Australia and, in particular, An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy, on pages 177 to 180. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 84-Independent consultants report on Australian Industries Development Corporation. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: 
With reference to question No. 2601 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 260 1 . 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2677 of the member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in pan ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2602 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2602. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  and, in particular,  'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy',  on pages 177-80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 15- Department of Repatriation internal manual. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  and, in particular,  'An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy',  on 177-80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 28- Consumer Tests of Automotive Products. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2699 of the member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2605 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972? 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2605? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2680 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2678 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in Pan ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2690 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2612 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972? 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in pan ( 1 ) of Question No. 26 1 2? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
With reference to the Anzac Day service traditionally held at the Concord Repatriation Hospital, for how many years have services been held. 
Was the service discontinued in 1975. 
What was the cost to the Government during the last 4 years of arranging and holding such services, and what was the nature of the expenditure. 
How many people for each of the last 4 years have participated directly in the service. 
Was the form of service broadcast directly to immobile patients. 
If the service has been discontinued, who made the decision to discontinue it. 
Why was the service discontinued. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1) How many journalists are employed in the Australian Government Liaison Service. 
Who are they. 
What grade journalists are they. 
What are their respective salaries. 
5 ) What are their duties. 
Who were their previous employers. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice:  &lt; 1) With reference to Question No. 2686 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
With reference to Question No. 2684 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice:  (!) With reference to Question No. 2694 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr. J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,  and in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 55- Chinese communications on resumption of wheat trade, 1971. 
) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,  and in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 86- Department of Foreign Affairs background papers on China, Japan, Russia, etc. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What was inadequate about the service of the Postmaster-General's Department that required a quantity of Legal Aid Office advertisements, i.e.,  Women's Weekly  lift-out items, to be delivered to my office at Parramatta by Kwikasair Pty Ltd. 
What fee was paid to Kwikasair Pty Ltd. 
3 ) What would be the comparative parcel post charge. 
In what manner were similar parcels dispatched to all other Members, and at what cost. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2683 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to question No. 2696 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
I have enjoyed this debate very much. I think the part which I have enjoyed most was the contribution of the last honourable member. To me Urenville sounded delightful. I regret to inform the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr 
Uren) that one of the residual powers of the Government of New South Wales is exercised through the Geographical Names Board which does not permit the naming of such places after living persons. 
My remarks will be brief because tonight I intend to address myself to only one topic and not to try to canvass the field as many honourable members have done, including the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  whose speech I have heard many times without the references to my boyhood. 
It is a pity, I believe, that honourable members such as the honourable member for Chifley cannot look at urban and regional development in relation to the management of the economy, the state of the nation and responsibility. I think it is important to look at our capacity to be able to pay for things and to do what we like to do. I have a shopping list as long as my arm, as most honourable members have, but we have to look at the capacity of the nation to pay. I understand that one of the matters for which we have to pay is the proposal to develop in Parramatta a government centre. In the estimates that I have seen for the civil works program there is some reference to the development in Parramatta. Unfortunately I have found little which will clarify the Government's program to me. I enter this debate to invite the Minister to explain the Government's program to me and to other people who are interested in this important development. 
The civil works program envisaged that the Parramatta office development would cost $47m. That was in the proposed new works for New South Wales. But when I looked in the summary to find out the amount of money that was likely to be spent on proposed new works in the year 1975-76, it seemed to me that only $2,871,000 would be spent. This seems to be a very small sum considering the large number of developments that come under the heading 'Proposed New Works'. I dare say that that amount would have to be shared among many developments. The observation I draw is that very little money is intended to be spent this year. If it is the intention of the Government that the money that is being spent on the site at the moment- namely, for fencing the site- is all that is to be spent, I would be very disappointed. This site at the moment is one of the few sites that provides large scale parking facilities in the Parramatta community. The great fear exists that with the closure of that site chaos will occur on the streets of our district. While one might be prepared to accept some degree of dislocation if the development were to proceed promptly, I would submit that such dislocation would not be warranted if the expenditure is to be only $ 1 00,000 or so to erect a Cyclone wire fence around the site. I said that my comments would be brief. But I do ask that some clarification be given to this matter. I have searched the Budget papers. I have read all the documents that I can find on this aspect, including the Civil Works Program and the statement on urban and regional development. I found that those documents were couched in generalities when I was looking for detail. 
The other matter that I would raise, if the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has the time to deal with it, is the progress on the Parramatta railway project, which is referred to at page 48 in his paper on urban and regional development. Because the details of that project, in common with the Parramatta office development, are couched in generalities no one would know what form of progress we were likely to see and what sort of route one would expect the railway to follow, if it is to be built. What sort of priorities would be effected? When are we to expect some relief from such a proposal? To me, it is important if we are to continue to avoid solving the parking problems, for some rational alternatives in the form of public transport to be advanced, on which decisions should be reached quickly. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1) With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my Question No. 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention be drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 7 1 - Melville report on portability of superannuation rights. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
I quote firstly the words of the Attorney-General. He said: 
Ready and equal access to the law and the legal process is the birthright of every Australian. 
I accept this statement. Unfortunately I cannot agree that this Bill gives effect to those words. I am most concerned that we will develop several systems of legal aid some of which will give first class legal assistance, because one government has more money, and others for people who do not qualify for that legal aid a second class form of legal assistance. That is what the scheme before us does. It is most unfortunate but the form of the Bill and the form of the Constitution, unless there can be co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth, automatically give rise to such an unequal form of legal aid. I believe we need to have a co-operative arrangement whereby funds can be made available to the States from the Commonwealth to fund a form of commission run by both governments which will give legal aid on this basis or some other agreed basis but will not be selective in the ways in which it is given. 
All the commentators demand that legal aid be equal in terms of the eligibility of people to be able to benefit from it. I could not help but agree with the conclusion of the authors Ross and Mossman in an article entitled  Legal Aid in New South Wales: Politics and Policies.  In their paper they went through and dealt with many of the matters that have been considered in the numerous reports leading up to this important piece of legislation. When one reads articles such as that published in volume 47 of the  Australian Law Journal  by Vinson and Homel one realises from the findings there that legal representation seems to be of considerable importance to the outcome of proceedings. This is why equal aid is essential for people who appear before our courts. I refer honourable gentlemen to volume 47 of the  Australian Law Journal  in which the necessity for legal representation to get equality before the law is dealt with in a very well documented way. It clearly indicates the desirability in proceedings where a person's freedom is involved of having the assistance of legal representation. 
But the problem that I pointed out was highlighted in a letter that I received from the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when I wrote to him about certain advertisements that I believed were misleading. The Attorney believed, contrary to my views, that the advertisements were accurate and not misleading in the way in which they presented the Australian Government's scheme. He said: 
They made it clear that the area within which the Australian Legal Aid Office provides legal aid is the area within which the Parliament is empowered to make laws under the Constitution. The Office does not assist only in Federal matters. It provides legal assistance in matters arising under State law to persons for whom the Government has a special responsibility, including persons in receipt of social services, newcomers to Australia, servicemen, ex-servicemen and students. 
He says that this is clearly within constitutional power. That letter makes it clear that persons who do not fall within those limited categories are not entitled to legal aid in matters that do not relate to Federal laws. They may be able to be referred to somebody else. They may be able to be told that they can go and see the Public Solicitor. They may qualify under the Law Society scheme. But surely that is the very problem which we have with this form of legislation. I have not discussed this with the Attorney but in view of the small amount of time that is left for me to participate in this debate I ask him now whether he is prepared to give me leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a schedule of legal aid available in New South Wales which was prepared by  Mr Kershaw,  the Legal Aid Manager for the Law Society of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2691 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 197 1-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2598 of the Member for Macarthur, what has been the total cost to the Government of examination of issues and preparation of reports by the Department of Labor and Immigration, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
What is the cost apportioned to each report referred to in part ( 1 ) of question No. 2598. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many community advisers are attached to his Department and other bodies which are funded by the Department. 
Who are they. 
What are their duties. 
In what districts are they to operate. 
What are their respective salaries. 
What are their respective qualifying experiences, and who were their previous employers. 
-On the last occasion I addressed the House and was part heard on this matter, I quoted, favourably, the words of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  when he said that ready and equal access to the law and legal processes is the birthright of every Australian. I said on that occasion- and I stand by that view- that nobody would disagree with this proposition, particularly honourable members on this side of the House. But I cautioned honourable members because I believe the Bill that we have before us- I stress this point- will not support this very desirable proposition put forward by the Attorney-General. In the words of the  President  of the Law Society of New South Wales in his message contained in the supplement to the Law Society Journal of August 1975: 
The Bill cannot and does not seek to legislate for the provision of a total scheme of legal aid to apply to every person in need in every part of Australia. 
I have said before and I will say again because I think it is essential that all honourable members understand this point: Legal aid, in the terms of this Bill, will be available only to people seeking it in relation to federal laws and matters arising out of federal laws. In matters arising under State laws legal aid will be available only to persons to whom the Government has special responsibility. They include persons in receipt of social services, newcomers to Australia, servicemen, ex-servicemen and students. That is a very limited class of persons. They are the only persons who can receive this State aid. I submit that matters arising out of State laws would be the substantive matters that are raised in our courts. 
At the moment we have a variety of schemes which apply in the various States- some sponsored by the law societies, some sponsored by State governments, and the Australian Legal Aid Office. I have shown to the Attorney-General a schedule of legal aid available in New South Wales. It was sent to me by the Law Society. I seek leave to incorporate that schedule in  Hansard. 
-I normally find the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  most convincing when he puts an argument to this Parliament, but today I must say that I have been exceedingly disappointed, particularly in relation to his analogy between this Bill and other Bills that are before this place at the present time. I think it is quite specious to suggest that he would treat delay of this Bill as rejection and yet when other important pieces of legislation are before the - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I welcome the assurances in relation to the Standards Association of Australia. I ask the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  whether he may be able to give me the same assurances in relation to the National Association of Testing Authorities. The Minister may recall that I put on notice some time ago to his predecessor, the then Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  this question: 
Will he outline the role NATA will play in ensuring quality control for consumer services and goods within Australia. 
The Minister answered: 
The Commission for Consumer Affairs which the Australian Government has decided to establish will no doubt wish to make use of NATA laboratories in appropriate cases for testing of consumer goods. I recently proposed that firms should regard NATA registration of their laboratories as a recognition of having reached a standard of quality control acceptable to the Association; such use of NATA registration would assist the public to identify those firms that have established adequate quality control. 
I found in that answer some lack of reassurance. Certainly it indicated that the Minister was limiting the use of NATA to appropriate cases, whatever that meant. One could well see in the answer that there might be some selectivity in the approach taken. I was under the impression that NATA itself had adequate quality controls in relation to the laboratories that achieved its registration. I am somewhat concerned at the way in which members of NATA may have been left in some doubt as to the Government's acceptance of such registration. Having regard to the approach that the Minister has taken and particularly references that he has made to other manufacturers and the use of their facilities I should like to know whether there has been the same degree of liaison with the NATA organisation to achieve appropriate recognition of its standards and if there is any doubt. I wish to be assured that that organisation will be able to play a proper role in the consumer protection provisions under sub-clauses (g) and (h) of clause 8 and particularly in relation to those paragraphs relating to consumer standards- 35, 36, 37 and 
They seem to be very permissive in terms of the directions given. It is particularly because of the permissive way in which those clauses are drafted that I ask the Minister for this assurance. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 1 00 examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 70- Legal opinion on the lowering of the voting age to eighteen. 
3 ) In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No. 1779  (Hansard,  5 December 1974, page 4763), has his attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 1 77 to 1 80. 
Has his attention also been drawn to indexed item 19- Commonwealth Solicitor-General's report on Aboriginal land rights. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Emigration, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to my question No 1779 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4763), has the Minister's attention been drawn to the book of  Mr J.  J. Spigelman entitled  Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia  and, in particular,  An Inside Dopester's Index of 100 Examples of Secrecy,  on pages 177 to 180. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to indexed item 60- Department reports on suspected breaches of the National Service Act. 
In respect of that item, has it been made publicly available since 1972; if so, when, and in what manner, and by whom was the disclosure made. 
4) If the item has not been made publicly available, what is the reason for the continuing secrecy. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
I do not wish to canvass the matters that were discussed in relation to the amendment that was just considered by the House. However, I want to refer to some comments that were made in relation to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that there has been considerable cooperation in the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs notwithstanding the present crisis that was referred to by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson). 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the staffing of the Department's Aboriginal Employment Sub-section. 
What growth has occurred in the Sub-section quarterly over the last 2 years. 
What positions in the Sub-section have remained unfilled during the last 2 years, and for what periods. 
How many officers in the Sub-section have retired or transferred for reasons of ill health, and what has been the nature of the illness. 
Can he say what is the comparative staffing in the field of other Departments working in social and welfare fields with Aboriginal people. 
It is my delight to follow the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  in this debate. I very much enjoyed his contribution. In the spirit of gamesmanship shown by him I will delight even further in bringing my game of monopoly along next week so that we can each delight in some play with bogus money.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I congratulate you on your election to your office and I would be pleased if you would pass on to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his election. I also would luce to congratulate our maiden speakers of today. I was particularly delighted to hear the speeches of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  so well presented. I am able to say with a great deal of confidence that they were good speeches because the most unbiased observer I know, in the same way as the honourable member for Hunter has such an unbiased observer to comment on these things- my wife- asked: 'Why couldn't you make a speech like that when you first came here?' 
-I found it difficult to reply. I am able to say with a great deal of confidence that in the time I have been in this place this was the most outstanding Speech presented by a Governor-General. I believe that the program set out by the Governor-General will be an outstanding one and will be acknowledged as such by the people of Australia when all the honourable members on this side of the House who present themselves at the polls on the next occasion are re-elected. The nature of the program was fully set out in that Speech but I want to comment on particular parts of it. One of the paragraphs that was very pleasing to me appeared very early in that Speech when the Governor-General said: . . . my Government believes that the Australian people have given it a strong directive to bring under control the highest unemployment for forty years and the worst prolonged inflation in the nation's history. The Government believes that excessive government intervention in the life of the nation is a major factor in economic instability. 
We saw during the period of office of the former Government the problems that can emerge when governments seek to interfere in our way of life generally and in every direction. This brought about many problems for us as an Australian people. That cannot be denied. We only have to look at the record of the former Government, as the Australian people did, to see it- inflation of record proportions; unemployment of record proportions. I regret that our colleagues opposite can so glibly ignore their record upon which the Australian people passed judgment not so long ago. Some recent comments ought to sit uneasily in all our minds. They were made by a prominent Australian company director with whom we are all familiar, one in whom the previous Government had some confidence because it appointed him as a member of the Jackson Committee. He said that Australia was losing its competitive thrust. I quote from the  Financial Review  of yesterday which reported: 
Australia was no longer so competitive a supplier to world markets as it was in the 1960s, the  chairman  of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd,  Mr R.  H. Carnegie, said yesterday. 
Speaking to the International Banking Summer School at Melbourne University,  Mr Carnegie  said Australia shared the disease 'of international suspicion about foreign ownership'. 'There is a slowly growing recognition, learnt by experience, that foreign ownership is beneficial as well as having disadvantages,' he said. 'There is not yet a recognition that Governments require only the will- they already have  the power- to control investment so that the abuses of other  countries  and of other times are not repeated. There is still, unfortunately, an impression that the investors of the world are in an eager queue to put money into this country. That impression is shared as much by ordinary Australians as by many people in positions of electoral or administrative power. Australia is no longer so competitive a supplier to world markets as to reproduce the position we had in the late 1960s. As you all know, the world as a whole has changed-, and many others are seeking for the scarce long-term capital available.' 
These are important comments of which we all ought to take careful notice. I remember some constituents coming into my office during the post-election period. They recently had been in the New Hebrides, an area not so far from us. They were able to tell me of numbers of people they knew in the New Hebrides who would not buy Australian products and who would not order any Australian commodities because they could not rely on delivery dates or firm prices for products that might be supplied by us. They preferred to get them from Great Britain. Heaven knows, Great Britain has problems enough with its own economic conditions. Yet still it is able to offer a regular and certain supply of goods and services to a place in a far distant part of the world. Even in our region we are not competitive. In our region we cannot offer goods and services. We cannot get them loaded into ships effectively and efficiently without real problems. This must be recognised by all of us. Until we get Australians who are prepared to work, without seeing a conspiracy in everything that is undertaken, we will not succeed. Some honourable members opposite recognise the truth of these comments because they had the courage to make such comments when they were in government. Yet others did not have the courage to hear them or to heed their words. This was part of the problem that members opposite experienced when they were in government. 
Australia has a new government. It Will be able to offer to the Australian people solutions to many of these problems. We are getting back to a stage at which we will be encouraging people to work. We will be limiting the transfer of resources from the non-productive public area to the private area of Australia. This is important. The Speech made mention of this. It states: 
There will be a major direction of resources away from Government towards individuals and private enterprise; the internal structure of the Government is being made more economical and effective. 
Coupled with those words were further comments which I would like to read, with a great deal of pleasure. The Speech states: 

 Major reforms will be implemented to protect individuals from being subjected to massive unlegislated  tax increases. 
This ought to be recognised. Over a long period we have had government without responsibility. Governments ought to be responsible for raising the tax revenue that they wish to expend on our behalf. Inflation of record proportions, as we have seen, is a method, but not a terribly subtle method, of reaping to the Government large and excessive increases in tax revenue. If governments are to be responsible for spending the public money they will be so only when tax is indexed so people will be able to see when their taxes are being increased for additional services. 
I believe this is a major reform. I believe it to be the most desirable reform that any government could put before the Australian people. The clear undertaking to effect this reform within 3 years, which was put in the Speech of the Governor-General and which is to be first implemented in the next Budget, I believe, is most heartening to all Australians. Coupled with this are the new arrangements for federalism. They will play an important part in making our State colleagues responsible. There is nothing worse than having State governments which are able to attend a Loan Council or a Premiers Conference and argue for increasingly large shares of tax income but which are not responsible or seen to be responsible for raising the additional money which they might seek. There is nothing worse for the credibility of a Federal government than for it to be attacked continually after a Loan Council or a Premiers Conference for not being able to give the Premiers all that they might have asked for. They need to be responsible for the money that is raised by them and for them. When they are responsible the expenditure of State governments is more responsive to the needs of the people they represent. A fundamental principle is that all governments- Federal governments, State governments and local governments- ought to be seen to be responsible for the money that they raise, ought to be responsible for the way in which it is spent and ought to be accountable. Only by this program will we achieve major reform. I have a strong personal commitment to it. 
I am pleased that the Speech of the GovernorGeneral states that the Government has an equally strong commitment to it. Some people have tried to distort this program. Some people, such as the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  argue that there is involved in this program double taxation. Nothing is further from the truth. It is an absolute distortion. When we have inflation at the rate at which we have had it, taxation has been more effectively doubled by allowing inflation and by allowing taxation to increase in the way it has. Double taxation was the effect of Labor's programs and policies while in office. It certainly will not be the effect of our programs to give to the States the responsibility for setting their own tax levels and to make them accountable for the way they spend it. Some people have argued that it may be difficult to set up and that there may be problems. There may be problems. Such a system has been developed in Canada and has been working effectively. It can be developed here. 
There may be problems in first setting the shares that the respective States shall receive. I believe that New South Wales and Victoria, as the populous States, need to be seen to have certain budgetary problems which have developed over a period because of their support of the smaller States. I am not saying that the smaller States should not be supported, but I am saying that one must examine carefully the level of support to see that it is really equalisation and not an advantage that accrues to some States as a result of the formulae that apply. One fight on that issue will not matter a great deal if we eliminate the sort of problems that occur, that have occurred over a long period and that will continue to occur whenever these agreements need to be negotiated, even on the basis that we have at the moment. I believe that this part of the program will go down in Australia's history as the most momentous reforms that have taken place. It will make governments truly accountable for the first time for the money that they raise from the Australian people. 
-Undoubtedly, as a States' righter, he believes it. He wants responsibility. Very often the States do not have it. That was so particularly when people like yourself were in government. You were quite prepared to direct how their money ought to be spent so they could not be accountable for it. You know that as well as I do. Already major reforms have been proposed in the area of government spending. We have seen advanced already in this program administrative savings. We have seen a curb in the growth of the bureaucracy. We have seen direct savings in government expenditure of $360m immediately for part of the year, which would yield in excess of $ 1 ,000m in a whole year. The Administrative Review Committee is examining the expenditure proposals generally to make further reforms.  Mr Fraser's  remarks, which I heard recently on an interview, ought to be taken to heart by all of us. We ought to recognise this. The Commonwealth Government, with the deficit which it has, is now the poorest of all governments in Australia. It is some $7,000m in debt. None of us ought to forget it. 
Many problems will need to be overcome. I recently spoke to a director of a building society. Although he did not say it to me, he might have felt unhappy about some of our proposals in relation to liquidity, etc. Yet he said to me: 'You cannot expect our economic problems to be cured without a dose of castor oil'. I think that is a true and proper way of looking at it. We cannot expect to overcome the problems which we now face without making some difficult decisions and without being prepared to make those difficult decisions. Already we have seen that the Government is prepared to take difficult decisions. Some of them are difficult. One that hits me very hard personally is the cut in the grant for overseas aid of some $24m. I do not believe anybody would want to make such cuts in government expenditure lightly. I do not believe anyone would support such cuts if they were put to us as an individual item. Probably members on the other side are now writing to people who might write to them and are saying: 'We disapprove heartily of what is being done. If we were in office it would not have happened like this'. But this has to be seen in the context of overall budgetary responsibility. It also has to be seen in terms of the willingness of the Australian people generally to give up something themselves to support other people in other countries whose circumstances certainly are not as good as our own. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I did not wish to come into this debate tonight to answer the comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  but I believe that his comments have been so excessive and so extravagant that one could not let them pass. Quite frankly, any suggestion of corruption or collusion on the part of a State government in any matter which involves development within a State is of course quite obviously incorrect and fallacious. One would expect a State government on the face of it to be responsible and to make decisions on their merits unless there is other evidence that might suggest that there is something to the contrary. All that was suggested by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was that some decision was made in relation to the development at Woolloomooloo. How can that involve corruption and collusion? On that basis we could say that every decision that was made by honourable gentlemen opposite when they were in Government was corrupt or involved collusion, where they made decisions on matters in which they had some responsibility to act. It is as silly as that. It is obvious to all those who would read the report on Woolloomooloo that it is as silly as that. No evidence has been offered and no suggestions made as to how there could be any collusion or corruption simply by a decision to allow a development project to proceed. One must look at the area of Woolloomooloo. 
-I do not think that is relevant at all. 
-It is not relevant at all. If you have got some charges to make, maybe you would like to make them and see if you can make a better fist than the gentleman you elected as your Deputy Leader. The question one ought to look at is this: Is Woolloomooloo suitable for residential development or any other type of development? Is it suitable for residential development? 
-I am surprised that you would say that or either suggest that it was suitable. Here is an area cut by expressways, cut by major roads, cut by a railway, and dotted with commercial development which has taken place over a long period of time. What the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is saying is that this is the sort of area in which we ought to spend a tremendous amount of money acquiring land that we do not have already. 
-I am saying: 'Here is the situation', and you are saying that in every other area where the construction of an expressway may be proceeding it is going to destroy the amenity of the area and make it quite unacceptable for people to live in. These were the arguments advanced in relation to Glebe. Yet you are saying in the same breath that you ought to go to another area that is already cut by expressways and railways and build there because it is a most desirable area. 
-I know it well. The honourable member may represent part of the area. He ought to try to find his way around it. He would know as well as I do that what I have said is true. 
-I would have difficulty finding my way there. The fact of the matter is that Woolloomooloo is a basin bordered by commercial, industrial and office development. The Opposition wants to say to people that they should go into an area that has all this sort of development around it and think that they are living in a desirable locality, I think it is offensive to the people that you would want to shift in. 
-If you are inviting me, I would love to come and have a walk around with you at some time. 
-I would tell them that they could live in far more desirable locations, perhaps even in the electorate of Sydney. These are matters that honourable gentlemen opposite treat in an emotional way with an emotional attachment. They are quite prepared to say that millions of taxpayers' dollars ought to be spent without adequately examining the proposals and the alternatives. I am not saying that the sort of office block development that we see in the rest of Sydney is the sort of development that ought to take place in Woolloomooloo. I do not want to offer any comment on what is desirable, but I am quite prepared to say that the development formerly proposed, involving millions of dollars, was not a desirable development when it envisaged a residential community growing in that location. It would be harmful to the amenity of the area; it would be harmful to the morale of the people. I believe it would result in all the problems that people have said might occur when they have criticised the sorts of proposals that the New South Wales Housing Commission had for Waterloo and which it has now abandoned, so far as I can gather, in favour of seeking from people comments on further proposals for that site. One of the substantial reasons why honourable gentlemen opposite are not sitting on the Government side of the House now is that, in relation to all these sort of proposals, they had extravagant commitments that people believed they could not honour and put into effect. They did not believe that their money should be wasted in this way. 
It is a waste if a government, in building welfare housing- in all cases when building welfare housing the value of the land has to be taken into account; it cannot be excluded- spends sums in excess of that required for the type of home for which one would reasonably expect to provide as welfare housing. It is extravagant if a government spends $ 10m to build homes which it could build in another area for, say, $5m taking into account the cost of the land, because it could provide on that basis twice the number of homes. When governments are building welfare housing they do not have a responsibility to provide luxury waterfront accommodation at a welfare rate at the expense of other Australian people. 
-This is the point I am making. I am talking about high-rise residential accommodation close to the water in Woolloomooloo. Those are the sons of proposals we have seen advanced. I think honourable gentlemen ought to recognise that such projects should be the subject of further study- that is all I am saying- so that the Australian people will know they are getting value for money, and so that those people for whom we have the responsibility to provide because they cannot provide for themselves are properly accommodated. If honourable gentlemen opposite would like to take the sort of approach they are taking now, to provide half the accommodation for the same amount of money, let them come and see some of the people in my electorate who are on waiting lists for welfare housing and tell them what they are saying tonight. Perhaps we could have a reciprocal arrangement. I could visit the electorate of Sydney and the honourable member for Sydney could visit my electorate. I will introduce him to people on the Housing Commission lists and he can talk to them. We will get two of them in the room and he can say: 'Under the proposal we are advancing you will get a home and you will not, but if you accepted the Liberal's proposals you would both get a home'. Let him tell them that. That is what he is saying. He is as irresponsible as that. I am ashamed that those people who say they care about the welfare of other people want to be so extravagant about spending the money that they raise from Australian taxpayers. 
-When I concluded my remarks last night I was making some comments in relation to the question of cutting government expenditure. This area of the Governor-General's Speech was very important. Undoubtedly we will all have to cope with the questions that arise from the Government looking carefully at costs and expenditure. We heard some comments this morning at question time in relation to the cost of running the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I believe that the controversy that has raged recently over the possibility of the reintroduction of viewers' and listeners' licences has started to bring the question of the cost of running the Australian Broadcasting Commission into some perspective. I think that all honourable members must be prepared to look at the cost of running this very large monolithic organisation. They must be prepared to look at how the curbing of its expenses can be justified and also at these expenses themselves, and ought to be prepared to examine fresh proposals that might bring additional revenue to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. From inquiries I have made, I make the suggestion- honourable members might be prepared to look at this at some time and perhaps even the Cabinet might be prepared to consider it- that the Australian Broadcasting Commission take advertisements to redeem some of the costs of running the Commission. At the moment, if we do not pay for the Australian Broadcasting Commission by way of licences we pay for it by way of taxation revenue; we pay one way or another. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation accepts advertisements. If honourable members had an opportunity to read the  Canada Year Book  they would appreciate that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation receives a substantial revenue from advertisements that are telecast by that Corporation. It has similar functions to our own Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Canadian Corporation's total operating expenses for the year 1973 were $237.2m Canadian. It received a gross revenue of $49.4m from advertisements. I believe that in looking at an organisation like the Australian Broadcasting Commission, if it is possible for certain types of programs to have advertisements without interfering with the nature of the program, one could well find that this is a means of gaining for that organisation additional revenue that does not come from the public. I am asked by interjection what the Corporation's ratings are. The Canadian Corporation's ratings are reasonable compared with the ratings that we see for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. As I understand it the Canadian Corporation has certain areas which are exempt from advertisements. I have obtained a statement from a summary of the report of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation which states: 
There will be new patterns for scheduling of advertisements on TV, adding certain program categories to those already unavailable for advertisements, and ensuring that viewers will see major presentations in the arts and public affairs without commercial interruptions. 
But quite clearly, when the Australian Broadcasting Commission operates in areas in which commercial broadcasting stations have to have advertisements, consideration ought to be given to asking it also to raise revenue itself on a truly competitive basis. I thank honourable members for listening to this suggestion amongst others. We have to consider all sorts of avenues of raising money when we are in the difficult times that we are in. As I said yesterday, the economic times that we have now require us to be prepared to accept a dose of castor oil. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer who will be aware of the concern of Australian small businesses that the proposed investment allowance will not apply to items of plant and equipment costing less than $1,000. Has the Treasurer given full consideration to the point of view of small business and is the Government prepared to reconsider its decision in this matter? 
I welcome the constructive debate that has taken place on this Bill which is not opposed by the Opposition. I would particularly like to commend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  on his most thoughtful contribution. I am sure that all other honourable members were impressed, as I was, with his depth of knowledge on this topic and with his constructive suggestions on the Bill generally. I was particularly impressed with his comments about the type of person who should be appointed to the role of DirectorGeneral. As one who has had some legal training and who is still entitled to call himself a solicitor, I would not seek to retain the provision that the Director-General must always be a judge or a legal officer. In my view it would be most undesirable to limit to one particular class the persons who could be appointed. The types of persons suitable for appointment must always be as large as possible and the number of people from whom the Government can choose must be as large as possible. Circumstances can change. Whilst a judge may be the suitable person now, there may not be a suitable judge offering at some time in the future. This Bill has been amended to provide, contrary to the wishes of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  that the person appointed may be a judge. That is a very desirable amendment and one which I support. 
I would also like to commend the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  on his constructive comments in this debate. I hope that I am not treading on any corns that may emerge later when I say that I was particularly pleased by his suggestion that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should not be under the control of the Prime Minister. I am pleased that responsibility for the Organisation will rest with the Attorney-General who has responsibilities in other fields which sometimes require him as the Government's principal law officer to take an approach different from that of the Government. I think that someone who has to act in that way is better suited to be directly responsibile for the administration of ASIO. Therefore in making those comments there may be 2 Judases- one on each side of the House- if it is ever envisaged that control of ASIO shall be taken from the Attorney-General. I found it difficult to relate the honourable members comments about a police force to a security organisation. I would not in any way like to endorse his overall comments that the role of a security organisation is similar to the role of a police force. Whilst I think that it is better to have the matter in the hands of the Attorney-General because of his particular responsibility to the Parliament, I do not accept the reasoning of the honourable member for Prospect who compared the role of a directorgeneral of a security force to the role of the head of a police force. The example he gave related to New South Wales. 
When the Leader of the Opposition spoke on this Bill he referred to some of the titles. I feel that he was giving vent to some of his own views on titles. That is one of the matters that brought the former Government into a great deal of disrespect in the eyes of the Australian people. It was always seeking to change titles. It was doing so in this particular Bill amongst others. There may have been good reason for trying to standardise titles but the cost to the Australian people of the continuous seeking to rename authorities and to bring about new titles for organisations was tremendous. For instance, if one went around buildings in the Australian Capital Territory one would find drill holes in walls where signs had been removed and replaced by new signs. In being critical of the capacity of the former Government to change titles I would also be critical of my Government if we were seeking to go around and change them back for the sake of changing them back. 
It is clearly the case here that to want to change the title from 'Director-General' to 'Director' would be embarking upon this task of changing the title simply for the sake of changing it. Be that as it may, some reference also was made to the reinsertion in the enactment clause of the term 'the Commonwealth of. I am pleased at this reinsertion. One of the factors we had to live with under the former Government was that it always wanted to call itself the Australian Government as though it was the only government of Australia. I never heard anybody, even on the other side of the House, suggest that the United States of America ought to change its name or suggest that in some way it was not a country which was made up of a number of States that had brought themselves together into a form of federation. The United States of America is proud of its name and I am proud of the name 'Commonwealth of Australia' for the same reason, because it signifies the unity that was brought about when various States were prepared to give up part of their separate privileges and rights to bring about a unified country. It is part of our heritage and the title, the name, is part of our heritage and it ought to be seen that way, particularly as nobody was prepared to go to the trouble of putting to the Australian people that we ought to change the title as it is known in the Constitution. 
The Constitution calls us the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia. An important point is that nobody at any time has suggested that there ought to be a referendum to change that name. The Australian people were never asked. When I looked at these titles which were being foisted on us and then looked at one of the Bills of the former Government in preparation for this debate tonight, there it was. There appeared the words: 'Be- it enacted by the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives of Australia', and that is not the title by which we are known in the Constitution. The title clearly is as it is shown at the commencement of this Bill: 'Be it enacted by the Queen, and the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia'. I welcome those changes. 
Finally, I am pleased that this debate had the constructive comments we heard from the honourable member for Isaacs,  (Mr Hamer),  because there has been a great deal of denigration of security organisations throughout the world. I believe that the world has been done a disservice by the people of the United States of America in the way in which their parliamentarians have played the role of the devil's advocate in relation to their own security organisations which have been brought into considerable disrepute. They are not trusted at home and it is unlikely they will be trusted abroad. I have not seen in what has been revealed circumstances that really would lead me to have substantive doubts about their capacity as security organisations but I do have doubts about their capacity as organisations to function well in the defence of the free world. 
I am pleased that in this debate we have not heard the denigration of our security organisations but have seen demonstrated a preparedness on both sides to discuss the appointment of a judicial officer who will become the head of our organisation, a man who was appointed at the first instance by our opponents, the former Government, and in whose appointment we concur and are now proceeding with. He is a man in whom we can have trust- obviously we have because we are proceeding with the appointmentand he is one in whom the Opposition can have trust. I believe this is important because the security organisation works in our own interests as a country and it will work in our own and our best interests only if it has the confidence of the Australian people and if we can allow it to continue to function without it having to reveal what it is doing and the way in which it is undertaking its task, so destroying its capacity to undertake that task properly and in our own interests. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the considerable public interest throughout the Australian community in the possible mining at Aurukun in northern Queensland, will the Prime Minister indicate what is the Government's attitude to the possible development and what action it is considering? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to statements by  Mr Justice  Kirby,  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission, that attempts to break down the secretiveness of government would run into intense opposition? What steps does the Prime Minister propose to take to ensure that adequate information is available to the public? 
I welcome the establishment of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I welcome the opportunity to follow the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in what has unfortunately become a debate. One of the matters mentioned by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  when he moved for the establishment of this Committee, was the general co-operation that was evidenced by members on this side of the House with members opposite when they were in government in this area and in relation to the problems that Aboriginal people and Island people suffer. All members who sat on the former Committee endeavoured in every way to offer advice in a co-operative spirit and to come to grips with those problems. We recognised that they were not easily surmountable. This is the reason for the establishment once again of a committee. I do not mean to be unkind to the former Minister, but I regret very much the way in which he skated over the contributions of people such as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who had ministerial responsibility under former governments of our persuasion. 
You said, quite unkindly I believe, that the only time attention was given to these matters after the 1967 referendum was when your Party came to office. 
-You can read  Hansard  tomorrow. It may refresh your memory. That was the nature of his comments. Too often members opposite try to depict that they are the only people who have any concern, any compassion. I reject entirely that point of view. It was unkind of the honourable member for Hughes not to draw attention to the work of members on this side. He singled out the honourable member for Mackellar who has given service not only on the Committee but also in a ministry. 
-I would not accept that statement. Let us look at the unkind comments made by a gentleman who, I would have thought, would have made a more constructive speech on this important question. He drew some observations out of paragraph 2. He said that we should be suspicious in some way of a paragraph which reads: 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
It is a fact that in areas which have no relationship to Aboriginal Affairs but which impinge upon the welfare of Aboriginal people States have responsibilities. We have seen this already in the action of the Queensland Government in the area of mining. Obviously a committee and a government must seek the co-operation of those who have responsibilities. That paragraph was not seeking to divest this Parliament or the parties represented in it of their responsibilities to the Aboriginal people, but it was an injunction to those who have responsibility to involve those who have responsibilities in other areas which are not directly related but which are certainly related. I think he was a little unkind in his reference to the amount of money that was made available and in his statement that it was of such great importance. In many respects money has been the kernel of much of the complaint that Aboriginal people have about their present condition. I refer particularly to one of the problems that was mentioned in each of the Committee's reports. That was the problem of alcoholism. Nobody can deny that there is a problem. I submit that it relates very much to extravagance in terms of the amount of money that finds its way into the hands of people who have not yet learnt exactly how we use it and how it ought to be used responsibly. I believe that there can be better ways of ensuring that the same amount of money can be used to get to the core of the problems. 
I became a member of the Committee shortly after I was elected a member of this House. I did not find its work in any way unrewarding, and I submit that none of the members who sat on the Committee found its work in any way unrewarding. They may have been unrewarded by the Australian people for their services in this area. I do not propose to comment on the other reasons why they may have been unrewarded last December. There was one member of the former Parliament whom the honourable member for Hughes overlooked. That was the former member for Tangney,  Mr Dawkins.  He was a member of this Committee during the last Parliament. He gave a great deal of his time and effort to it. I wish to pay tribute to the work of Manfred Cross, the former member for Brisbane, as I believe, as would all members who had the privilege of serving with him, he had a tremendous interest in the welfare of Aboriginal people. He brought all his skills and ingenuity to bear in trying to assist them. He was served ably by the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  as  Deputy Chairman,  who worked, in my view, with the same devotion and the same dedication to a cause which none of us would deny is worthy of our every effort. 
I mention also the members referred to by the former Minister. I would like to mention them by name, if I may. They were Gareth Clayton, the former member for Isaacs;  Mr Collard,  the former member for Kalgoorlie; and  Mr Thorburn,  the former member for Cook. In the time during which I served on the Committee I found each of those gentlemen to be genuine in the way in which they approached these particular problems and in the effort that they put into their work on the Committee. I do not want to make any comment about the reasons they are not in the Parliament now, but it certainly is not because of any lack of devotion to the cause which we all served that they are no longer here. I would encourage honourable members on this side of the House not to believe that service on committees of this type will necessarily lead to a fate similar to that experienced by those honourable members who now have to be replaced. 
I would like also to commend the work on committees of the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  Each of those gentlemen has put into this cause that same effort which we all believe should be put into it by honourable members if we are to come to grips with the real problems that face Aboriginal people. The reports that we brought down before the Parliament were not our only contribution to the welfare of the Aboriginal people. To the credit of the Ministers who sat on this side of the chamber in the former Government and who had responsibility in the area of Aboriginal affairs and in the area of urban and regional development, as it then was, I am pleased to record the pleasure that members of the Committee felt in receiving some advance notice so that they had an opportunity to discuss with Ministers Bills, as they then were, on such matters as Aboriginal land rights and the National Estate, which had particular interest to the Aboriginal people and which related to their own national heritage, which is of the utmost importance. 
Honourable members have had pointed out to them the reports that were brought forward. The inquiries into each of the matters that had been referred to the Aboriginal Affairs Committee had been completed, and the studies that were commenced were completed to the obvious satisfaction of the Ministers who were then responsible. There were no particular tasks which the Committee had before it at the time when the Parliament was dissolved. However, I know that the members who served on that Committee were very anxious to come to grips with the problems of health and the problems in the education area which the Aboriginal people faced. We wanted to look at particular areas in Australia where we know that problems of great magnitude exist. The country areas of New South Wales and the Northern Territory in particular were those areas which members on the Committee singled out. 
The report on the inquiry into the present conditions of the Yirrkala people was one which the Committee had already started when I joined it in 1973. 1 believe that that report was one of a continuing interest to parliamentarians. The inquiry was commenced in 1963 and was a longstanding commitment of members of Parliament to the welfare of people who were affected by mining development. That is a problem which will not in any way diminish. I believe that whoever serves on the new Committee ought to be well aware of the report into the conditions of the Yirrkala people and ought to be prepared to undertake similar examinations in relation to further developments that might take place in the mining area which may impinge upon Aboriginal communities. 
As I mentioned before, even in that report particular attention was paid to the problems that liquor created even in that locality. I refer honourable members to recommendation No. 14 which stated that the Liquor Ordinance should be amended to allow the prohibition of bottle sales after certain hours in areas where it is deemed necessary. In our later reports which followed the inquiry into Aboriginal health and related matters in the south-west of Western Australia similar recommendations were made in relation to this problem of alcohol. The matter of alcoholism received some six specific recommendations. In addition we looked particularly at the questions of housing, education, recreation and health. 
The report in which I was particularly interested was the one referred to by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and which was concerned with Aboriginal unemployment and the special works projects. It was probably the shortest of the reports prepared by the Committee but it was one into which a great deal of time was put in its preparation. I had a great personal commitment to the special works projects and what we were trying to achieve. I think that all honourable members ought to acknowledgeit was one of the matters that I pointed out very strongly- that although we preached to local government, to State governments and to private enterprise that they ought to take on Aboriginal people and train them and bring them to the skills that might equip them to take other positions in the community in which they live, it was genuinely recognised that in areas in which the Commonwealth had responsibility in rural communities no real effort was being made to involve it in projects similar to the special works projects. Even the Commonwealth Employment Service, which had a responsibility to find jobs and to create special works projects for the Aboriginal people did not employ Aborigines in its office employed on a form of special works projects, training them to take up positions in that area. Similarly the Postal Commission, as it is now called- it was formerly the PostmasterGeneral's Department- which is active in all communities, did not seek to take on and train any Aboriginal people. Special emphasis was placed in the report on the need for the Public Service Board to give attention to that matter and for Australian Government instrumentalities actively to recruit Aborigines for employment and to create positions for them. This is an important Committee. It is one from which I look forward to seeing many reports. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased to be able to make a contribution to this debate following that made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He may be somewhat surprised at the comments I am about to make. I was very impressed with his speech, as were some of my colleagues. In fact, some of them had the gall to suggest that perhaps it was time that he thought of joining us on this side of the House where one is free from the usual Party strictures in government and can make constructive contributions. It is pleasing to see that now that he is free from the shackles of government the honourable member, a member of the Opposition, is free to give to subjects some of that independent thought of which we know he is so capable and to put it before the House so constructively as he did this evening. 
I wanted to make some general observations which are not totally in line with his because I do not have the knowledge that he has of the particular matters that he has mentioned, arising out of his own experience on the Australian National University Council. I am not sure that the words that he used, that is, that there has been in this area a gigantic rip-off, are fully justified. Generally speaking, I do believe that we have to be prepared to look at the tertiary area as much as any other area of government expenditure to satisfy ourselves that we are getting value for money and that the people we are turning out as graduates are able to play a worthwhile and constructive role after we have spent the large amount of public money that we do spend on bringing them to the point where they can call themselves graduates of a university or college of advanced education. 
When one sits down and tries to do a cost benefit analysis of what a university degree means to the community and what it means to the person, it becomes a very difficult exercise. Those who have tried to give us some idea of what the benefits are as against the cost to the community have found it a difficult struggle. Notwithstanding the fact that there are no results from these studies and that the decisions are very much subjective, we should not allow our decisions in these areas to be guided so often by our emotions. In some of the past Universities Commission reports suggestions have been made that we ought not to leave it to the experts to tell us how much should be spent because these matters are largely for political decision. 
The Bills that we are debating tonight, particularly the Bills in relation to universities, arise out of the 1976 recommendations of the Universities Commission, the one year when the triennium report was rejected by the former Government. In the introduction to the sixth report of the Universities Commission the criteria laid down by the former Government for determining programs for 1 976 are set out as follows: 
Recurrent expenditure in 1976 is to be at a level which maintains existing standards; 
The present proportion of the relevant age group going on to tertiary education is to be maintained; 
New initiatives are to be deferred; 
Expenditure on capital projects already commenced is to be continued; 
New capital projects are to be limited to those demonstrably essential. 
Those were the criteria which the Commission had to work on and they formed the basis for its report. Clearly the matters raised by the honourable member for Prospect are not matters that the Commission in this report was able to consider, although no doubt in the preparation of its report for the next triennium these matters amongst others would quite possibly be open for review. The recommendation was accepted by the former Government and, from the report which forms the basis for this legislation, it was accepted by the present Government that recurrent expenditure is to be set at a level which maintains the present standards. Similarly, the same number of students in the relative age groups are to go on to university and tertiary education generally. These are important matters that we ought to consider. 
I was very concerned about the cost benefit situation. As I mentioned earlier, the benefit of a university education accrues to the individual and to the society as a whole. They may be quantifiable in money terms or they may be, more subjective, in terms of human development and development of the intellect. But how does one quantify these benefits in a report? How does one undertake an analysis of these questions? Where does one bring into account the costs borne by students and families, including the income forgone during a period of study to gain employment later at a higher level and, presumably, with higher remuneration, and the cost of educational subsidies both direct and indirect? We have a situation now where tertiary education is free. In 1969 at the request of the Universities Commission while working on its report for the 1973-75 triennium, certain cost studies were initiated and costs were taken out for full-time students in particular faculties in Australian universities as at 1969. These were estimated by  Dr C.  Selby-Smith. I notice that it was suggested in the report that the results of this study closely resembled those gained by  Dr B.  R. Williams in his study for the Australian Vice-Chancellors Committee reported in  The Australian University  of July 1972. Included is a table which sets out the cost but I will deal only with the total cost by way of faculty in 1969. The total cost for a full-time student in the faculty of veterinary science was $4,374; in agricultural science, $3,641; in medicine $3,479; in dentistry, $3,371; in engineering, $3,302; in science, $2,177; in architecture, $1,117; in arts, $1,535; in education, $1,456; in law, $1,363; and in economics, $1,334. That study was made in 1969; but, so far as I know, there have been no further studies on these matters. It would appear to me that those costs would be much higher today, particularly now that university fees have been done away with. Those studies indicate the cost to the community of producing a graduate in each of the faculties. As I mentioned, the cost in veterinary science was $4,374. 
It is much less in comparison. These are the costs that the community bears in order to produce graduates, without really knowing whether they are to be used effectively and without really having achieved adequate methods for manpower forecasting. Although there are problems associated with demands, there is certainly a recognition in the Universities Commission studies that social demand ought to have a place so that people who want to go to university, within reason, can be accommodated over and above what are recognised manpower needs. In universities in Sydney, in the arts faculties in particular, we have already seen evidence that we are producing more graduates than we are able to employ gainfully, and there ought to be greater consideration of the manpower needs. These questions ultimately must relate to the cost of university education and tertiary education generally. 
These are the questions which this year have been largely overlooked and have not been part of an overall study by the Commission. Certainly the report upon which the programs for these Bills are being based is on the expenditure proposals fixed on the criteria in the report that I mentioned. 
-That may well be so. 
-I will clarify that for the honourable member. The figures related to the cost per equivalent full-time student for particular faculties in 1969. So they were average annual costs. I appreciate the honourable member making that clear. I do not think I alluded to whether they were yearly or total costs of producing graduates. We ought to know, in assessing our priorities, what these costs are. We ought to be prepared to look at them as individual members of Parliament, sometimes even perhaps across party boundaries if that can be achieved more often than it is. Clearly the matter in the report was from the direction of the former Government. The former Minister for Education, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  indicated that he accepted responsibility for the direction of the report. I certainly was very pleased with the recognition by the honourable member for Prospect of the need for us to look at spending in this area. I think it was implicit in what he was saying that he recognised the need to examine spending in all areas as this Government is doing. 
I mention two other matters in relation to the problems facing students  vis-a-vis  capital expenditure in the universities and  vis-a-vis  the whole of the expenditure program that we now have. Tertiary allowances have to be considered by us also. I believe that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has these very much in mind, but clearly there ought to be a general recognition of the problems that we have with the tertiary allowance scheme as it was introduced by the former Government. I have raised from time to time some matters that have concerned me in relation to the administration of that scheme. When I spoke on the States Grants (Universities) Bill 197S last year I raised specific examples which I will not raise again but which I believe still need to be looked at. 
I also mention the problems of university colleges. In the period of inflation through which we have been, from which we are still suffering and which we are endeavouring to control, university colleges, particularly at the newer universities, have had real problems which we have to recognise. When I spoke on the States Grants ( Universities) Bill 1975 I alluded to the problems faced by universities, such as Macquarie University, and I dare say Flinders University, Murdoch University and La Trobe University. Each of these universities in establishing colleges has led private organisations, very often church sponsored organisations, into a situation where they have had to raise a large amount of money to build new colleges. They have been faced with tremendous interest problems in servicing the money they had to borrow to build the colleges. Their problem is very different from the problem of funding and subsidising colleges in the older and more established universities. There was some recognition of the problem in the Universities Commission report in paragraph 8.1, which states: 
The Commission is proposing the same increased level of recurrent grants for affiliated residential colleges and halls of residence as is recommended in . . . the Sixth Report. 
I submit that that in itself does not recognise the particular problems which I know newer universities face as a result of interest charges on the debts that they have incurred in building colleges. I know that that again is a matter that the Minister has very much in mind. It may well be that some of the money from cost savings that could be initiated in these areas- the honourable member for Prospect canvassed the problems involved- might have to be expended in other areas. I believe that some of the priorities have to be looked at a little more closely than they have been to date. 
It must be recognised that in this area of expenditure in which we have accepted the legislation prepared for the former Government, based upon the Universities Commission report and based upon the other reports received by the former Government, expenditures were generally pared very much in comparison with other expenditure programs that the previous Government permitted to go on. I submit that in the universities area and in the education area generally efforts to reduce expenditure had been made previously. This is the reason why the area of education, particularly as evidenced by the Bills that we are now discussing, has been left largely unimpaired in terms of the approach that this Government has taken to date. This is the reason why we have accepted fairly readily the reports and recommendations that we have received. But I do not think acceptance of those points in any way detracts from the need to examine very closely the total area of expenditure in universities. I think it gives the Government good reason to examine fairly closely the comments of the honourable member for Prospect, perhaps to submit to the Universities Commission that some of these matters are open for review, and to demand of the Universities Commission that a good deal more thought be given to these questions which I have raised on cost benefit and on manpower needs. Those things will have to be done if we are to get value for money in this area. 
-The House is debating a statement delivered last week by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on the unemployment benefit work test and the measures announced by the Government designed to tighten up that test. Honourable members will recall that in January of this year certain modifications to the work test were announced, particularly in relation to the work test itself, the way in which people ought to present themselves for employment and the wider occupations for which people would be required to seek work. The further measures that have now been announced include the extension of the range of jobs to which beneficiaries may be referred after they have applied for this benefit, and before they obtain it, the requirement of an unemployed person to lodge an income statement personally with a Commonwealth Employment Service office before payment is made and the proviso that the benefit not be paid to school students during the long vacation. There is also to be a requirement that a skilled person will not continue to .receive employment benefit 6 weeks after his registration for employment if he is not prepared to accept a lesser job for which he is thought to be suitable. A further amendment provides that if people voluntarily relinquish their positions they will not be entitled immediately to unemployment benefit. The question which is being discussed is the reasonableness of those amendments to the work test. 
It has become quite clear during this debate that the Australian Labor Party is divided and confused in terms of what approach it ought to adopt to the proposals that have been put forward by the Government. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  indicated earlier in the debate that his approach to the matter is a moderate one and that the situation would have been little different if he had been in Government and had to make decisions on the same question. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  saw it as a divisive matter. They saw it as a plot on the part of the Government to try to bring about differences in the community, to try to bring about differences in the community, to try to create divisions and to indicate that there were people in the community who were not entitled to this benefit, that the Government was calling them names, and so on. In fact, in my view, the honourable member for Burke almost tried to resurrect the matter in old class warfare terms. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  saw the matter in economic terms. He saw it merely as an instrument of economic policy designed to try to save the Government money in terms of its proposals to cut costs across the board. Quite frankly, I do not think that the approach of the Government can be summed up in any of those terms, but if I were to look for the closest description I would probably plump for that of the honourable member for Oxley, who saw the amendments being made to the scheme by the Government on the recommendation of its officers and its departmental representatives as being not unreasonable. 
-Last night during the adjournment debate the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  raised an important matter which is of great concern to me and my electorate. It concerns the proposal for the development in Parramatta of a Government centre. Unfortunately he did not advise me in advance that he intended to raise this matter. If I had not been in the House at the time I probably would not have been aware that the discussion was taking place. In speaking towards the end of the evening, when he could have given me an opportunity to introduce some material in relation to this important question, the honourable member endeavoured to use all of the time available to wander on in his inimitable way dealing with points that he was raising over and over again to ensure that no time was left for me to speak. What was he doing last night? He was beating up some old news that had already been before this House and had already been substantially reported in a local newspaper. In fact, his whole speech was to beat up some news from the Parramatta Press. 
Whilst he was alleging last night in this House that a Parramatta project had been abandoned it had already been made clear that the project had only been deferred and that was in a statement made by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  The honourable member for Chifley endeavoured to draw some solace from the fact that the paper circulating in my district was the Parramatta Advertiser and that the proprietor of that newspaper was one Rupert Murdoch. He endeavoured to suggest that because this statement had been made in a paper belonging to  Mr Murdoch  it somehow showed that this particular matter was worse than it might otherwise be. Quite frankly, the only observation I could draw from the fact that it appeared in the Cumberland newspaper was that it demonstrated quite clearly the lack of bias in the Murdoch papers that has been demonstrated through all the issues they have had to deal with both nationally and locally. 
In his treatment of this important matter the honourable member for Chifley brought a great deal of ridicule, I believe, on this important project and did it no benefit whatsoever. I would like to say to the honourable member, nicknamed previously in this House 'Rent-a-Mouth', that I do not want him rented out to deal with important matters concerning my electorate. I would rather he stayed in his own place. If his people in Mt Druitt have problems, and no doubt they do, I would be grateful if he would deal with those and not feel obliged to offer any service on this important matter to Parramatta. 
This is an important question. Problems in Parramatta cannot be seen in isolation from problems that face the Australian community in general. I am prepared to accept this and the people of Parramatta are prepared to accept this. Quite clearly the honourable member for Chifley wants to see what happens in Parramatta in isolation from what affects the Australian people as a whole and he wants to try to say that this issue ought to be seen in isolation from the important matters that face Australia, such as our economy and employment. I do not want to ignore these questions, nor do the people of Parramatta. 
As a result of the policies which the Australian people asked this Government to implement we are going to see a transfer of resources from the public sector of the community to the private sector. This means that in terms of the development of government projects there probably will not be in the immediate foreseeable future- I put that in terms of one or perhaps 2 years- the same number of public servants in the Public Service as there are now. What the honourable member for Chifley is asking us to agree to is the building of a project to accommodate 5000 public servants when there will be some thousands of public servants fewer in the Public Service than we have now. In other words, if we have to consider the number of bottoms on seats in the Public Service there will be numbers of desks at which and numbers of seats on which people could sit that will be vacant. I do not think the people of Parramatta can properly demand- and I am not demanding it for them- that a Government centre be built at great cost to the Australian people which will be empty at completion. That is the important consideration. I am prepared to accept that and I have put that view out to my local paper in the form of a handout I made this week. I am not going to run away from the real issue because bottoms on seats is the real issue when it comes to deciding to construct a building of this nature. 
It is important, in my view, that this project ultimately should go ahead. I have had conferences with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have been to him. I have spoken to him about it. I have spoken to the responsible Ministers about this and I have put this view. I am confident that they see it and recognise it. My view is that when the Government needs a place of this type clearly Parramatta will be the site to be developed and it will be the place in which the Government will proceed with a development which will meet its needs. I stand behind the statements that I have made all through. This project, in the form in which it was proposed and with the community facilities that were offered and associated with it, ought to go ahead as a whole when the funds are available and when the need is there and I cannot ask for anything more, nor would the people of Parramatta ask for anything more. 
I do not have any guilt about this matter. I believe that in every respect I have represented my people as fully and as responsibly as I should. I cannot ignore the important questions that face 
Australia as a whole and I cannot, as RentaMouth does, see this matter in isolation from the other issues that face Australia. I cannot simply say we should go ahead with this project and build a building which will be empty at completion, and that is the real issue. Clearly there has been co-operation with me by responsible Ministers. The people that the honourable member for Chifley relied upon for his advice, the Australian Labor Party aldermen on the local council- defeated ALP candidates- do not speak for Parramatta and do not speak for Parramatta in this House. I am the person who will speak for the people of Parramatta. I am their duly elected representative and I know their real concern. I know the reason why I was elected with a majority of 12 000 votes. It was because of the approach that the Government will take in relation to the economy and in relation to employment that it won and will keep on winning, and when it is responsible to build this centre in Parramatta it will be built. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to certain comments in the Sydney Press concerning the recent underground nuclear explosion on an atoll in the Pacific. He may have observed certain reports that the Government's line against testing in the Pacific had softened since the change of government. I ask him: Is this true? 
-I rise in this debate because I have been somewhat provoked and somewhat maligned in the debate that took place in this place last Thursday. I should like to refer if I may to some rather emotional comments by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who suggested that in some way because his speech was one that was deserving of ridicule I was seen to be giggling. The honourable member said: 
I can assure the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  who at the present time is giggling like a senior member of the Sistine Chapel Choir and who no doubt has the same physical attributes as a member of that choir - 
I think that is a most unkind reference-  and his colleague who is sitting on his left that they, among others in the Government ranks, will be mentioned to pensioners in their electorate. 
Whilst I may be part of the Sistine Choir- and I am somewhat flattered- I regret to say that honourable members opposite seem to me to be more like members of a glee club who have found some new emotional issue upon which they can let fly and upon which they can look at us on this side and say, 'Look here, if you are going to take this sensible and rational approach we will go out and mention it to your pensioners; and not only that, we will write letters to all of the pensioners in your electorate ' and in that way I ought to be intimidated from taking a decision that I regard to be correct. I want to spell this out very clearly because we have a situation in Australia in which we have haves and have-nots and we have a situation in which benefits are paid to people who do not deserve benefits. 
What ought to be known and acknowledged is that here we have not a pensioners funeral benefit but a pensioners' and beneficiaries' funeral benefit. In 50 per cent of the cases, on average, beneficiaries are the people who get the benefit, not the pensioners. It is something that in a large number of the cases goes not to people who are in need but rather to people who are beneficiaries- people who may expect substantial assets from an estate. They may receive a home or other things because they happen to accept that responsibility that I might accept in attending to the final arrangements for, say, my own parents who may not happen to be pensioners when their time comes. 
By all means. I hope you will take a copy of my speech and distribute it because I will do so with pride because I believe in what I am saying and I believe it strongly as there are real areas of need in Australia that we must reach and which we must solve. We will not do it by having  ad hoc  benefits that are benefits for pensioners on the one hand and beneficiaries on the other hand. 
Another aspect must be looked at in relation to the administration of a benefit of this type. Here we have a system which is expensive to administer for very little money in the hands of those in real need. If the system is worth $ 1 .5 m in a whole year it is really $750,000 to those who are in real need such as a pensioner who loses a spouse. I acknowledge that in that case there is a situation of real need but in the other cases there is the situation in which somebody passes away and his or her pension needs to be determined. What happens is that a death certificate comes into the Department of Social Security and a clerk has to sit down and tick off all the particulars, deal with the matter and arrange a date, a much later date as it happens to be, on which that pension is terminated. In addition, another copy of that death certificate, or it may be the same death certificate, goes to another clerk in another section who has to sit down and take the same particulars off the same certificate and arrange ultimately to draw a cheque. Nobody can tell me that that form of benefit is efficient use of resources, that that is efficient government or that it is assisting in providing for those people in real need. 
In our policy great emphasis has been put on the need to rationalise the delivery of social service programs and I accept that this program at the moment is being part of an analysis of rationalisation and ultimately there will be a program which, in accordance with the recommendations coming from the Henderson inquiry into poverty, will be available to reach those people who are in need in our community. I am not prepared to accept the emotional arguments of those people opposite who have been quite determined to cash in on this matter, to cash in on the lack of understanding of these issues on the part of people in our community who may be more elderly and not able to comprehend immediately the analysis of this situation in the form that I have argued it today. Those who sit opposite are saying that here is something that is being taken away from the pensioners and they are building that up as an emotional argument, yet in the same breath they are prepared to ignore the plight of the superannuitants, prepared to ignore the plight of the poor in our community and those who are on small incomes, prepared to ignore the plight of people in rural communities, for instance, those who are relying on farm incomes that have been depleted, and so on. There are many people in these situations who are far more deserving than the beneficiaries of pensioners who happen to have passed away. That is the test, and it is the test that those opposite ignore. I object to the fact that in this place we- have not seen a preparedness on the part of honourable members opposite to come to grips with this issue and to argue it in relation to the matter that we have to discuss and that is the termination of the funeral benefit, but instead have been prepared to argue it only in comparison with other supposed injustices across the board which they allege exist in the Australian society. I cannot accept this emotional approach and I rise with a degree of anger because of the approach that honourable members opposite have taken. I believe that they have most unjustly maligned us and I object with as much force as I can muster to the pressure that they have sought to bring to bear upon honourable members on this side in the emotional way in which they have endeavoured to handle this important issue. 
Tonight I direct the attention of the House to a petition that has been circulated by the Australian Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International. Honourable members will know that Amnesty International is a world wide human rights movement which is independent of any government, political faction, ideology or religious creed. It works for the release of men and women imprisoned anywhere for their beliefs, colour, ethnic origin or religion, provided they have neither nor advocated nor used violence. These are termed prisoners of conscience. 
The parliamentary group has amongst its membership members of the Liberal Party, members of the National Country Party and members of the Australian Labor Party. It is an active group concerned primarily about the plight of people like ourselves who have the responsibility in their own countries of upholding the rule of law. We are concerned, and I am particularly concerned, about some of the information that has been made available recently by Amnesty International concerning fellow parliamentarians in other parts of the world. One of the facts that has been made known by a recent statement by Amnesty International is that there are now 112 parliamentarians in 14 countries who have been imprisoned or who have disappeared without trace. Almost all of them were prisoners of conscience. Some were detained in violation of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the majority have not been charged. It has been ascertained that some members of Parliament have been tortured. Most of the people on the list are prisoners who have been up for adoption by groups of Amnesty International throughout the world. A number of cases at the moment are fairly comprehensively documented. The majority of the parliamentarians who have been arrested and held for a long period of time come from India and Indonesia. In those 2 countries in particular they were arrested whilst they were still members of Parliament. In other countries such as Uruguay, Brazil and Singapore prisoners are former members of Parliament who were arrested either after dissolution of the legislature or because of their alleged involvement with proscribed political parties. 
Amnesty International is concerned about people irrespective of political views or the governments that they represent. Our group in the Parliament is equally concerned to demonstrate its freedom from bias in the treatment of matters that come before it. I would like therefore to direct the attention of honourable members, if they have not already seen it, to a volume produced by Amnesty International entitled  Prisoners of Conscience in the U.S.S.R: Their Treatment and Conditions.  One of the Soviet laws that has caused people to be gaoled under circumstances Amnesty regards as questionable is article 70 of the Soviet criminal law, which states: 
Anti-Soviet Agitation and Propaganda. Agitation or progaganda carried on for the purpose of subverting or weakening the Soviet regime or of committing particular, especially dangerous crimes against the state, or the circulation, for the same purpose, of slanderous fabrications which defame the Soviet state and social system, or the circulation or preparation or keeping, for the same purpose, of literature of such content, shall be punished by deprivation of freedom for a term of 6 months to 7 years, with or without additional exile for a term of 2 to 5 years, or by exile for a term of 2 to 5 years. 
The same actions committed by a person previously convicted of especially dangerous crimes against the state or committed in wartime shall be punished by deprivation of freedom for a term of 3 to 10 years, with or without additional exile for a term of 2 to 5 years. 
Officials of the Soviet Amnesty group have been detained under this article of the criminal code, prosecuted and gaoled. In particular, a former  president  of the Soviet group, Doctor Sergei Kovalev, was sentenced last December to 10 years imprisonment, and it is believed that the trial was the subject of many violations of correct procedure even within the Soviet legal system. Honourable members would be interested to know that the former secretary of the Soviet group is shortly to be brought to trial himself. This is  Dr Andrei  Tverdokhlebov, He is presently in gaol and is likely to be brought to trial. We have ascertained from Amnesty's inquiries that it is expected that the same form of violation may well occur at his trial as occurred on the last occasion. Amnesty has sought permission for ah observer to go to the trial to see how it is conducted. Permission has been refused. 
The parliamentary group had the privilege of hearing only a week ago from  Dr Peter  Reddaway, a senior lecturer in political science at the London School of Economics. He was a special guest of the group. He graduated in Russian studies from Cambridge in 1972 and did post-graduate work at both Harvard and Moscow universities. He is regarded as the leading writer on Soviet affairs both in Britain and on the Continent. He has written several books on this question. As a result of the rather expert information that he gave to the group a petition has been prepared. It reads: 
The Australian Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International last year expressed concern at the arrest of two members of the Soviet Group of Amnesty International,  Dr Andrei  Tverdokhlebov the secretary, and  Dr. Sergei  Kovalev 
We were deeply disturbed that  Dr. Kovalev  was sentenced last December to ten years imprisonment. From reports we have received the sentence was passed at a trial where many correct procedures were violated. 
We, being members of the Australian Parliament, call on you now to ensure that  Dr. Tverdokhlebov  's imminent trial is conducted openly and fairly. We ask also that permission be given for the observer from Amnesty International to attend the trial. 
We urge you also to cease the present harassment of the  Chairman  of the Soviet Group of Amnesty International,  Dr. Valentin  Turchin, and its new secretary,  Mr. Vladimar  Albrekht. 
Honourable members will be interested to know that 122 members and senators to date have signed this petition. It will be sent to  Mr Brezhnev,  and copies will go to  Mr Kosygin,  the Soviet  President  and also to the Soviet Ambassador in Australia. We are hopeful that the action of members of this House and members of the other place will bring about a change of heart and that the imminent trial will be a fair and proper trial, an open trial and one which Amnesty officials will be able to observe. We are hoping that the harassment of present Amnesty officials which we have been informed has taken place will stop as a result of our efforts. The Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International is a rare group in the world. As I have said, it comprises representatives of all political parties. 
-I thank the honourable member very much. I am pleased that he is one of our members. This group is of particular significance. I hope that by our efforts and by the publicity that will be generated from the effort we have taken in the Russian situation and other projects that we will undertake in relation to similar situations throughout the world will bring about in genuinely democratic countries and amongst their parliamentarians the same degree of interest as has been fostered in this cause in this Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Which members of the Whitlam Ministry in the House of Representatives completed Form G under section 151 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act following the elections on (a) 2 December 1972 and (b) 18 May 1974. 
Which members of the Whitlam Shadow Ministry in the House of Representatives completed Form G under section 151 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act following the elections on 13 December 1975. 
Did the Australian Labor Party, federally or in any of the States, supply a declaration under section 152 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act following the elections mentioned in parts ( 1 ) and (2). 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Having regard to earlier statements made by the Minister on a timetable for the introduction of legislation to give effect to the granting of land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory, can the Minister inform the House of the current situation? 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
What are the classifications prescribed by the Public Service Board for officers of the various Departments and other agencies who have counter contact with the public 
Which Departments or agencies require their officers, when dealing with the public across a counter, to wear an identification badge. 
Which Departments or agencies require their officers, when dealing with the public at other times, to identify themselves. 
Does the Government intend to ensure that all officers identify themselves when dealing with the public 
Which Departments or agencies require their officers to undergo some degree of relevant training before dealing with the public. 
What is the nature of the training given. 
-I rise in this debate to support the Budget. I do so with a great deal of pleasure. I am surprised that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  did not do so as well. He introduced some criticism of mining companies and large business interests but in the last 10 minutes of his speech we heard him commending the mining companies of Broken Hill and suggesting that they in particular need support by way of reduced royalties and the like to save jobs in his own locality. He highlighted the very concern that many honourable members feel in their own electorates about the need for business and business interests to be stimulated to provide employment. He also demonstrated by the way in which he commented on employment and on business activity the essential relationship between successful business, successful freedom of enterprise in Australia and an improvement in the disastrous levels of unemployment that we have and which were brought about by honourable members opposite. The honourable members to whom I am directing my comments sat in the Government that brought about that disastrous level of unemployment. I did not hear their voices raised in criticism of their own. I did not hear the pious criticism that we hear now. We did not see the unions coming out as they are now and saying the unemployment is disastrous, as they are in my own area. I wish them well in their endeavours, but they now are coming out and saying: 'We are now concerned about unemployment. Who is going to find jobs for these people who are unemployed?' Where were they before December last year? They were hiding in the woodwork. They were not prepared to come out. This is the Budget that is going to bring about economic revival in Australia. Yet here they are trying to talk it down. I am glad to say that there are so few of them that we probably will not have to hear very much of this kind of talk. As a boy I thought the old adage of a doting mother admiring her son in uniform and saying, 'There is my boy, the only one in step', applied to me. I now know that that accolade is better worn by the Whitlam Labor Opposition. The Opposition is clinging to very out-dated policies. 
Yes, clinging to a view that increased government expenditure would help us in this situation. Members of the Opposition are out of touch with the rest of the world. Of all the developed countries the United Kingdom has probably had problems very similar to our own and all the disastrous trends that we have experienced have been demonstrated in that nation. These problems are likely and were likely to cause that country tremendous problems. 
The present British Government is a socialist government. But in Britain certain steps designed to assist in stimulating economic activity have been taken. As the  Economist  records, f stg500m has been cut off the social welfare budget. That is a very significant figure. This was done by a tax fiddle which altered the period used to calculate inflation and by doing so a term with a lower rate of inflation was fortuitously chosen on which to index social service benefits. This brought about a marked decrease in social welfare expenditure. In the 1976-77 Budget stg70m was cut off hospital expenditure; stg146m off housing expenditure by increased charges; stg30m off education expenditure, including universities; f stg175 off capital expenditure by government owned industries; and stg100m off defence. In the following year it is foreshadowed that f stg 1012m will be lopped off government expenditure programs in Great Britain. These are the activities of a socialist government, a government very similar to the government which would be formed by honourable members sitting opposite. 
-I would vote for the policies of the Government in the United Kingdom because it is trying to solve the same problems as we have in Australia. We have not had to make the cuts in government expenditure that have had to be made in the United Kingdom. We have not made cuts in the social welfare area. We have not made cuts in the education area. In fact expenditure is increasing in real terms in that area. If honourable members opposite are prepared to study the situation in the United States, Germany, Canada and Japan they will see that the growth of government expenditure was shown substantially to decrease in those countries in varying degrees. This is very contrary to the view that was put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  last night and I refer honourable members to page 499 of  Hansard  if they want to check on that fact. 
Honourable members opposite and their Leader are prepared irresponsibly to ignore the world trends and the world situation, the fact that there is a need to limit the growth of government expenditure if governments are to be able to control inflation effectively. I wish to refer to an article which appeared on 1 1 May in  Feature,  a publication which all of us receive. The article detailed agreement reached between the British Government and the Trades Union Congress for an increase in average wages and salaries of about 4.5 per cent for 12 months. This figure is well below Great Britain's expected rate of inflation. I wish to quote from  Feature  because I think what this publication had to say is relevant. The article stated: 'This is the best news for many a long day for Britain and for sterling and, I believe, for the people whom we represent.' With these words,  Mr Len  Murray, general secretary of the Trades Union Congress, Britain's principal trade union body, ushered in the second chapter of Britain's voluntary incomes policy. 
This is a very significant policy in which the Trades Union Congress agreed to accept a 4.5 per cent growth in wages and salaries. A news release which we received from the British High Commission stated: 
Evidence of the continuing recovery in British manufacturing industry is provided by the latest monthly survey of industrial trends by the Confederation of British Industry. 
It is clear that by cutting government expenditure by the agreement reached on wages the situation in Britain is improving. In fact in comparisons of wage costs, productivity and so on one word describes the totality of excess rises, and that word is 'inflation'. In a speech by a noted commentator in 1975 under the heading 'Does Inflation Matter?' the following observations were made: 
Occasionally we hear that inflation does not matter much. Money incomes rise to preserve purchasing power and the Government can adjust social welfare payments to protect lower income earners, pensioners and so on. Efforts to prevent inflation, this view holds, involve unwarranted sacrifices- perhaps in respect of government programs foregone in the interests of demand management, perhaps more generally in terms of risks to growth and employment. 
That view may be acceptable at 3 per cent inflation but it is quite untenable at 13-14 per cent. Rapid and continuing inflation has serious effects on the way the economy functions and on the social fabric generally. Inflation at 13 per cent per annum would cut the purchasing power of the dollar to 69c in three years time and more than halve it by 1 980. By 2000 it would be down to 4c. A child born today will be buying his first home around the turn of the century- at 13 per cent inflation a modest house costing $20,000 today would cost close to half a million dollars. An ordinary postage stamp would cost $ 1 .70. 
I could go on but the point is clear no economy, no society, can cope with that sort of change, even for a few years, without very severe side-effects. No responsible government will allow this sort of situation to emerge. It is for this fundamental reason that inflation in Australia will not be allowed to continue at anything like its present rate. 
Those comments were made in May 1974 by a former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. They were made by a responsible gentleman, a man who felt about these matters keenly and a man who lost his position and lost the respect of his colleagues. I believe that his words demonstrate the sort of havoc that is likely to emerge if honourable members opposite continue to advocate irresponsibly increased government expenditure. 
I would like to also quote a non-parliamentary critic who speaks with a forked tongue and who has criticised this Budget in public forums. He holds a responsible position as a member of the Reserve Bank Board and had this to say: 
A firm continuation of the thrust of policy against inflation continues to be necessary to sustain the tentatively emerging indications of economic improvement For the community to countenance the persistence of inflation would be to hinder the growth of economic activity and prejudice national living standards. 
AH honourable members know from the number of times this matter has been referred to that  Mr Hawke  is a member of the board of the Reserve Bank. He is also  president  of the Australian Labor Party and  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. That gentleman made those statements as a member of the Reserve Bank Board. But he makes different statements when he goes out on to the public forum. I believe that the Whitlam-led Opposition in trying to talk down economic recovery is the most irresponsible of all the critics. Members of the Opposition have spoken about unemployment in an attempt to intimidate people in jobs and thereby limit consumer recovery. They incite employees to strike, to withdraw their labour and to undermine productivity. They allege that irresponsible government spending which brought about the demise of their own Government can now be responsibly pursued. There is no doubt that extravagant wage demands, unbridled government expenditure in non productive areas, continued industrial action and sabotage will handicap this Government and any government. Frankly, in my view this is a sinister use of the special position members occupy in this Parliament. I believe that all this negative and disruptive talk by the Opposition must be pointed out with the utmost clarity. 
Let us examine some of the other important issues. Firstly, let me talk about excessive government expenditure. From the speech of the Leader of the Opposition, through the calls of his colleagues, one thing is clear. Labor parliamentarians lack the ability to make choices; they cannot accord priorities; everything that government can do successfully must be done overnight. One has to look only at the emphasis in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition last night to see this demonstrated. He spoke of growth centres, social security, women, health, migrants, farmers, defence, urban and regional development. They are not areas in which government programs have been necessarily decimated, but they are areas in which Labor asks us to spend more. My experience is that in every area of government more money can be spent. I have a long list. It includes a government centre in Parramatta, National Estate programs, overseas aid, area improvement. Responsibly, I do not believe I can ask for more. I am surprised that members opposite can do so. They are the choices that Labor in office could not make and in opposition is still unwilling to make. The spendthrift has a social conscience, but he is not a responsible parliamentarian when he advocates those courses. The United Kingdom experience has shown the importance, I believe, of reining in government expenditure. 
Wage costs and productivity are of national importance. Our labour costs have approached the highest in the world. Our competitors in manufacturing industries are achieving a significant reduction in the rate of wage increases in their homelands. Wage indexation, as implemented by the Full Bench of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, achieves in part the objectives agreed to by unions and government in the United Kingdom. The free-wheeling and collective bargaining that the ACTU is now seeking to bring in outside the wage-fixing system will certainly further undermine our national productivity capacity. During the recess I became very much aware of the inability of export manufacturing business in my electorate of Parramatta to compete on world markets. The unholy alliance between local manufacturers who can seek additional tariff protection and unions who want to use such protection for unreasonable wage demands is significant. It ignores the plight of those employees and manufacturers who have no tariff support available. Obviously the only long term solution is to contain costs and to restore productivity. We are not only losing to labour intensive countries but we are also losing our markets in Australia to the United States, New Zealand and Europe, each of which country suffers a transport cost before being able to land its product on our shores. 
Productivity is sabotaged most effectively, in my view, by the publicity seekers, the union anarchists. Take  Mr Baird,  an organiser for the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in the shipbuilding industry, who told us today that a strike was needed to draw attention to the plight of his industry. If it were not so tragic, one would laugh. I find such comments and that attitude sinister. Quite frankly, the shipbuilding industry, in my view, has been undermined by this technique. I would be more impressed by the representative of the AMWU if he arranged a work-in. I suggested to some teachers in my electorate not so long ago that I would be impressed if they arranged a teach-in. It would have been rather easy and would have gained far more publicity for those who were prepared to do it, if that was their objective If I wanted to improve the conditions of people in my industry I think I would invite members to work a little longer, a little harder, perhaps sit in their offices until 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. and ask some of the gentlemen of the Press to join us. I think that would demonstrate our concern and our desire to improve our national productivity far more than a strike. This is not a laughing matter. I speak with great sincerity. I wrote to teachers in my electorate not so long ago. They said that they intended to strike because the seats in the grounds were rotting. I said: 'How about a teach-in? Write to the parents and invite them to leave the children there till 6 p.m. so you can give them a bit more tuition. Everybody will be attracted to your cause and everybody will be on side'. Certainly it would have increased productivity capacity. 
I now point out the major thrust in the Budget. It demonstrates that this Party has a social conscience. Many honourable members have detailed the long list- family allowances, personal income tax indexation, handicapped persons' allowances, the new test for pension eligibility, the experiment with a new housing allowance voucher system, the expansion of health programs, community health, hospitals and so on. Education expenditure is up in real terms. Much has been said about the activity in the business area. I would like to make some points about the alleged handouts to big business. There are only 3 principal factors in the Budget which in any way assist business, and they are: inflation accounting for stock, eased distribution requirements for private companies and reforms in the petroleum and coal industries. Inflation accounting for stock has been introduced after we have already introduced indexation for personal income tax and after we have already indexed pensions. We are saying that after we have indexed almost everything else we are prepared to index this essential part of business activity which undermines its very essence. Honourable members should refer to the Mathews Committee report and to the Sondilands committee of inquiry in the United Kingdom which demonstrate those matters. The eased distribution requirements for private companies assist only small companies, but they assist those companies to use for capital generation money which they have already earned. By reducing by 10 per cent the amount which companies must distribute we have allowed for capital expansion. Businesses will be able to succeed and to resist takeover by public companies and multi-national companies that we so often hear criticised. The reforms in the petroleum and coal industries are only the removal of levies on top of other taxes which have been shown to undermine their position in business, to enable companies to continue production. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has the slow-down in spending provided for in this year's Budget reduced services available to members of Parliament? Has it led to a shortage of typewriters and office equipment available for the use of members. If so, will the Treasurer look into the position? 
It is indeed a pleasure to be able to follow my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  because he at least has made an endeavour in the debate, quite contrary to his colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  to discuss the matter of public importance that has been raised by the Australian Labor Party. 
-I do not believe so, and I intend to show that. The matter of public importance that has been listed for discussion is the failure of the Government to honour its promises and to fulfil its obligations to the Aboriginal people. All I heard from the honourable member for Hughes- he can correct me if he thinks I am wrong- was a continuous discussion about areas in which he thought expenditure had been cut by this Government. I submit that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has adequately refuted his allegations by going through in detail the areas of expenditure and making it abundantly clear that when he talked in percentage terms his percentages were totally unrelated to the figures that were presented in the Budget documents. 
The honourable member for Wills at least endeavoured to discuss the problems in Aboriginal affairs- the problems of delivering programs to a people who are diverse and whose problems are diverse problems which require many methods of attack if we are to be able to solve them. I do not think anybody would suggest that the problems are not diverse; nor would anybody suggest that there ought not to be a diversity of programs designed to overcome them. The problem is that we have seen in the past, and more recently during the term of our predecessors in office, only one method of attack. In all instances the provision of funds was the method adopted by the Government to overcome the problems. It is my view and the view of the Government that the provision of funds alone will not solve the problems that Aboriginal communities face. Differences arise from the very nature of the communities in which Aborigines live. If they are traditional communities, it is quite likely that the injection of more and more money will only exacerbate the problems that already exist. The honourable member for Hughes suggested in the discussion of unemployment that we ought to use the term 'Aboriginal work force'. I can think of no more inappropriate term to describe traditional Aboriginal communities. They are not an Aboriginal work force that we can look to in the traditional way in providing traditional jobs, setting up a factory or injecting some sort of program to try to lift them into a European-type culture in the area in which they have lived in the past and had their own traditional values. Programs which are designed to bring these sorts of advances to the Aboriginal communities will not meet their needs. Anybody who suggests that they will is being totally naive. 
What the Government has set about to do is to appraise Aboriginal programs, to look at the nature of housing programs that have been developed, to look at the jobs that have been provided in the form of special work programs, particularly in Aboriginal areas, and to assess whether they are really the sorts of programs that are wanted or required and to assess whether they are the programs that the people themselves, given a choice and not believing that they are doing what we want them to do, would themselves accept and want and pursue. It is my view that in many cases they would not want the programs that have been pursued during the last 3 years. Clearly, if we go on funding the programs we have now in the same way as they are now, we will find that we are perpetuating the mistakes of our opponents. Clearly, in my view, we have to make the decision to appraise now. If one reads the statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the position will be seen in clearer context. The Treasurer, in his statement dealing with Aboriginal affairs, made it clear that in the light of the reviews about which I have been speaking and about which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  spoke, additional funds will be provided. The Prime Minister, in answer to questions from honourable members opposite, has made it clear that additional funds will be provided when the reviews have been completed. Quite clearly, after the reviews have taken place, funds can be made available. But if we make decisions to allocate funds in a Budget context in the way they have been allocated before, those funds will be committed in a direction which, having regard to the reviews which are taking place, may be totally inadequate and be shown to be so. 
Great play has been made on the telegram. Of course, the telegram was significant. It went to the Aboriginal people. It is also significant that there is a policy document. When one looks at the terms of the matter we are discussing todaythe failure of the Government to honour its promises- one must look at the policy document and its overall thrust and then look at what the Government is doing. If the honourable member for Wills and the honourable member for 
Hughes do not have a copy of the policy document, I will make one available to them. The major thrust in the new initiatives set out in that document relate to Aboriginal self-management and Aboriginal land rights. In pursuit of these policy objectives 2 Bills have been introduced by the Government. They are items 1 1 and 12 on the notice paper. They are the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill 1976 and the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976. 
The policy document refers to Aboriginal selfsufficiency and also the method of funding. But those are secondary areas, and if one talks to Aboriginal people one finds that the real thrust, particularly in the traditional areas, is in relation to land rights- the relationship that Aboriginal people have to their land, identification with their land, and their wish to have access to it. The willingness of this Government to pursue that objective gives the lie to the suggestion that there is a failure on the part of the Government to honour its promises and a failure to fulfil its obligations to the Aboriginal people. It is my view that the Government is proceeding as quickly and as responsibly as it can, and as would be expected in this term of the Parliament, to pursue those policy objectives. 
Reference was made to Aboriginal unemployment, and especially to the special works projects and the study made by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I was a member of that Committee of the last Parliament and assisted in the preparation of the report and the recommendations. I supported those recommendations in the context in which they were made. It ought to be noted that the study was a study of northern New South Wales communities, particularly of the fringe dwellers of the New South Wales country towns. The people there are not traditional Aborigines. In many cases they are just as capable of being integrated into a white community as any one of us would be if we were socially deprived in the communities in which we lived. It was clear to the Committee, which considered the sorts of programs that could give the Aboriginal people in those communities drive and initiative to improve their own lot, that special works projects would be a very suitable medium. But one could very well have doubts about the suitability of special works projects in traditional Aboriginal communities, particularly with the movement to outstations and the willingness of communities to forsake the form of traditional European life which has been established in the reserves and settlements in the Northern Territory. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do not always look forward to the pleasure of being able to follow the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  Invariably, I have the opportunity to hear his rousing comments following my own. Tonight he has raised the spectre, I suppose in the prospect that he may be able to get some local Press coverage, concerning the rather ill-informed allegations which he has made, in the expectation that he may be able to assist a candidate to succeed my late father at a by-election which is to be held. I say, with all respect to him, that the efforts were quite undeserving of the sort of attention which he gave them. He omitted to mention that one of the options, as I understand it, is that the State Government in conjunction with the Federal Government is being asked to consider that the existing facilities at the existing airport be maintained and developed as they are. Of course, that is one of the options which must be considered in any examination of this question. 
The honourable member neglected to say that when his Party was in office its effort was to nominate one site, not to discuss that with anybody and not to consider the environmental implications but simply to say to the district which the honourable member is now seeking to defend: 'You shall have it'. I recall the words of his Leader, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  at Castle Hill when he was visiting the district. He stated: 'You will get Galston'. 
-One can understand the concern of the honourable member that one might raise these matters because they are well recalled. In this district, in my district and even in the community of the honourable member- he knows this from the extent of the swing against him at recent elections- the feeling of the people was that they were not prepared to take that sort of treatment without consideration of all the implications and without discussions with the State Government which is required to consider all the ramifications which must be associated with any airport development in any area. Of course, a State government must be involved and must be asked whether it can provide roadworks and associated facilities and be involved in the planning. When the Labor Party was in office it was not prepared to consult the State Government on these matters which I think were of the utmost importance and which were deserving of discussion with the State Government. The honourable member ignores all these sorts of comments. Tonight he tries to put up a smokescreen in a poor attempt to support a candidate who has no prospect of success at the by-election which is to be held on Saturday. 
I speak with a great deal of confidence when I say to the House that the Liberal Party candidate, Fred Caterson, is certainly a highly regarded and excellent candidate. He is a hardworking man and will achieve undoubted success at the by-election. I know that he will be a worthy successor to my father. Having regard to the longstanding association that he and my late father had I know that he will serve that district and give it the same sort of service that it had over the 14 years that my father represented it in the State Parliament. On matters which affect that district Fred Caterson will be as outspoken as are the honourable member for Mitchell and myself when we defend our areas. It will be quite the converse of the attitude adopted by the honourable member for Chifley when his Party was in government. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I bring up the Committee's report on alcohol problems of Aboriginals- Northern Territory aspects. A dissenting report signed by 3 members of the Committee is included with the main report. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provide that fines and penalties imposed by unions by reason of the fact that a man works in accordance with his award are an offence? Has the Industrial Court, in the appeal of the Federated Moulders (Metal) Union of Australia and Aylen, recently upheld a decision of a South Australian local court that union imposed fines for non-attendance at stop-work meetings during normal working hours were illegal because of Section 188 of the Act? Is this not an important case in upholding the right of an individual employee to assert his right to work free from coercion? Would the Minister encourage union members to look to their legal rights  vis a vis  extremist union leadership? 
-It is disappointing to follow a speech which in my view talked up an issue far more than was ever warranted. It was a most pitiful display and, I regret, designed very much to appeal to people purely on an emotional issue and to make it appear that other honourable members in this place have no concern for people of ethnic origin. This is from the same man who I am reminded once used the term to describe one of his colleagues in this place, simply because of his ethnic origin- 'Afghan camel driver'. 
In view of his sensitivity I am certainly prepared to do that. 
-Most certainly. I do not wish to drag this out. I believe the point that I made before I made the remark is correct, namely that this issue is being talked up in a way that is totally unbecoming. We know that arrangements have been made by the Government. We know that it is a rational approach and that this is something the ethnic communities themselves want. It is an approach that they have supportedto have access - 
. . . to the ABC. It is technical - 
-The point I make is that these ethnic groups have made their position public through their own statements that we have all seen. They have made the point that they support the merger with the ABC to give them access to its special resources and equipment and to give them the advantages that that organisation through its long experience in the field will be able to offer. I do not wish to say anything more about that issue because I want to talk about several other matters that are within the responsibility of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
The Minister has responsibility for 3 statutory corporations. Honourable members will be aware that the Minister is unique in that a very large number of employees who are within the ambit of his ministerial responsibility are not directly responsible to him. Rather, we have established separate statutory corporations to assume that responsibility. These corporations are responsible directly to the Parliament. Fairly recently we established the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. We also have the various statutory broadcasting corporations. One of those corporations to which I propose to refer specifically later on in my address is the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In the postal area we have seen, notwithstanding the change and the establishment of a statutory corporation, the continued blackmail by monopoly power in the work force of the statutory corporations of government. One of the most disappointing things to me- and I expressed this view when the corporations were established- is that the views of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were not followed when he suggested very seriously as a Minister of the Crown at the time that the security of tenure offered to employees of government ought to be examined in the development of statutory corporations. We see today the blackmail that is being exerted by means of the monopoly power of the trade unions over the Postal Commission through the unions being able to hold up the mails of the country. This sort of behaviour is not unique to this Government. As I look through my files I find that this was something that troubled the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he was Postmaster-General in the previous Government. I refer to the time when the honourable member endeavoured to make the Post Office as it then was, more efficient by the development of regional and decentralised sorting services throughout the metropolitan area. We saw the continual tie-up of mail and the attempt to use monopoly power by those who work in a particular situation where they have their own capacity to hold up an essential national service. These people work for a national organisation against which nobody else is able to compete. 
I want to draw to the attention of honourable members an advertisement that appeared in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  The advertisement suggests that the New South Wales branch of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union has brought about substantial delays in the mails in Sydney. I want to support the Minister and the Commission in the action they have taken to endeavour to get the mails moving. I wish to draw to people's attention that the reason for this strike is not that people are being dismissed but rather that the employees believe that not enough people are employed to make their load easier. That is the position, notwithstanding the substantial fall-off that we have seen in the amount of mail being processed. There have already been some offers to these people in terms of conciliation in which the Commission has offered to employ some additional staff but not the numbers that the employees want. This was not an unreasonable approach, but still the employees have rejected it. 
I cannot speak in such glowing terms about the second corporation- the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Again this is a monopoly organisation because nobody else can operate in competition with it. During the time of the previous Government there was some competition from the red phones. However, that competition was eliminated. However, I want to draw the Minister's attention to the difficulties faced by people who live in the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne in respect to the replacement of a most convenient buying guide, which was about 1  i  inches thick and covered the whole metropolitan area of Sydney, by 4 buying guides, one of which relates to my own western region of Sydney. The buying guide for each region is almost as thick as the original one. The reason for the separate publications is that the Telecommunications Commission, through its advertising organisation, has been able to obtain a great deal more money, I dare say, from advertisements which appear in these fancy volumes each of which, as I have said, is almost as big as the volume that used to serve the whole metropolitan area. This change has brought about a great deal of criticism which I believe is justified. The Minister has indicated in correspondence to me that the matter is being reviewed. I do not think this is good enough. I believe that the Minister has to make a firm announcement that we are going to get rid of this multiplicity of volumes as quickly as possible. 
In the time that is left to me I want to say something about the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I urge the Minister, after his discussions of reports that I understand are available to the Government, to see that one organisation is responsible for all standards in relation to all broadcasting. I believe very strongly that the standards imposed on commercial organisations ought to be the same standards as those that apply to a government-run organisation. 
I want to take up first of all the remarks made about the Constitutional Convention. There is a certain amount of piety about the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he approaches this matter and I think it is quite unbecoming in this important debate. While he says that it is desirable that we have a rational discussion on this subject, he immediately postures a position for himself and his colleagues which presupposes that the position they took last November was absolutely correct and that we ought to ratify it now. That is what he is saying. I do not accept that for one minute, nor would any honourable member on this side of the chamber. The honourable member was talking about having a rational discussion. I will enter into a rational discussion about the matter, but let us not try to enter into a rational discussion and make it appear pious which is how it would be. Honourable members opposite are the ones who want a rational discussion, but they are immediately presupposing that their position is absolute and correct. They are forgetting the judgment of the people of Australia at the ballot box. 
-Honourable members opposite were judged on all the issues. Year after year they talk in this place about mandates on a whole range of issues which probably have never even been put. If the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith were to tell me that the withholding of Supply was not mentioned at the Australian Labor Party meetings during the last election campaign perhaps I would take some notice of him. But the fact of the matter is that the only issue ever mentioned at the Labor Party's meetings and rallies was the issue of the withholding of Supply. Labor supporters spoke about it. They argued about it. They put it up as the issue. That is all they talked about and they were judged on that issue. The honourable member says piously that we should enter into some rational discussion on the basis that we automatically and as a whole accept his position, assume that it is right and work from there . There will be no rational discussion until Opposition members are prepared to acknowledge that there are other points of view. If we are to arrive at a position where we cannot be put in a factual state where there is no money available, there are other means by which that can be achieved. We can achieve it by noting the way in which our Constitution was structured and its very purpose of holding together a community which has quite diverse interests. The reality is that if we are to hold this country together, and if we are to be able to get rid of the continual discussion we hear from groups in some parts of Australia of secession, we can do so only so long as there is a position in the Constitution which guarantees the participation of these groups in the Commonwealth. That is what the honourable member wants to forget, to pass over, when he says that we ought to have some sort of referendum  de novo  which will resolve the matter. He is assuming that the great bulk of people in New South Wales and Victoria can out-vote the rest of Australia on putting in a form of Constitution which will entrench the interests of the people he and I represent. I find that difficult to take and difficult to argue. The honourable member will not get any agreement on the propositions he puts forward if they are based on that proposition. 
I want to enter into a rational discussion but I do not accept your point of view as the starting point. I would like to deal with the important subject of legal aid. I compliment the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  on the fact that additional funds have been made available for legal aid this year. I compliment him on his endeavours to get the States to discuss a rational legal aid program for the whole of Australia. I do not accept the proposition advanced by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that we ought to use our money to obtain control of the legal aid that the States offer already. In legal aid debates previously in this chamber I pointed out the multiplicity of aid programs in my own State of New South Wales. Perhaps it is important to mention them again so that people will understand the breadth and the number of organisations one can approach for legal aid. You can go to the Law Society of New South Wales which has a number of programs. You can go to the Public Solicitor. You can go to the Courts of Petty Sessions. There are certain referral centres. There is the New South Wales Commissioner for Legal Aid Services who offers legal assistance. The number of organisations offering legal advice is so diverse, the number of offices you can go to for legal advice is so numerous, that it is little wonder that people do not know where they are going, that they do not know where to look and have to shop around before finding that they probably cannot get any aid at all. It is because there is this multiplicity of organisations and structures, each of which has to be supported and maintained, that legal aid becomes so expensive. 
I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members the limited number of Australian Legal Aid Offices that now exist, with the amount of money we are allocating, in comparison with the large number of facilities already existing, particularly in New South Wales. Honourable members should look at a question on notice asked by  Senator Coleman  which appears a page 1 1 8 1 of the Senate  Hansard  of 1 3 October. In reply to that question,  Senator Durack,  representing the Attorney-General, said that in New South Wales there were legal aid offices in Sydney, Bankstown, Blacktown, 
Fairfield, Leichhardt, Newcastle, Ryde, Tamworth and Wollongong. Honourable members would know, if they looked at the front page of the telephone directory, how many Courts of Petty Sessions there are where a qualified legal aid officer in the form of the  Clerk  of Petty Sessions is available to assist people. If one adds to that the officers of the Public Solicitor and each of the public authorities I have mentioned, the Law Society and so on, and each of the solicitors who is entitled to offer advice and then seek assistance from the Law Society scheme, one appreciates the width of that service and how narrow is the service that we offer in comparison. 
The legal aid we offer is sectional. If one presupposes that in some way it is better it means that some people are entitled to first class legal aid because they come within a particular class of persons- they might be public servants, migrants, pensioners and so on- and others get second class legal aid. I am not pre-supposing that the State offers second class assistance but on the assumption that one system is first class and the other is second class the balance of the people have access only to that second class aid that is available. The importance of legal aid cannot be underestimated.  Vinson  v.  Hornet  in 47 ALJ records the importance of legal assistance in influencing the outcome of proceedings. 
In this debate I would like to emphasise the importance of getting the co-operation of the States and the States entering into meaningful negotiations with the Attorney so that we can rationalise the complex legal aid systems we have at the moment because they are not helping Australia and they are not helping the people who are deserving of that aid. Secondly, I would like to compliment the Attorney on moving to establish the Family Law Council and in seeking advice on the Family Law Act. I believe that already there are good reasons for the Family Law Act to be reviewed. Finally, I would like to direct the attention of the Attorney to an article by D. C. Pearce on the privileges committees of the Australian Parliament which appeared in the Federal Law Review. I ask him to take careful note of that article and the very well reasoned suggestions the author makes that there ought to be an Act of Parliament setting out the Parliament's privileges and providing for an independent method of assessing when there has been a breach of privilege. 
-There is a great willingness by members on both sides of the House to come to grips with this important problem that the Aboriginal people have. I think there is a recognition that the sins of the past are now being visited upon us as a generation. There is a general view that a party which has been in government for a short period of time cannot be blamed for the problems that have beset a people for generations. There is a general recognition in the House that some of the things done by the former Government have had a considerable beneficial effect in coping with Aboriginal health problems. Some of us, perhaps only on this side of the House, might be prepared to say also that because some of the programs were not sufficiently well thought out and because some of the spending was so generous there could have been a detrimental effect upon the Aboriginal people and their health simply because of the way in which the moneys were made available. 
The points at issue and mentioned by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  are twofold They are these: Firstly, is there a commitment on the part of this Government to deal with the elimination of these diseases and health problems from the Aboriginal community? I would say, as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has said, that there is a commitment absolutely and in every respect to deal with Aboriginal health problems. The second point relates to the manner in which the Parliament ought to involve itself in these matters. We have already heard that there is a committee of the Parliament charged especially to look into matters relating to Aboriginal people. The question arises whether we need an additional com- .mittee of the Parliament to examine one aspect of the problems that face our Aboriginal community. It is my view that it would be most undesirable to have a further committee to look selectively at one aspect. 
While the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which I chair at this time has a responsibility and a reference from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to examine alcohol problems faced by the Aboriginal race, it does not look at those problems in isolation. The Committee recognises the wide range of matters that affect Aboriginal health and exacerbate the drinking problem. It recognises the importance of housing, the importance of living conditions, the importance of education, the importance of good health. It recognises also that in many cases where good housing, employment and so on have been provided the problems brought about by alcohol have not been overcome. The Committee, which is a nonparty committee, has considered this situation at length and only a matter of weeks ago brought into the House an urgent report entitled  Alcohol 

 Aspects. In the opening paragraph the Committee said- I will read it again because I and the members of the Committee consider this matter to be of the utmost importance: 
Alcohol is the greatest present threat to the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory and unless strong immediate action is taken they could destroy themselves. 
The Committee did not consider these matters in isolation. It went to Alice Springs, to Darwin, to outlying remote Aboriginal communities. It saw all of the matters about which the honourable member for Fremantle has spoken. It saw many of the people to whom he referred. The Committee has highlighted the effect of alcohol in tribal communities and the way in which it breaks down their way of life and their ability to cope with the problems which come simply from the pressures that we put on them. It has recommended certain action, and the Minister has said that consideration of it will be undertaken with the utmost expedition. But this is not the first inquiry of the Parliament and health has not been mentioned only by our Committee at this time. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the last Parliament examined Aboriginal health in the south-west of Western Australia and dealt with many of these matters. Each of the diseases to which the honourable member for Fremantle has referred were mentioned, in addition to some others, including tuberculosis, gastro-enteritis and respiratory problems from which these people suffer. It referred also to the need to improve infant and child nutrition. It noted that government programs were designed to achieve this. 
There is a further committee report. The Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders presented a report entitled  The Environmental Conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the Preservation of their Sacred Sites.  The health and physical environment problems of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders were considered in depth- at page 79 of the report. Each of the problems mentioned were covered in some detail. The honourable member for Fremantle referred in passing to this report also. 
A great deal of consideration has been given to this matter by the Parliament. As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I know what has been done in this area. I refer the honourable member for Fremantle to the  Hansard  report of the Committee's meeting in Derby on Friday, 1 
October, 1976. That report is now a public document and I understand is available in the Parliamentary Library. Evidence was given by  Dr Spargo,  who is a regional health officer for the West Australian Government. He spoke of the problems of alcohol and its relationship to health. I direct the honourable member's attention to the questioning by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  about the other health problems, such as venereal disease, that are important. I can assure the honourable member that health and health problems are receiving the utmost attention in the inquiry that we are conducting at the moment. We believe that our report on alcohol problems has to be considered in conjunction with the health of the people themselves and the effect that alcohol perhaps has in bringing about such conditions. This is a very vexed problem and is not one that is capable of easy solutions. 
May I mention some of the problems. If we encourage Aboriginal people to move away from European centres of population and into outstations, how are we to provide the sophisticated health care that will enable us to control the situation generally? How are we to provide that sophisticated health care in fringe camps when people are moving around? How are we to prevent people from moving around from one place to another when they believe that if someone has died in a particular location they must move their home? How are we to overcome the neglect of children- the problem of children not being fed because their parents are drinking extensively, so much so that they cannot provide the care that is needed? These problems are real and the solutions are not easily provided. There is no doubt that this Government and the former Government had these problems very much in mind. The efforts of our Committee are centred upon coping with them. I believe that our Committee could sufficiently widen the scope of its current inquiry to ensure that these aspects are covered in greater detail. I think it is best that we consider these problems in conjunction with our present inquiry which, as the  Hansard  record of the Committee shows, is taking us around Australia. I submit also that such a course would save a considerable amount of taxpayers' money as it would avoid unnecessary duplication. 
-Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen reports that the New South Wales Premier would like to end State control of aspects of industrial law? Did the Premier, in discussions with the Minister, make this offer before initiating the suggestion in a dramatic Press release? How do these comments square with the New South Wales Labor Government's stated intention to go it alone in legislating to compel companies to make redundancy payments before retrenching employees? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has he seen the latest demonstration on the front lawns of Parliament House? Is this demonstration in keeping with his own views on giving Canberra greater colour and character? Is there any limit now to the form that demonstrations might take? 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  After his first token political remarks he got down to the business of talking about the Bill and ite purpose. I think he demonstrated his abiding interest in Aboriginal affairs. I was very touched by his kind references to George III, as undoubtedly all honourable members would have been. We in Parramatta have an abiding interest in George 
III, the last king of the United States and the first king of Parramatta. 
It is a significant Bill to which we are addressing ourselves today. I want to take up some of the remarks of the honourable members who have spoken before me. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  mentioned a parliamentary committee and the matters which that committee would examine and report upon to the Parliament. He mentioned the date by which the committee would have to report. For the time being I have the pleasure of chairing the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. I understand that it is recommended that the committee will be a joint committee comprising the 8 members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and 6 members from the Senate, chosen in equal numbers from the Government and the Opposition. Knowing the quality of the members who serve on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I am pleased that they will have an opportunity to participate in this important area. 
-I do not think it is appropriate that I go through the names at this point. Two of the members have spoken before me in this debate. When I touch on some of their more political remarks I trust that they will not think it unkind of me. They have deigned to treat this important debate as an opportunity for political points scoring. I think that was unfortunate. I think that in the area of Aboriginal affairs, in which there has emerged in essence a bipartisan approach, an attempt to divide the nation or to divide parties against parties, persons against persons and Aborigines against Aborigines, is not a very good ploy and is quite unbecoming. 
I regret very much that the honourable member for Wills defended  Mr Eames,  a gentleman whom I have met and who, I must say with some respect to him, is a very diligent person in his examination of legal matters. But I must say that I found him to be one who was perhaps a little too earnest. He has obviously demonstrated this by his capacity to delve into the political area and get away from the legal area in which he has a special responsibility. It is most unfortunate for him to be prepared to make comments about parliamentarians who have proper interests to protect and to pursue. They represent a total electorate of Aboriginal people as well as other people in the Northern Territory. He criticised them simply for putting the views of the total community whom they represent. 
However, it was the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who introduced the most invective into this debate. I consider that most unfortunate. He point scored more so than anybody else, if I can say that about what he had to say. He attempted to put the view that the Australian Labor Party Bill was the one which had adopted almost in entirety the Woodward recommendations. I have seen papers prepared. I have looked at the Woodward report. I have looked at the Labor Party Bill and at our Bill. Each of them differs significantly. The large number of areas that must be covered cannot be covered without diverging to some degree. Honourable members have only to look at the comparative paper- the one that I have in my hand at this time- to appreciate that whilst  Mr Justice  Woodward made certain recommendations, when we come to put them into a legal document they cannot always be followed in their entirety. But, I think in terms of the good intentions that we have displayed and the interests that we have in this question, we have gone as close as we reasonably could be expected to go in putting the general recommendations into a legislative form. It is totally unfair for honourable members opposite to say that the Opposition is relying upon the Woodward report, that the Government is not and that in some way we have been deficient. 
-It is certainly unfair. It is a dishonest approach. The honourable member for Hughes spoke of a $ 1 m advertising campaign by the mining industry and said that it was designed to undermine the purpose of the Bill. He then suggested that the Opposition certainly was not influenced by that and that a number of honourable senators had taken a certain approach in relation to the mining veto. But he then ignored the fact that the Government intends to give to the Parliament the final decision. I think all these suggestions are certainly taking this matter to its extreme. The honourable member forgets the very fundamental basis of our Bill, the recommendations and the amendments that have been proposed, amendments which I entirely support. He endeavours to point score on those in a quite dishonest way. In my view, he showed a lack of preparation because information was available to him some week ago to enable him to see the direction in which the Government was moving in relation to some of these matters that we have discussed already. He ignored the importance of consultation, something which I consider is of the utmost importance. He relied upon a quotation from the Woodward report to denigrate the rights of traditional owners and to say that in some way the rights and claims of people who had moved away from their traditional lands- very often people who may be only of part Aboriginal blood and living in fringe areas- were somehow more important and more significant. I have looked in vain for a generalisation in the Woodward report that would substantiate that claim. I cannot find it. What I do find is that Woodward divided up the recommendations. He discussed the traditional areas- the Aboriginal reserves. That is the first area in which he makes major recommendations. Honourable members have only to look at clause 144.2 of the report to see this. He talks in the summary of the recommendations about traditional lands. He deals with the land holding corporations, which should be called land trusts, and says that they should hold land for the benefit of all those having traditional interests in or rights over it. He acknowledges the importance of traditional land interests.I think he elevates the matter to that important place by making it the first area of Aboriginal lands with which he deals. He then goes on to deal with other significant areas- land claimed by Aborigines, including vacant Crown land, and pastoral leases. Finally, he makes reference to the city and town dwellers. In that, he deals with the fringe dwelling situation. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was addressing some remarks to one of the 3 Bills being debated cognately, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I want to say in response to the remarks by honourable members opposite that history will record that it was the Liberal and National Country Parties which pursued and brought to finality land rights for Aborigines, that it was a government of our persuasion which commissioned the Woodward report, and that it is a government of our persuasion which brought in this legislation that was enacted into law. 
-It is certainly not an oversimplification when we look at the nature of the remarks passed earlier in the debate. I am surprised to hear the honourable member, who has joined us now for the first time in the discussion on this important legislation, interjecting so early. The fact is that these are the parties which brought in the initial report upon which this legislation is based, and these are the parties which will have carried into the law of the land Aboriginal land rights, and that ought to be remembered. 
The whole commitment which is embodied in the 3 Bills that we are debating- the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill and the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill- is designed to advantage Aboriginal people. The Bills demonstrate our commitment to that cause. The Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill provides a framework to give support to Aboriginal people through government programs. It is substantially the same as the Bill that was previously introduced but it removes a great deal of the complexity and legal difficulties that Aboriginal bodies have experienced in being incorporated and in being in a form able to receive government assistance. When one looks at the nature of legislation that operates in the States and provides for incorporation in various forms one appreciates the need for a more uniform and simplified structure through which moneys can be got to those people. The States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill is the vehicle through which the additional funds which were promised in the Budget and in respect of which announcements were made subsequently are to be made available for specific programs in housing and other areas. These are important Bills. 
In my Party's policy statement a clear commitment was given to Aboriginal land rights, and those who endeavour to say that we lack that commitment need only look at the document. It makes clear and emphasises something which I see as important and which  Mr Justice  Woodward saw as important, and that is a recognition of a fundamental principle to Aboriginestheir sense of Aboriginality was their affinity with land. This is a very important aspect. To me it is the most important aspect because I believe that people need a purpose to do and to achieve, and they will fulfil that purpose only if they are able to see their achievements and believe that what they are doing and what they have is of right. They will not fulfil it if they feel that something is a gift, something given to them to make them feel comfortable and make it easy for them. By way of example one need only look at the nature of probate and inherited wealth and the way it ultimately is frittered away by people who lack the purpose of those who earned it. It is much the same with land rights. If Aborigines know they have land as of right they will feel that special affinity with it. If land is given to them because we feel that it is nice for them to have land, they probably will not have that sense of purpose. It certainly will not help overcome some of the basic problems and deprivations which we know exist among Aborigines in certain circumstances. The policy document is one that I would commend to people to read because it recognises the importance of Aborigines gaining their inalienable title to land. 
I also wanted to take honourable members through some of the comments of  Mr Justice  Woodward in relation to land because I believe there has been some harm done by those who suggested that he did not place a great deal of significance on the Aboriginal concept of land ownership and the traditional forms of land ownership.  Mr Justice  Woodward said: 
The land owning dan is merely a group of people who share the same links with the same land. 
These clans have close spiritual associations with particular tracts of land. Their religion or mythology teaches them that particular areas were given to them, or claimed on their behalf, by their spirit ancestors in the Dreamtime . . . 
The spiritual connection between a clan and its land involves both rights and duties. The rights are to the unrestricted use of its natural products; the duties are . . . to tend the land by the performance of ritual dances, songs and ceremonies at the proper times and places . . .  the connection of the Aborigines with their land is timeless, commencing before birth and continuing after death ...  his connection with it is not broken by the fact he may have lived away from it for many years 
 I have so far come across no case in which ownership of land has been disputed among full blooded Aborigines. 
Those remarks are important. They make clear the importance of traditional owners in the structure of these Bills, the importance of land rights to Aborigines and the importance of giving them a purpose in life and an understanding of living and achieving. I am pleased that in this Bill emphasis is placed upon traditional ownership. I want to comment on a number of points in relation to clauses in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. Clause 7 (6), which deals with the constitution of Aboriginal land trusts, emphasises that all members of a land trust shall be Aborigines living in the area of the land council in the area of which the land of the land trust is situated. It makes it clear that those people must have that association, that they must be people who live in relation to that land within the area for which the trust is established. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has mentioned an amendment which will give those traditional owners rights in relation to that land that they may not have enjoyed before. This has come out of the important discussions and consultations and further strengthens the Bill in respect of traditional ownership. Clause 22 which deals whith land councils is equally important. With the proposed amendment it will say, in part, that the functions of a land council are: to ascertain and express the wishes and the opinions of Aboriginals living in the area of the Land Council as to the management of Aboriginal land in that area and as to appropriate legislation concerning that land. 
That provision is also important in relation to traditional Aborigines. In clause 47 ( 1 ) (a) (i) we see much the same point made. Clause 47 ( 1 ) states, in part: 
The functions of the Commissioner are- 
on an application being made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of Aboriginals claiming to have a traditional land claim to an area of land, being unalienated Crown land- 
to ascertain whether those Aboriginals or any other Aboriginals are the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land. 
If one goes on to clause 65, which deals with roads, one will see a similar responsibility to ascertain the wishes of the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land. Finally, if one looks at clause 67 one will see that it speaks of the traditional rights to use or occupy Aboriginal land. Because my time is limited, I simply draw that to the attention of honourable members. 
I have raised those points in this discussion because a great deal of emphasis has been placed by some people on the subject of the traditional ownership of land. I believe that this Bill goes a very long way towards meeting most of the criticisms that have been offered. But one must realise that there are difficulties in going further and that, much as we might like to go further in relation to those who have this close association and a traditional right to own land, there are difficulties in assessing who those people are and the boundaries of the land which they are seeking without having to examine the claims over a very long period of time. That sort of examination would only delay further the opportunity for us to be able to give land rights to Aborigines. I think all honourable members would appreciate that time is important in this exercise and that, as well as that, it would be extremely costly to make such an examination. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The situation as I understand it from reading this clause if that there is a very necessary time lag between the proclamation of the Bill generally and the establishment of land councils as proposed in this Bill. The establishment of those councils will enable the provisions of clause 70 to be put into effect, to operate and to achieve its purpose. There are already certain limitations upon the right of entry on to Aboriginal land which are administered through the Social Welfare Ordinance of the Northern Territory. So, for the time being, the rights of individuals to go on to Aboriginal land are already restricted and the exercise of those rights is capable of being restricted by the operation of that ordinance. 
Until this Bill becomes law following its proclamation and until the councils are establishedthis involves a time lag- and are able to accept the responsibility to administer the entry of persons on to Aboriginal land, there will not be a situation in which the provisions of this legislation including clause 70 can be enacted and brought into operation at the one time. If, as has been suggested, the Government lacks  bona fides  with respect to this issue, I daresay the Government could seek simply not to bring the legislation on- that has not been the case- or simply fail to proclaim it anyway. Who could be heard to complain about that? There is no question of lack  of bona fides.  There are quite proper reasons for what is proposed. If honourable members opposite had sought an explanation, I am sure that their queries could have been adequately answered to their satisfaction. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister referred to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee questions concerning the desirability of restoring to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme numbers of products? In view of my representations and those of other honourable members, were cows' milk substitutes referred to the Committee, and what has been the outcome of the Committee 's deliberations? 
-I am pleased to be able to follow the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in this debate because he and I have adjoining electorates and I dare say we are both interested in the consequences of devaluation in our own communities. I was surprised that he suggested that the manufacturing industry would not be assisted as a result of the Government's decision. He would know as I do that in the electorates which we serve there are large numbers of manufacturing industries that have suffered extensively as a result of export competition in this country. Those industries have put off large numbers of their employees. He would know as I do that those people are without employment. Our areas generally exhibit the worst unemployment in the 
State of New South Wales. The efforts of this Government will help to correct that situation. 
The reasons for the decision were that with excessive wage costs our currency had become over-valued, our manufacturing industries could not compete and therefore they had to make savings. They made those savings by discharging employees. The fact is that a devaluation, provided the unions are prepared to co-operate in achieving wage restraint, will result in more work for companies manufacturing for the Australian market. 
-The people who are without jobs, like the people in my electorate and like the people in the electorate of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  will be able to find jobs in the manufacturing industry in this country as a result of the decision that has been taken. To suggest that manufacturing industry will not be helped as a result of that decision is quite specious. In fact I would suggest that, by criticising the decision that has been taken, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is jeopardising the employment possibilities of many people in the area that they know best- in the manufacturing industry in this country. He would know, when he spoke briefly about the money supply, that the guru of monetarist theories, Milton Friedman, was reported in the  Australian  today as saying: 
I think that  Mr Fraser  has set about not only correcting the course of Australia's economic future- and present- but setting realistic guidelines which one can see achieving stability and confidence. I would say, from my understanding, that Australia is very well regarded internationally because now- and this is comparatively rare among Western nations at the moment- it appears to be pursuing a mature and steady course. 
To suggest that monetarists would be displeased with the decisions that have been taken is stretching our credibility too far. 
Today I want to speak in this grievance debate about the sabotage of this Government's economic policy by the New South Wales Labor Government. Honourable members would know that the Premier of New South Wales produced proposals for a change in the Commonwealth Government's economic policy entitled 'A Special Economic Recovery Program ' of 1 976. If honourable members take the time to read that paper they will see there a number of significant statements. I propose to go through them. The Premier recognises something that I have known for some time. In point 1 of his paper he says: 
New South Wales has the highest unemployment rate of all mainland States. 
In point 2 he says: 
New South Wales has the largest number of unemployed, representing 44 per cent of the Australian total. 
He says in point 4: 
New South Wales has been experiencing a slower rate of new capital investment in many areas than has been the case in other States. 
Those comments are significant. I have taken out the unemployment figures for New South Wales for the time since the Labor Government came into office in that State. Only in the last quarter did the figures in that State fall. In Victoria over the same period the number of unemployed fell each month. Let me read the figures. In June the New South Wales figures were up by 5796 and down in Victoria by 325. In July they were up in New South Wales by 4870 and down in Victoria by 1250. In August they were up 1000 in New South Wales and down by 2471 in Victoria. In September they were up by 602 in New South Wales and down in Victoria by 1812. These are significant figures. At the time when unemployment in New South Wales was increasing Victoria was managing to decrease the number of unemployed. The Premier of New South Wales suggests certain reasons for this situation. He says: 
One of the causes of the particularly severe unemployment in New South Wales is the high content of heavy industry in the State's traditional pattern of manufacturing. Superimposed on this has been an extraordinary coincidence of acute recession in both segments of the building and construction industry-the dwelling and the non-dwelling sections- for reasons which are largely different as between the two. The resulting unemployment is State-wide affecting non-urban areas as well as the industrial centres. It has a high content of young people and female office workers, as well as of unskilled and semi-skilled males. 
They are not the reasons for the economic decline in New South Wales in comparison with the situation in Victoria. Why could the Premier not have been more realistic? The basic reasons are these: There is in New South Wales a spectre of nationalisation, a socialist government in office determined to undermine the morale and confidence of the business community. 
What does the Premier want to do? He says first of all that he wants to take over the race clubs because they are full of vested interests, as he calls them. He says that he wants to take over the Australian Gas Light Company Ltd and puts certain reasons for that. Why would peoplehave confidence in New South Wales when they know that the Government proposes to pursue policies of that nature? I draw the attention of honourable members to an article that appeared in the 
Sydney  Sun  on Wednesday, 27 October. It contains a picture of  Mr Wran  under the heading Do Not Leave Us Plea by Wran. New South Wales Jobs Going South'.  Mr Wran  knows that as a result of the policies that he has pursued manufacturers have a lack of confidence in him and they do not want to be in New South Wales. If they can move out of that State, they will. They will go to other States where they will find a more attractive environment.  Mr Wran  wonders why the construction industry is in trouble. I can tell him. The reason is that the statements of his colleagues have created the spectre of rent control. Who would want to construct home units in New South Wales with the possibility of a nil return, as was the case under the former Labor Administration when rent control was retained for so long? 
The honourable member for Chifley sent me an article recently about the lack of car sales in New South Wales. Last week an article appeared in the business and finance section of the  Australian.  It points out very clearly that New South Wales holds back the car boom. The figures in Victoria and other States are quite satisfactory but the figures in New South Wales are down. Honourable members must ask themselves why this has been the case. It is because New South Wales has unique conditions which it has introduced before any other State in relation to emission control. Why would manufacturers find that their market is falling in New South Wales when they are holding it in other States? The other significant reason is that the New South Wales Government has set about to bash the car retailers in New South Wales with the sort of legislation that it has advanced to deal with shyster operators, as it tends to call them. This legislation is far more expressive, far stronger and harsher than legislation adopted in other States. These are the reasons for the decline in car sales in New South Wales. 
Finally, in the area of wage control,  Mr Wran  uses a blackmail technique. He says that wage control is essential and then attempts to blackmail the Federal Government into giving him additional funds with the promise of offering wage control to the Federal Government.  His  is a disastrous economic package. It does him no credit. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Can the Prime Minister say whether the Government has made any decisions to alleviate the communications problems experienced by the people of the Torres Strait? 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  because I find his remarks so stimulating. It is a pity that he has to distort and misrepresent the position that is explained in the clear words used in the legislation which is before us and to try to misrepresent to the Australian people the purpose of that legislation. It is a pity that he has to distort it by using comparative words like 'Hitler' and 'honesty' in relation to honourable members on this side of the house. I find that totally unworthy of him, as would every honourable member on this side of the House. There is no way that we will be labelled with those sorts of malicious charges. I resent it very much. 
While we are looking at some of the matters he raised, let us look at the content of his speech. It is important that in an Act of Parliament which applies to most people in the community and which has in it quite harsh penalties- not penalties that we have imposed but penalties that were imposed by a government of the political persuasion of the honourable member for Burke - 
Yes, a government of the political persuasion of the honourable member for Burke, because it enacted this particular item of legislation. We are debating a Bill relating to an Act of Parliament which has an effect on corporations and individuals. That is the effect of the High Court decision of the other week; it has an effect upon individuals. If the honourable member is saying to us on this side of the House that there are other people in the Australian community to whom such legislation should not apply if they are in breach of that law- that is what he is saying to us, that there is one group of people to whom the law shall not apply but that it shall apply to all others with all the harshness and all the penalties that his Government saw fit to include in the legislation- and if that is what the honourable member refers to as honesty, then I think it is quite clear that all the honesty rests on this side of the House. 
I refer the honourable member for Burke to section 51(2) of the Act which will read: 
In determining whether a contravention of a provision of this Part other than section 45d or 48 -  which refers to mergers-  has been committed, regard shall not be had- 
to any act done in relation to, or to any provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding to the extent that the provision relates to the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of employees. 
There were 2 provisos mentioned there. One was section 48 which related to mergers, and I do not think that would affect those matters about which I have spoken, and the other was section 45d. I ask the honourable member, and I ask the Australian people, looking at the words- not read in total but looking at the specific operative words which are relevant in section 45D- to note that the action can be taken to deal with boycotts, to deal with a situation of employees who engage in conduct or in concert 'for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation'. What is wrong with that? Does the honourable member think that employees should be in a position to hinder or prevent the supply of goods or services by an employer to a corporation? Does the honourable member believe that in all cases? I think that is where we differ quite substantially. I believe, as do all honourable members on this side of the House, that we went before the people in December 1 975 with that in our policy. I have heard some people in government in New South Wales where there is a one seat majority speak about mandates. Look at the size of that rump on the other side of this House. We will talk about mandates. The Australian people endorsed this Government and its policy proposals because they did not want those boycotts; they did not want that sort of malicious conduct from people like the honourable member for Burke, who spoke before me in this debate and who made it clear that the unions want to be able to hold other people to ransom, that they want to be able to deal in a harsh and unconscionable way with other people's property and the rights of the individual. 
While I am on this matter, let us look at the position of the people in New South Wales whom I represent- not the people in Victoria whom the honourable member represents who have not had imposed upon them as a result of a union boycott prices for petroleum products that are extortionate in the extreme. The people of Victoria are subsidised by the people of New South Wales. If honourable members want to know why New South Wales is going down the drain they should ask themselves what is the effect upon the people of New South Wales and the industries of New South Wales of additional petrol price increases which have been brought about by the trade union movement that honourable members opposite defend and represent. These increases have been brought about by the boycotts of the Transport Workers Union. Their attitude is totally unconscionable, totally dishonest and has brought about a situation for which we have a mandate to remedy- and we shall do so. I pledge myself to oppose any amendment to this sort of provision which, quite clearly, the Australian people have demanded. 
I want to deal with the Bill in a broader way. I support the proposals in general as well. There has been some criticism of this legislation. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made reference to some of these aspects in his speech. He wondered whether there was demand by the Australian people for an amendment - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  Can we have a cessation of private debate? 
-I do not know that I needed that assistance, but thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I shall endeavour to carry this matter further and to cover some of the very important aspects of this legislation which will assist the Australian people and will assist in the provision of jobs and creating certainty in manufacturing industry. Whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide wants to ignore it or not, very widespread concern was expressed about the legislation that applied previously in the Trade Practices Act. That matter was the subject of considerable public discussion. It was a matter of great debate during the previous general election. I believe, as do all honourable members on this side of the House, that we have a mandate- I use that term advisedly- to proceed with the introduction of legislation that will restore certainty and clarity to the present legislation. Such consideration was one of the principal tasks that we expected the Swanson Committee to perform. We wanted to ensure that manufacturing industry would be in a position to be able to proceed without being unduly hindered in its tasks by claims that can be brought, very often without adequate reason, before the Trade Practices Commission. We wanted to ensure, where we could, that where issues had to be decided the law was given clarity where it had not been clear to date. I do not think anybody would disagree with the sorts of concepts that people speak of as being a requirement for trade practices law. It is rather the way in which we seek to amend the legislation that is important. Trade practices law concerns a set of market practices, market behaviour, market power and the structure that endangers the competitive processes. The main goals of competitive policy are competitive prices, efficient methods of production and innovation. There are important objectives and I do not think anybody would disagree with them. But we have to look at the particular provisions in the Act and ask ourselves whether those provisions bring about that sort of situation. 
We have discussed tonight in considerable detail the sections dealing with prices discrimination. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitiam)  cast doubt upon some of the suggested amendments that were brought forward in the Swanson Committee report. I should like to commend to all honourable members the reading of section 7 of the Swanson Committee report, which deals with price discrimination. That particular section spells out in some detail the important considerations that affect this matter of certainty, the matter of jobs and also the important matter of manufacturing industry being able to be successful. The section dealing with price discrimination has been the subject of considerable discussion because of the involvement and the conflict of that section with the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. We have seen also that the practice of quantity discounts has been emasculated. We have seen that these provisions have worked to the detriment of consumers in the maintenance of prices at a higher level, which has discouraged volume sales. That has had an effect upon manufacturing industry. Whilst that section speaks about the lack of price flexibility, these provisions must be examined. 
What we have seen happening in Australia has occurred frequently in the United States of America. If honourable members would care to look at an article by  Mr Charles  Filgate Giles appearing at page 555 of the  Australian Law Journal  of November 1976 they will see, under the heading 'Price Discrimination- s. 49', some more detailed reference to the United States experience, which has been very similar to our own. As yet not many cases have been brought here to decide what the section means. There is a great deal of uncertainty as to the intention of this Parliament arising from the language that has been used in the Act. In the United States a great deal of criticism has been levelled at the varying interpretations that courts have placed upon some of the terms used. That might not happen here, but it may. While that prospect of uncertainty exists, is it any wonder that the price discrimination clauses have not been effective? 
The honourable member for Grayndler made reference also to the commentary by the Trade Practices Commission on the Swanson report. I went through the commentary and looked for the powerful arguments that he suggested would persuade me to another course. I looked at the commentary and found that it was couched in the same sorts of generalisations, with the same sorts of general statements, as it was criticising in the Swanson committee report. Regrettably, in this area we are not dealing with specifics- there is no finite data available upon which we can make our decisions. We are making them on the basis of judgments. But very important questions are involved. Indeed, it has become clear that there has been a maintenance of higher prices as a result of that particular provision. That is my view and that was the considered view of the Swanson Committee when it had before it the numerous representations that had been made to it. 
While we are talking about representations, the honourable member for Grayndler suggested that he had received great volumes of representations from small retailers asking that this particular provision be maintained. It may well be that he has had representations passed on to him by the spokesman for this matter on the other side of the House. It may well be that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has received some such representations. But I can say that in moving around my electorate- the large city of Parramatta- I have not had people coming up to me and saying: 'Ruddock, you have to maintain those price discrimination clauses because to do otherwise would have a disastrous effect upon small business'. That sort of view is simply not abroad in the community. 
There are some other matters with which I want to deal. I think I have dealt in some detail with selective boycotts. I want to cover two other aspects, the major one of which relates to the Minister's statement on the applicability of this legislation to government. I remind honourable members of the statement by the Minister when he said that governments are becoming increasingly involved in commercial activities often in direct competition with private enterprise. It is anomalous that the Trade Practices Act should apply to private enterprise and not to government enterprise of a commercial nature. The Minister went on to indicate that at present an interdepartmental committee is examining the detailed implementation of this proposal. I want to encourage the Minister to ensure that this committee reports promptly. 
Well, I hope the Minister can assure us that he will adopt new provisions very shortly- perhaps when we consider these amendments when the Parliament resumes in a fortnight's time. In my view it is important that statutory corporations operating in direct competition with private enterprise should comply with this legislation. Statutory corporations should not be allowed to continue to be immune to this legislation. We do not often hear about State corporations such as the dockyard at Newcastlea New South Wales socialist enterprise. We do not often hear that and we want to hear that this legislation will apply also to those socialist enterprises and the statutory corporations of the States. I hope that the interdepartmental committee looks at some of those aspects. This may lead us to some conflict with States, but I would hope that this legislation would apply to all trading corporations, be it Trans-Australia Airlines  vis-a-vis  Ansett Airlines of Australia or be it Medibank  vis-a-vis  the private health funds. 
In recent history let us look at a letter by Professor Peden of Macquarie University on Labor Party advertising, in relation to Medibank, in which it is suggested that Medibank was free. In a letter in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 November 1976- honourable members might like to refer to it- he makes reference to this problem. This sort of advertising could be prompted by a government for political reasons. It was not capable of being reviewed by the Trade Practices Commission. I believe it should. 
The other matter with which I will deal briefly is public hearings. We know, of course, that the manner in which public hearings of the Commission are to operate is to be changed. The Swanson Committee, in dealing with conference procedure in its report from page 240 onwards, mentions that the proceedings ought to be made simpler and implies that people who might offer professional advice to companies ought to be excluded from those provisions. I suggest to the Minister in relation to small companies that are not in a position to have on their boards a solicitor, a barrister, an accountant or somebody like that who can argue their case with some familiarity that those companies will be put at a disadvantage in comparison with the larger companies in some of these exercises. I think we ought to look much more closely at whether or not the smaller companies ought to be able to get some advice in that way. 
Another aspect which I wish to cover deals with secrecy. I think it is important that we pay some respect in this legislation and in the way in which we examine it to some of the aspects of corporate property. In this I mean trade secrets, patents, items on which companies have contributed valuable research, development, knowhow and so on and other matters that have been mentioned to me such as the money price of a merger and details of current costings. I believe that in the examination that is to take place much of the secrecy is preserved by the new procedures that have been adopted. I have not examined this aspect of the Act in detail. One of the things that I would be looking for in my own personal examination of these provisions is that these valuable items of corporate property are protected. There is a public interest to which we must look as well. I believe that it is important in the public interest that people who have invested money in companies in the knowledge that they will have certain corporate assets and advantages that sometimes those corporate assets bring have their investment protected. I am pleased as I speak in this way to see honourable members nodding some approval in relation to these aspects. It is of fundamental importance in this legislation that there is the protection of minority interests, that there is the protection of the rights of individuals and that there is genuinely equality before the law. 
Let me return to the point upon which I started. We know that in this legislation as previously drafted certain people were exempt from its rather onerous provisions, onerous as they have been described by honourable members opposite even though they legislated for the provisions. I want, in my consideration of this legislation- and I am sure at least all honourable members on this side of the House do- to ensure that all people are equal before the law and that the law applies to individuals, corporations and groupings of people to a like extent so that any trade practices which are unreasonable can be stopped. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I present a report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry into the health problems of Aborigines. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Tonight I wish to make some remarks about the Postal Commission. 
MrStaley-Kindly? 
-No. That organisation was created by this Parliament and it is a monopoly, bureaucratic organisation. In my experience to date it has been unresponsive to the wishes of this Parliament and its members, and generally to the wishes of the public. 
-' Unresponsive' was the word I used. I intend tonight to relate to the Parliament my concern at the quality of stamps produced by the Postal Commission to assistin the celebration of the Queen's Silver Jubilee. I thought honourable members might like me to show them the actual first day cover which was produced by the Postal Commission to celebrate the Jubilee. 
-I accept the Minister's invitation, and members who wish to look at these stamps may do so. I have some from other countries, some in close proximity to our own, which have produced stamps that I believe are a more fitting tribute to Her Majesty and to this very special celebration. I show honourable members this magnificent collection from St Vincent, postmarked from Kingstown. It has depicted on it the kings and queens of England since William I. Each one of the stamps is a beauty in itself. When collated and put on a cover, I think they would do credit to any self-respecting nation. 
-I would not like to try that. I understand there are other means of affixing stamps to envelopes. I recently became aware of the Cook Islands, which I understand is not a large nation. In fact, its population would do 

<graphic href="104131197703175_89_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703175_89_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703175_89_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703175_89_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703175_89_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197703175_89_7.jpg"></graphic>

credit to any country town. It has produced the magnificent first day cover which I have in my hand. If the stamps are broken up and taken out each one is delightful on its own. 
-No, I have a very kind constituent who loaned them to me. Honourable members should take the opportunity to have a look at them tonight because they are going back with me tomorrow. From Barbuda there are stamps of equally great quality; from Togolaise stamps of considerable quality; from Tuvalu - 
-Tuvalu, a Pacific island in our region of which we should take considerable notice because it does have interests in our own region. Again, it has produced stamps of great quality. Jersey and Guernsey, even Canada and New Zealand, have each produced stamps of much greater significance and greater worth than our own. Commentators on Australian stamps have had a great deal to say over a long period. In an article in the  National Times  last weekend a  Mr Eric  Partington said: 
Australian stamp designs are regarded amongst the poorest in the world. Australia Post may think its stamps are good but dealers and collectors don't. 
I know there can be exceptions and I believe that the stamps for the centenary cricket match were an exception, but when one examines the article that I referred to earlier one becomes aware of the fact that when Australia widened its selection process to allow other people to contribute ideas the stamp quality improved. But when it was up to Australia Post's own graphic arts department, with pictures chosen from the Library of the  Australian Women's Weekly,  that was the standard that we achieved. New Zealand uses its stamps to promote itself as a country. I believe it is important that we use ours to promote ourselves as a self-respecting nation. 
-Will the Minister for Post and Telecommunications assure the House that, notwithstanding the need for clarification of certain aspects of the area to be served by a radio station for the western suburbs, a licence will be granted for that significant area of New South Wales of which Parramatta is the centre? 
-In the short time available to me tonight I want to continue this discussion on the wages-prices squeeze because I am very disappointed at the way in which honourable members opposite have endeavoured, in concert with others, to break down the great storehouse of goodwill that the Australian people have offered to this proposal and the strong feelings they have that it would work to their benefit and to the benefit of this country. At the time when this proposal was announced, when governments of different political persuasions came together and said 'We are prepared to co-operate; we are prepared to put aside our political differences and to work in the best interests of Australia', my electorate at large embraced that proposal with a great deal of gratitude and enthusiasm. 
By the way in which people responded to the call. 
-I say to the honourable member for Prospect that I speak to the people in my electorate. I speak to many people in it. I live in my electorate and I see people on every occasion I am in the electorate. I also had quite substanial meetings to discuss these questions before I came back to this place, as the honourable member should know. Putting that aside, there was some suggestion tonight in the speech that we heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that there was some plot, some connivance in the way in which this scheme was arrived at. When one looks at the nature of the parties involved, the experienced Premiers, how could one even allude to any sort of plotting or connivance? The plotting and connivance have come since then by the efforts of the leadership of the trade union movement to bring into line the Labor Premiers of Australia and to say: 'You have adopted policies that do not fit into our plot to break the resolve of this Government to overcome the real problem that this country faces'. 
This proposal has my wholehearted support because it is needed and is wanted. Suggestions have been made that these sorts of policies have not worked in other countries when they were applied in a compulsory way. I dare say that we all recognise those countries that have not been able to adopt proper policies to contain demand inflation and have then seen their policy of repression of wages and prices fail because the demand pressures were there to be its undoing. But that is not the situation in Australia at the moment. Proper demand policies have been pursued by the Government and the Government has made it clear that those policies will continue whilst a temporary freeze is in operation. What it does give us an opportunity to do is to break the cost-push element of inflation from which we suffer now. Everybody knows that the great bulk of the inflation from which we suffer is as a result of price rises being followed by wage rises and so on. Some people describe it as a form of spiral. If that can be broken the opportunity will be there for the policies that will contain excessive demand thereby to restrict inflation in the future and to contain it. But if we do not control that cost-push element now no amount of proper demand policies will overcome it. It is a pity that honourable members opposite do not recognise that, as does the whole Australian community, and that they do not embrace this policy entirely. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the United Nations Security Council is considering a resolution directed at the closure of various Rhodesia information centres? Is the Government prepared to act to close the Rhodesia Information Centre in Sydney? If not, what other countries does the Minister expect will permit such offices to continue operating? 
It is a pleasure to participate in this debate, if only to bring back clearly to the minds of the members of this House and of the Australian people the points that ought to be at issue. The staff ceilings about which we are speaking were imposed by this Government when it first came into office. Now some 1 5 or 16 months later members of the Opposition are endeavouring to put the question of staff ceilings in some new and different light. They have tried to imply, by the very way in which they phrased this matter of public importance, that the public is suffering as a result of the very proper steps that were taken by this Government when it came into office, steps which were demanded by the Australian people. Members of the Opposition have neglected to mention that there is nothing magic about staff ceilings. If one looks at the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  one will realise that when the staff ceilings upon which we are acting were imposed they merely followed on staff ceilings previously imposed by the Labor Government after its Hayden recant in its last year in office. 
The fact is that the Labor Party in office recognised that there was a need for across-the-board restrictions on the growth of the Public Service and it imposed staff ceilings. Those staff ceilings operated in all the ways about which honourable members opposite now complain. When we came into office, faced with a most difficult economic climate, it was quite proper that we should look at that area of government expenditure encompassing salaries and conditions of our own employees, which had grown enormously in a period of 3 years. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  who spoke previously, gave particulars of the numbers by which the Public Service had grown in the 3-year term of office of the Labor Party. When it is appreciated that in that short period of time the Public Service grew by some 25 700 people, or 19 per cent in 2 1/2 years, the enormity of that growth is demonstrated. Everybody would know that when an organisation burgeons and grows like that, it cannot help but be inefficient. It cannot help but have areas in which, if they are looked at properly, savings and adjustments can be made and where tasks and functions can be performed by one person rather than by two. 
I acknowledge that in some areas there should be an appropriate and judicious transferring of staff from one area where they might not be required to other areas where there are peak demands brought about by economic circumstances. There is a need for flexibility, I acknowledge that, but that does not in any way cut across the fundamental point that the proper use of staff ceilings is the only way in which a government service that is not motivated by the need to make profits can ensure maximum performance from its employees. Quite frankly, in a situation where members of the Public Service are protected in their jobs from dismissal, have superannuation benefits which are far more generous than those offered to most other people, have comfortable if not lavish premises in which to work, are able to work in a secure situation knowing that they will not be in jeopardy, there ought to be some method by which pressure can be brought to bear upon those people to give of their best. Such a result can be brought about, in my view, simply by imposing staff" ceilings. No other way is available. 
I believe that there are situations in which individual public servants might quite properly have a complaint. The Prime Minister recognises that, and in his statement of 9 February he invited people to advise him or the appropriate Ministers of any difficulties that were encountered. He said specifically: 
Ministers and the Public Service Board have been asked to keep me informed as to any difficulty encountered in achieving the ceiling by June 30. 
In answer to a question from the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  who spoke before me, the Prime Minister made it clear once more that the staff ceilings would be achieved by wastage, resignations, and matters of that kind. In the answer he gave to the honourable member for Fraser he added specifically: 
In that statement I included a paragraph which indicated that I wished any areas of particular concern or of hardship to be brought to my notice before action was taken involving any particular difficulty, and retrenchment is obviously an area involving difficulty. 
The Prime Minister was answering a question from the honourable member for Fraser in relation to the possibility of retrenchments in the National Capital Development Commission. Of course, as all honourable members would know, no retrenchments took place in that area. There was no need for concern. These were alarmists trying to build up that question. However, that same honourable member who received that clear answer came into the House today and along with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  failed to substantiate in every respect where staff ceilings would be having any injurious effect upon the service given to members of the public. 
I know from working in my electorate and the responsibilities that I have as the local member that in relation to the services offered in Parramatta by the Department of Social Security the complaints about delays today are no different to those that I received previously when the Labor Government was in office. I am sure that if I went around and asked each honourable member whether the situation was any different today to that which existed previously, I would receive the same answer. The only specific case that the honourable member for Fraser attempted to raise involved my electorate. It was in relation to the Family Court at Parramatta. 
I must say to all honourable members that I have visisted that Court on a number of occasions. I have spoken to the staff and no complaints have been lodged with me and no suggestions have been made that staff ceilings were having any effect upon the service offered by that Court. In fact, I was told with pride that the Parramatta Court was able to dispense with matters much more quickly and judiciously than other courts in the family law area. Of course, it must be recognised that the honourable member was inaccurate even in relation to the suggestions he made. He suggested that 2 judges had been appointed recently at Parramatta. In fact, if the honourable member had read the Press release of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  he would know as I do that  Mr Justice  Yuill was appointed to the Parramatta Court and  Mr Justice  Cook was appointed in Sydney. Those appointments have been the only 2 recent ones. The honourable member was wrong in fact and certainly there have been no complaints brought to my attention about the staff ceilings affecting that area. 
Quite frankly, the case has not been made out. There have been no clear statements made which indicate that reductions and delays in the services offered to the public have been caused by Public Service staff ceilings. The case has failed. Specific examples could have been given. But they were not. The opportunity was given. The Prime Minister invited specific allegations to be made when he imposed these staff ceilings. Yet those people who now complain in this House have failed to give the story and have failed to give the specific examples. They put up only the puny excuse that they were worried about intimidation. Anybody would know that if trade unions are good for anything, the one thing they are good for is protecting employees against intimidation. I do not think that was an excuse that would justify the failure on the part of the Opposition to make out the case that they have put to this House today in the debate on this matter of public importance. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that today marks the decennial anniversary of the granting of constitutional power to the Commonwealth to make laws for Aborigines? What progress has been achieved for Aborigines over that period of time? 
Particular provisions are to be amended to give to individuals rights  vis-a-vis  their trade union and the trade union movement generally. But while we are withdrawing from the position which we had adopted previously, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has indicated that this matter will be reviewed in August. There will be discussions with the Trade union movement through the National Labour Consultative Council which will be established in an endeavour to put to the trade union movement the responsible nature of the course which we are pursuing and the desirability of these provisions. 
I was very disappointed in the observations made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in relation to this matter. He made it very clear that the trade union movement- that is the organisation- is opposed to this matter because it thinks that it will weaken the trade union movement financially; that it will affect its membership numerically; that it will destroy the bargaining power of the unions and that it will create dissention. Yet, I come into this place and hear honourable members, like the honourable member for Gellibrand, pursuing other legislation which deals with minority interests and freedom of the individual and which imposes harsh penalties. But honourable members stand up for it and say that, in those circumstances, it is right and proper and ought to be pursued. So when we come to the companies Act and company ordinances we do not see honourable members opposite balking at the proposition that the rights of minority shareholders ought to be protected  vis-a-vis  the company or the board of directors. In other words, what is all right in legislation dealing with other organisations is not all right when dealing with a monopoly organisation in the form of a trade union in which individuals have no rights. 
When we come down to the real reason that these proposals are being opposed, we find that they affect the vested interests, those who control, the leadership and the incumbents in the trade union movement. The people who would be called power brokers and capitalists in a company situation are different when they exercise that sort of power over individuals in a trade union situation. The crux of the matter  vis-a-vis  the individual is that the organisations will be weakened financially. They will not have as much money to control. They will be weakened numerically. They will not have as many members from whom to collect money. It is suggested that these clauses will destroy the union's ability to bargain, the ability to exercise power over other people in the community and other organisations, that it will create dissention, that people who are members of the organisation, who would have been entitled to a voice and to more realistic participation, will lose that opportunity. Because we want to give them an opportunity to participate or to say that they do not wish to participate it is suggested that that will create dissention. Those are the sorts of provisions to which honourable members opposite object. Yet in relation to other people in the community, other organisations and bodies where minority and individual rights are involved, honourable members wish and ask and by past performance legislated for harsh penalties. But when we wish to treat all people equally honourable members opposite seek to deny those same rights to individuals. Quite frankly, I am disappointed in the Opposition. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In relation to the Community Development Employment Projects Scheme announced by him last week to provide employment for Aboriginals in particular communities, will the operation of the scheme and the provision of jobs ensure that the work test for unemployment benefit is capable of being applied in such communities? 
-by leave-My purpose in rising to speak is to address myself to only 2 principal recommendations contained in the report of the Standing Committee on Road Safety. They are the recommendations seeking to compel the provision of under-run barriers on large vehicles which have an overhanging tray and rear marking plates on heavy vehicles. However, I cannot avoid directing some attention to the remarks of my colleague who spoke before me on this subject, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I should like to think that the problem of achieving standardisation or uniform collection of data could be solved simply by allocating a sum of money to establish a Commonwealth authority such as the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Regrettably, it is not as simple as that. Data can be collected on a uniform basis only when those parties who are responsible for collecting the information are prepared to forgo some of their powers to set the terms upon which they now collect information. No number of authorities established by the Commonwealth, when they lack constitutional competence, can overcome the right of each State to set its own method of collecting information. Each police force, each transport authority and so on has its own method. It is not a matter in which one can introduce a political note and say that something has been lost because some savings were made in a Budget context. 
In this report we are seeking State cooperation in providing for under-run barriers on heavy vehicles. We are compelling manufacturers to make all motor sedan vehicles crash worthy so that the front or back of a vehicle will concertina if it hits a heavy object and protect the passengers inside the passenger compartment. The development of crash worthiness in motor vehicles has cost a lot of money. We have on our roads other vehicles which immediately undo that crash worthy capacity in the motor car. They have wheels and a tray and when a collision with a car takes place what happens? The bonnet goes underneath the tray, the tray goes into the front of the car passenger compartment and its occupant is injured. If there were a substantial barrier at the end of the vehicle or if the vehicle tyres were set well back with barriers in between the crash worthiness effect of the car would play its role and the occupants would be protected. 
People talk about a cost benefit analysis. A cost benefit analysis may be carried out on how much extra it costs to run a vehicle which has a crash barrier. We could say that it is a very expensive item. We should put that up against a person whose life is lost because the capacity of a vehicle to save his life was nullified because another vehicle on the road was totally incompatible with it. If it was a matter of having telegraph poles down the middle of the highway we would not hesitate to get them off the road. Trucks, of course, cannot be taken off the road but they can be made safer. This step is one method by which it can be done. Coupled with that is the provision of adequate rear marking. Quite obviously if we can stop cars hitting trucks because people can see a vehicle ahead, so much the better. These recommendations are important. I see them as being the crux of this report. I believe that all honourable members ought to give this report their utmost consideration. 
It is a pleasure to be able to follow the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in this debate and to commend his speech to careful reading by all honourable members because the points I am about to make will come through with the most certain clarity. The honourable member spoke about the question of need. He spoke about identifiable people who are denied legal aid in one form or another. He said that we have a responsibility to try to provide a scheme or system of aid that will meet those needs. Yet he fails to recognise the fundamental point that, whilst the Commonwealth has some powers, there are large areas in which the Commonwealth has no power. One ends up with a situation in which the Commonwealth with its limited powers is able to offer a scheme to some people and ignores others. 
The whole purpose of this legislation and the scheme behind it as well as other legislation that this most reforming Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has brought forward is to provide schemes that will meet the needs of the whole Australian community on a genuine needs basis. It is not fair to deny aid to some people in the community and to make available to other people a greater amount of assistance simply because they are the only ones whom the Commonwealth is able to assist. Yet, that has been the case. The policy of co-operation with the States and of development of a scheme to meet the whole needs of Australia- and 'needs' is the operative word- is I believe one of the most progressive reforms that we have undertaken in office. If there are minor problems in the way of proceeding to that path, let us work cooperatively to overcome them. Let us not ignore them. 
It is a great disappointment to me to see moved on behalf of the Opposition an amendment which I can describe as no more than a 'motherhood' amendment because it says absolutely nothing at all. Like everything else, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith defends legal aid, speaks favourably about it but does not look at the difficulties that arise. 
The honourable member spoke about the problems that the States have in funding a cooperative legal aid system. He asked: 'What about the problems the States have in putting money into this system?' Yet he ignores the problems of the Commonwealth which as responsible parliamentarians we must acknowledge are as great as the needs of any State to protect the moneys that are raised from State or Commonwealth taxpayers. The Commonwealth and the States have individual responsibilities. It is not good enough for the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to try to protect State interests in relation to funding and to say that the States really have no responsibility, or that they have limited responsibility, and that the Commonwealth has a blank cheque. 
While I am speaking about a blank cheque, I might mention that the honourable member attempted to say that legal aid schemes in the Australian Capital Territory were short of funds because of some activity of the Commonwealth Government in responsibly watching funding. I heard him refer to a sum of $7,000 by which this year the Legal Aid Committee of the Australian Capital Territory was short and unable to pay. I refer the honourable member to the annual report of the operations of the Legal Aid Committee of the Australian Capital Territory for the period ending 30 June 1975 which was tabled in this House only a few days ago. In schedule B of page 2 of the report the following statement is made: '(2) (a) Unpaid accounts on hand for legal assistance- $7,126*. In other words, in 1975 the same amount of money that the honourable member has alleged to be outstanding today by way of unpaid accounts was outstanding when the Labor Government was in office. Therefore there is no validity in the points raised by the honourable member. This shows how specious his speech was in relation to these questions. 
There is an urgent need for this legislation if we are to develop this co-operative scheme- and several States are ready and willing to go- to be able to enter into the new arrangements by 1 July. It is important that this Bill be in operation before the end of this sitting. It is important that we develop a scheme which maintains the benefits that have been achieved through the operations of the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney made reference to this in his second reading speech. He commended the work carried out by salaried officers and said that the provision of legal aid through salaried officers ought to continue. He mentioned the gain that had been achieved through the shop front, duty lawyer and mobile legal service systems that this Government has introduced. It is intended that these advances be continued. 
The fundamental aspect of this legislation is that it recognises the constitutional limitation on the functions that are available to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth has no express powers to be able to legislate for legal aid. The only powers that it has are incidental and relate to people such as Commonwealth public servants, immigrants, social service beneficiaries, students and servicemen, in respect of whom it can legislate. These people do not make up the bulk of people in our community. They make up a large number but not the bulk. The Commonwealth also has a legislative function in respect of the family law area, among others. The fact of the matter is that we can develop as has been shown by experience already, a first and second class legal aid system. Those who have the privilege of being a particular class of person, are eligible to go to the Australian Legal Aid Office. Others are not. They have to be despatched somewhere else. The problem is that we have a variety of schemes. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a schedule which will demonstrate this situation. I have shown it to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith previously. It is a schedule of legal aid available in New South Wales. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197706010_58_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197706010_59_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197706010_60_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197706010_61_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="105131197706010_62_6.jpg"></graphic>

-That document demonstrates the great variety of legal aid which is available and the limitations imposed upon its various forms. There are 4 pages describing legal aid available from the Australian Legal Aid Office, in New South Wales Commissioner for Legal Aid Services operating under the Legal Assistance Act, the referral scheme and other schemes operated by the New South Wales Law Society. Like most taxpayers honourable members must wonder what I am taking about. If honourable members wanted to walk in and get legal advice which applied to a particular  situtanon  they would almost need to be lawyers to know to which organisation to go for legal aid. The diversity and different systems available through which the member of the public who needs legal aid presently is unable to find his way demonstrate the great problem. 
Of course, when we go back through the history of the development of the Australian Legal Aid Office, we come to some very easy to understand points. The previous Government was anxious to develop a scheme for which it would get the credit. It was not a good scheme but it was a scheme which provided some sort of legal aid. The Government found that the scheme was restricted in those areas in which it could operate. I refer honourable members to a report by  Mr Roman  Tomasic  who writes for the Law Foundation of New South Wales. He wrote an article on legal aid called 'Australian Legal Aid: Policy Advisers and Governmental Initiatives'. He wrote it at the time the Australian Labor Party  initiatives were proceeding and in relation to the reports which the Labor Government had initiated when it was in office such as the Sackville report about which the honourable member op- posite spoke. At page 45 of the report the author ad this to say: 
It is remarkable that it was thought fit to establish any enquiry into legal aid at all, if such apparent bureaucratic fiat as the widespread growth of the ALAO was to be allowed to operate without the support of adequate preliminary research data. 
The approach adopted was one which seemed to accept that the type and role of new institutions was readily apparent to all. Thus,  Senator Murphy,  when opening the Blacktown office of the ALAO confidently asserted that: 'We all know that there are substantial areas of unmet need on the part of ordinary people for access to the law and the legal process.' 
I think the author demonstrates by his comments that the reports which were initiated and which dealt with need were really brought in to close the stable door after the horse had bolted. We had already established an Australian Legal Aid Office and the Labor Party was seeking afterwards to justify the needs basis. I shall cover one other aspect in relation to this legislation. There has been some criticism of the Bill by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. Of course, CAGEO in its resolutions of which honourable members were advised on 2 1 March, indicated that it would have no truck with this item of legislation. The motion passed at the CAGEO Federal Executive stated: 
Expresses its total opposition to any scheme, financed from Commonwealth funds, for the establishment of Legal Aid Services which would involve the staffing of any Legal Aid body or bodies in any capacity other than as officers or employees under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 
That was the view adopted then. If honourable members read the material made available by one of the groups constituted within that peak council, namely, the Australian Government Lawyers Association they will see that those people find in this legislation- I think quite unfairly- a design to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office as part of our federalism policy. The Association goes on to castigate this legislation for that reason. When looking at the objections raised by people in the Commonwealth Public Service who are concerned about this legislation- I believe the major critics of it- one can only come to the conclusion that they are being very unreasonable in the views which they are putting. In part IV of the legislation, from clauses 20 onwards, there are a large number of provisions which have been designed to protect the interests of existing employees. If one goes through those clauses one finds that the existing employees of the Australian Legal Aid Office who will be transferred to State commissions will have their rights protected. 
In clause 21 (2) (a) salary is protected and in clause 21 (2) (b) provision is made in relation to leave of absence for recreation and on account of sickness. In paragraph (c) long service leave is mentioned and paragraph (d) deals with superannuation. In clause 23(1) the right of re-entry by way of transfer or promotion is covered and a subsequent clause deals with reappointment to the Commonwealth if the employee is dismissed by a State commission. Yet there are arguments based upon loss of career opportunities. The only basis upon which I could see that argument advanced is in relation to the large number of Commonwealth employees who are legally qualified. There are some 600 in number. Of that total 150 will be transferred in various proportions to State commissions. Unless some agreement is reached by the Commonwealth which protects their rights, those people who are transferred to State commissions will have a right to apply not for 600 positions but for only 450 positions. They can seek these new positions by way of transfer or promotion. While that is some diminution of the right of transfer or promotion- I believe there is some loss of an existing right- it is a very minor loss when we look at the number of opportunities which remain. Of the 600 positions some 150 are lost. If we take the position further we find that if a person is in New South Wales or Victoria where the larger proportion of the Australian Legal Aid Office staff already work, that proportion of loss of opportunity will be even smaller. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith spoke about substantial advances achieved in relation to needy people requiring legal aid, but in my analysis there are large numbers ineligible under the existing framework. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith established the need and I believe I have established the inadequacy of the existing framework. In relation to those needs which will be met by this legislation, I believe the loss of career opportunity is very small price in comparison. In fact, I am very disappointed that those people who hold themselves out to be salaried officers of the Commonwealth, who meet the needs of needy people, will put themselves so much before people who are in genuine need and who are not able to avail themselves of the service provided now. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Does his Department maintain records of charter flights made from Australia. 
If so, is he able to say (a) the date on which the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  flew to Noumea, ( b ) who owned the aircraft in which the Premier travelled, (c) what was the type of aircraft and its seating capacity, (d) how many passengers were on board, (e) who were the passengers and ( f ) what was the total cost of the flight. 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the Sydney  Sun  of 17 May 1977 that the Premier's Press Secretary,  Mr Brian  Dale, told reporters that  Mr and Mrs Wran  were paying for their share of the flight; if so, is he able to say if payment was made. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a statement in the same newspaper that Peter Terry of the  A ustralian  bypassed the Premier's office and called Noumea direct, that  Mr Wran  told him he was not paying for the trip at all, that it was Thomas Nationwide Transport which was picking up the $2,000 tab for the charter flight, that  Mr Dale  has since admitted he was mistaken and that  Mr Wran  has since said he had intended to pay for the 2 seats but because of certain air traffic regulations TNT was not allowed to share the cost with the other parties; if so, what air traffic regulations cover these situations. 
Are there any penalties prescribed in the air traffic regulations for payment for travel on charter aircraft by other than cash payment; if so, what are the details. 
-First of all I should like to take this opportunity to commend the Government on an excellent presentation, on excellent statements which have given to the Australian people the leadership on this important issue for which I believe they have been waiting. The Australian people know and are convinced that we have a moral responsibility to pursue and to develop our national resource and to do so for the benefit of the world. Tonight an amendment has been moved to the motion that the House take note of the statements presented by the Government. We have heard two speeches in relation to that amendment- one from the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr E.  G. Whitlam ) and the other from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I am glad that we gave the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition an opportunity to join his leader in publicly apologising for statements they made and policy they adopted in 1974. 1 assume they were apologising as well for the fact that they were so anxious at that time to pursue the policy of developing our resources that they entered into agreements under which the Government was to provide 72  Vi  per cent of the capital investment to develop a resource and was to allow a private corporation to join in that development by providing  27 Vi  per cent of the capital, with the Government to get only 50 per cent of the net proceeds of the sale of the uranium produced and, presumably, the private corporation also to get 50 per cent for its 27% per cent investment. What a remarkable agreement! 
They were so anxious at that time that, notwithstanding all that they have said in this debate tonight, those matters could simply be put aside. I have heard it said that some members of the Opposition are so cynical that they are saying of their policy: 'We are really just putting it aside because we know that when we get back into Government maybe the price will have gone up and we will be able to enter into deals that will do us better credit'. If that is the basis upon which some people are prepared cynically to approach these sorts of issues I believe such people deserve no credit whatsoever. 
We hear honourable members opposite attempting to argue that in the months in which the two Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry reports have been available there has been a lack of opportunity for debate. Tonight we have an amendment to the original motion which states that this decision is precipitate and has been made without sufficient public debate. Yet we know that in this House during the previous session honourable members opposite were not able to provide sufficient speakers to see the debate through. That is the fact. They asked for time to debate this issue yet they ran out of speakers. However, we see them again, notwithstanding what is stated in the reports of the Fox Inquiry, arguing by way of these rather nonsensical approaches that we have to solve problems of storage and disposal of radioactive waste and that we have to have adequate measures to safeguard the environment, national parks and so on. These are stated as requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
The documents which we have received today clearly indicate that every recommendation contained in the Fox report in relation to measures considered necessary to safeguard our environment to provide for national parks and to protect Aboriginals and their interests, have been adopted. Yet the Opposition deigns to suggest that those measures were not adequate. However, in any contributions I have heard from honourable members opposite when participating in this debate I have not heard them discuss the adequacy of the provisions that the Fox Inquiry laid down. Paragraph (c) of the proposed amendment states that the following problem must be solved: procedures for the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes which will eliminate any danger posed by such wastes to human life and the environment, 
We know, from reading the statements contained in the Fox report and which are the result of consideration by experts, that there are ways and means by which these particular problems have been overcome. The knowledge is available and it has only been a matter of waiting for the time to elapse until sufficient wastes were available to warrant the commercial application of the technical knowledge that is available. 
-That is the case, as every expert will say. 
-I have been  to the  Australian Atomic Energy Commission and have spoken to some of our experts there. I have spoken to people at the Argonne national laboratories in the United State of America. I have spoken to all of the experts in the world who have had to sit down and develop the techniques to deal with the matter. Some of the honourable gentlemen opposite who have been trying to put fear into the minds of the Australian people, who have spoken tonight and distorted the arguments, are the sort of people who would have argued against the car. Some time ago I heard the Lord Mayor of Sydney say that, if a person had said to him at the turn of the century that there was to be a new invention which was to have four wheels, a tank on the back which would contain an explosive or volatile liquid, and a pipe running from the back of it to the front of it, where it would have some metal chambers and spark plugs which would create some explosions, and that one would sit up on top of it and drive it, he would have thought that that person was mad. The fearmongers we heard here tonight saying 'It is not possible', are no different. Yet we know that, with technology and the proper development of knowledge, a motor vehicle had been developed and every one of us drives one every day of the week. I know that some members of the Opposition own bicycles, but I do not know of one who wants to give up his car. Yet they come into this place and say that, although we have a new technology, we have the capacity to handle it, we know how it works and we have developed the ways and means of dealing with it, we should put it aside. They want to close their eyes to this sort of development. They are fearmongers. Yet, when they were in office and had to take responsible decisions they were quite prepared to take the same sorts of decisions we have taken, without the thoroughness with which these proposals have been developed. This Government has gone through and looked at every aspect of the problem and has brought down, I believe, a very responsible and very proper statement which covers every one of the doubts that anyone might have had and that members of the Opposition have endeavoured to create in people's minds. I believe that if we read what the Leader of the Opposition said tonight- we know that he, along with other honourable members opposite, has doubts about the way in which he has been dragged along to support the Labor Party's policies- we will see that the only area in which he is able even to mount some arguments that one could regard as tenable is in relation to international safeguards and the question of nuclear non-proliferation. 
I ask honourable members opposite who raised questions about nuclear non-proliferation and suggested that terrorists might be able to obtain plutonium and make bombs to consider these simple propositions. If they do so, they will get the matter into its real context. The fact of the matter is that we have knowledge about how to kill people, how to kill people in large numbers, and how to develop fearful weapons. It was around during the last century. We know that during World War I gas was available which would kill large numbers of people and which would have horrific consequences. We know that in World War II germ warfare was available to all the participants. We know that the knowledge that was available scores of years ago would have been available to terrorists. We know that anybody with a rather elementary knowledge of chemistry and some elementary knowledge of biology could have made fearful weapons with which to terrorise people. What honourable members opposite are saying is that, notwithstanding the safeguards that are being developed and notwithstanding the efforts that are being put into controlling properly the product plutonium, in some way terrorists will get hold of that material and use knowledge which is much more sophisticated, much more refined and developed and not so generally available. Honourable member's opposite are saying to us that we ought to be afraid. The fact of the matter is that, if we are to be afraid of the consequences of what people might be able to do to terrorise us or to terrorise the world or if people are irresponsible enough to develop weapons that will wreak harm on themselves and us, we must realise that that knowledge is readily available. ' 
I want to raise one other important matter- to me it is the most important matter- about the debate over nuclear power and over the choice of resources that might be developed to give us power. We know that power is essential. We saw in the United States recently when blackouts occurred and power was not available what harm can be wreaked upon our society. We know that power is essential and has to be provided if we are to be able to maintain law and order and the sort of society that we and other nations now enjoy. We know also that there are only a limited number of ways in which that resource can be developed. 
I commend to most honourable members chapter 1 1 of the first Fox report to be read in conjunction with a book by a fellow called Professor Beckman of the United States. The book is on the hazards of not going nuclear. What chapter 11 seeks to do but does not do adequately in my view- this is what Professor Beckman's book does do- is to evaluate the dangers in all forms of energy production. It attempts to evaluate the nuclear power cycle as against, say, coal. I am one who is very fearful about the continued development of coal. I have heard other members of this House express views on this matter, yet we are quite prepared in this country, notwithstanding the dangers, to develop those coal resources without thinking about whether enough research has been done into the possible climatic changes that the development and use of that resource might bring about and without knowing really what the results of it might be and what havoc it might wreak on the world in the future. Some of these questions are mentioned in chapter 1 1 of the first Fox report where it deals with the possible dangers to individuals who participate in the coal mining business. More people lose their lives mining coal than are likely to be affected through mining uranium. We know that as a fact. We have seen it over 20 or 30 years. This highlights the very urgent need to look at possible climatic changes. Every form of development of resources has dangers associated with it, but the one thing we do know now is that the dangers of the nuclear path are not necessarily as great as the dangers of some of the other paths that we have followed and have not been prepared to examine critically. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following the settlement of the industrial dispute at the Redfern Mail Exchange in Sydney, can Australians now expect to receive their mail without interruption? 
I rise tonight in this debate to reply in part to some comments made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in relation to the proposals for a radio station for the western suburbs of Sydney. I wish first of all to say how much I welcome the decision of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to call for fresh applications for a radio licence that will be available to serve the western suburbs of Sydney. I welcome the decision particularly after the statements that have been made by the honourable member for Chifley and by others who have doubted the sincerity of this Government in pursuing the interests of the people generally in the western suburbs who need this specialised service that will be offered to the district as a result of the decision and as a result of the inquiries that will undoubtedly be undertaken. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I believe so. In respect of the balance of the speech, which the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  neglected to mention, there was a clear innuendo which I assume he is retracting now or, if he is not, I assume that he stands by it, which justifies the comment I made. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs familiar with claims for housing in Sydney by the Dhurruk tribe? Has he seen the comments of the New South Wales Housing Minister,  Mr Mulock,  that there was little he could do as Aboriginal funding was a federal matter. Are not Aboriginal people entitled to a fair share of general housing funds in New South Wales in addition to the generous programs of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? 
I rise to speak in favour of the Family Law Amendment Bill. It enables some of the matters spoken about by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who preceded me in this debate, to be dealt with in part. However, the Bill does not and will not overcome all the problems. In my comments I propose to make some observations about many of the matters which have been raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and to put them into perspective for honourable members. 
This Bill will fix a retiring age forjudges. It will enable the Attorney-General to appoint judges who will not be judges for life. He will be in a position to make appointments to the Bench under these new provisions as soon as this Bill is proclaimed. As all honourable members have agreed, as this Parliament has agreed and as the people agreed in the referendum which was passed it is desirable that Family Law Court judges should retire at the age of 65 years, I believe it is important that additional appointments should have been postponed until such time as the appointments can be made on this new basis. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Howard)  it was indicated that in the next 12 months some six additional appointments are likely to be made. As was mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, a bipartisan approach was taken by all parties represented in this House to the retiring age of judges. The proposals were supported at the Constitutional Convention and the legislation to alter the Constitution was introduced into Parliament by this Government. Those proposals were supported in this place and by the people in a bipartisan way. 
-Of course. One of the important points that have been made already is that judges of the Western Australian Family Court already have to retire at the age of 65 years. There is a need forjudges involved in this area to be people who are able to adopt a contemporary approach to problems involving the family which come before courts, which in so many ways are unique. This age for retirement will apply to every new appointment to the bench. Undoubtedly, there is an urgent need for further appointments to the bench. As has been mentioned already, there are considerable delays in the hearing of matters in the Family Law Courts throughout Australia. But I think it ought to be noted that there has been a substantial change in our law with the introduction of the Family Law Act. 
-This has created great pressure upon government and upon the administration of justice. Insufficient cognisance has been taken of the problems associated with the fundamental changes that were necessary. I look at my colleague, the honourable member for Griffith, when I make those remarks because I believe that he might have been like many honourable members who supported this proposal when it came before the House- imbued with such idealism that he overlooked the practical problems associated with substituting one complete system of law for a system of law which had previously operated and was not cognisant of the problems associated with it. We are now starting to see some of those problems. In New South Wales in the Family Law Division some five judges previously were able to deal with all the matters relating to the complex law which my colleagues will tefl me previously existed in relation to the establishment of a cause of action to enable the court to dissolve a marriage. Yet under this new system some nine judges already have been appointed for New South Wales, with the prospect of more, but they are not able to deal with the matters which are coming before them. The fact is that the system is new. It is one which needs the establishment of new rules and new precedents. It means that practitioners have to earn what the system is all about. It means, in relation to its implementation, that naturally there will be delays associated with it. 
There are some other important aspects that have to be taken into account. We have established a Family Court which is taking over not only the matters that formerly were dealt with by the Family Law Division in New South Wales for instance, but also many of the matters that previously were dealt with by courts of petty sessions. We now have a system in which judges rather than magistrates determine these matters. That is the case in spite of all the additional costs that are associated with having judges, not only in terms of salaries, the requirement for extra staff and the necessary detailed reporting arrangements but also in terms of such mundane matters as the fact that a judge is entitled to a car to take him to and from the court whereas a magistrate will find his own way to his court. There are many costs involved in the maintenance of a full Superior Court system where judges deal with all of these matters that previously were able to be dealt with by some very skilled magistrates. 
I refer to the speed with which we have tried to implement this new system. The pace at which we have moved has meant that many of the matters that previously were dealt with by courts of petty sessions, such as those relating to maintenance, custody and so on, now, under section 46 of the Family Law Act, are required to be transferred to the Family Court. In cases in which there is a dispute involving custody, guardianship and access to the children of a marriage, or property exceeding $1,000 in value, the matter must be transferred to the Family Court, unless the parties agree to the matter being determined in the Court of Petty Sessions or in a court of lesser jurisdiction. 
It is a fact that when it comes to these very difficult questions relating to maintenance, custody of children and property, there is the possibility of one party being advantaged as a result of orders being sought. One party could be advantaged by a delay. When a delay occurs, such as is the case now in the Family Court, there is a distinct possibility that a party who otherwise might agree to a matter being heard by consent before a court of petty sessions would say: 'I wil get an advantage. There might be a two-year delay before this maintenance matter can be heard by the Family Court, whereas the Court of Petty Sessions might make an order in favour of my former spouse'. In that situation that person could use this section of the Act as a method by which to seek a delay and thereby quite adversely affect the other party. I make the point that, while we are having these teething difficulties in establishing a family court system of the size and adequacy that is necessary to deal with all of these matters, we ought to look at ways and means by which we can involve the State courts of petty sessions in dealing with and determining some of these matters. I believe that the pace with which we have implemented this system has been far too quick. 
I wish also to take up some of the comments made by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith in relation to the very nature of the conflict of jurisdiction that has been highlighted out by the decision in  Russell  v.  Russell.  It seems to me that a number of particular matters might be considered, and the honourable member for 
Kingsford-Smith raised two of them. The first method of overcoming this problem, as the honourable member quite rightly suggested, was to seek to have transferred from the States, by means of constitutional amendment, the powers that they now have in relation to maintenance, custody and property in a matrimonial causes situation. The second method was to seek a referral of powers. 
However, the matter which the honourable member did not pursue and the one which I think quite rightly should have been pursued- I believe that it was being pursued by the previous Attorney-General until it became too late to contemplate such a change- was the establishment in the remaining States of State family courts exercising Federal jurisdiction. Quite clearly, if there were State family courts exercising Federal jurisdiction, those courts would have the power to determine matters arising under State jurisdiction. The matter could have been overcome easily if, instead of having this preference for an electorate Federal court system in our own hands, the sections of the Act which were envisaged, enabling the State to accept Federal jurisdiction- obviously this problem which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has raised is recognised by the States- could have been accepted by the States. The problem then would not have been as real as it is at the present time. 
-I did not vote for the Bill in its original form. I want to make that point clear also. The honourable member for Griffith has invited me to make these comments: I did not support the Bill in its original form. I supported strongly- I believe that that support has been vindicated- the amendments moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  when the Family Law Bill was before the House. One should look at the way in which the Act has been implemented and the way in which it is operating. 
The observations made by the honourable member for Wentworth when he first spoke on the Bill were quite true and correct. He made the point, quite validly- this has been brought out very clearly in the debate today by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith as well- that we do not remove from the family law area generally the conflict that can arise in marriage in relation to matters of property, maintenance and custody of children simply by removing the allegation of fault in the breakdown of marriage. 
Previously parties to a marriage were having those matters decided when the matrimonial cause was being dealt with. It was at that time that matters ancillary to that question arose. They were important issues in determining whether there was a matrimonial cause. But they are not removed simply by saying 'We are determined to dissolve the marriage' simply because there has been a notional separation for a period of 12 months. The real problems that arise in a marriage remain. The fact is that parties are still fighting over all those additional questions. 
-No. They are still fighting. The fact of the matter is that the Family Court of Australia, with extra judges and extra personnel, is still having to deal with the same complex and difficult problems. I say here and now that I do not believe that we will help the situation in Australia by the development of a very complex and large Family Court system. I believe that we will have to see the development of a system in which the registrars and  deputy  registrars assume greater responsibilities and many of the matters that people want to bring before the judges are no longer dealt with by judges. We will have to see a greater delegation of responsibility and a greater determination by people who are in the system of some of these lesser questions. 
I am told- I believe it to be the case- that even under this new Act, many judges spend a great deal of their time satisfying themselves about purely technical matters that could be dealt with by the registrars or by the officers of the Court. I am informed that in New South Wales in the old family law jurisdiction a certificate from the Registrar stating that certain technical matters had been dealt with was sufficient to satisfy the judges in the old Family Law Division that those matters had been completed satisfactorily and that the paper work was in order. Yet I understand that in many of the courts some of the judges are still going through the affidavits to see that they have been sworn properly and attested and to see that some of the technical matters that could otherwise have been dispensed with quite easily have been dealt with correctly. 
-It has nothing to do with whether I like judges. I am saying that under the old system so many of these matters had been refined, and made efficient. We have established a new system with new personnel and new administration. It has associated with it many teething problems that should have been recognised. If we had not thrown out the baby with the bath water we might have had a system on which we could have built and developed. We could have had proper administrative arrangements worked out, and worked out satisfactorily. They could have been kept. We would have had a much more efficient system. We would not have had many of the delays that are occurring today, and we would not be agonising over this real problem of delays in our courts. 
I am concerned about the delays because ultimately if there are delays they bring the judicial system into contempt in people's minds. I believe the delays must be overcome. I do not accept that we can avoid our proper fiscal and financial responsibilities. I do not believe that we can simply seek to have money appropriated to overcome the problems that we should have foreseen. We should have been aware that those problems might have occurred as a result of throwing out entirely the old system, instead of looking at ways and means of developing it to overcome some of the specific problems that existed in the minds of honourable members when the Family Law Bill came before this Parliament. 
Notwithstanding my comments about the problems faced by the Family Court and those associated with the development of the Family Law Act, I am pleased to be able to support strongly this Bill which will enable additional judges to be appointed. That may go a long way towards overcoming the problems that are facing the family law courts at the moment. I would encourage those people who are administering the system to see whether proper administrative ways of overcoming many of these delays that are being experienced can be found without the necessity of having unnecessarily to appoint additional courts and additional judges. 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen recent reports critical of the Government's community development employment project scheme which has been introduced for Aboriginals? Are these criticisms justified? Can the Minister provide me with up to date information concerning the successful implementation of the scheme? 
It is interesting to notice the way in which this debate has developed. The only concern of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was to look at the statistics for the 1% years that this Government has been in office. Then after a very thoughtful speech by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  in which he made some pertinent but honest comments about the nature of unemployment and expressed the concern that honourable members on this side of the House genuinely feel, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  attempted to come to grips with the problem by at least acknowledging the role played by the Australian Labor Party in office when unemployment in Australia grew from 136,000 to 328,000 by the time it left office. He came up with the same excuse that was offered by honourable members opposite when the Labor Party was in office. Today I took the opportunity to read the record of some of the debates that have taken place already on this subject and I thought that we may have heard today from one of the Labor Party's front bench spokesmen, such as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who gave the same sort of statistics as did the honourable member for Robertson in a debate in this House on 5 March 1975. 
-It was almost the same speech. In it the honourable member for Burke endeavoured to defend the rate at which unemployment rose under Labor by referring to certain statistics. What he tried to say was what the honourable member for Robertson said, that is, that under Labor unemployment rose but it was a phenomenon that was very much the same throughout the world and therefore we could not blame Labor. The fact is that the honourable member for Robertson today attempted to use that same argument by saying: 'Do not blame us for what happened before. It really was something that was beyond our control'. A comparison of the unemployment statistics for the countries which the honourable member for Burke chose to refer to in 1 975 with the current statistics for those countries shows that the phenomenon is still very much the same. 
-I will. If the honourable member for Robertson was so concerned about this question as to be bipartisan in the approach he would want to take, he also would realise that if we wanted to rest on our laurels we could offer the same excuse today. What of the figures for Canada? The honourable member for Burke referred to Canada and said that its level of unemployment had reached 6.7 per cent; yet today it is 7.7 per cent. 
-I would like to take a different approach from that taken by the honourable member for Robertson. Instead of saying 'and so on' and leaving out the United States of America I inform the House that in the United States there has been a marginal improvement and unemployment has dropped by 1.8 per cent. Unemployment in Australia nas gone up at much the same rate as it has in Canada, from 4.1 per cent to 5.1 per cent, while in Italy it has gone up from 4. 1 per cent to 6.8 per cent. If we wanted to selectively go through these statistics and look for excuses we could find them, but the fact is that in this House and in the debates that ought to be going on in the community we should be looking at the causes of unemployment rather than making the pious statements of the sort we hear often when honourable members express with righteous indignation their concern at the level of unemployment. I know it is hard for the people who are unemployed and I share the concern of families because their kids cannot get a job. Each one of us on this side of the House is concerned about the problem and the nature of the programs we have developed while in office expresses our concern about the problem. I propose to go through them. If we look at the programs which the Australian Labor Party developed when in officethe ones which were said to deal with unemployment-we suddenly realise some remarkable facts. As I understand the situation there were three programs. First of all, there was the National Employment and Training scheme. 
That scheme was developed and announced long before the levels of unemployment under the Labor Government started to rise significantly. Did the Labor Party have in mind, when it developed the NEAT scheme, that it would have to cope with large levels of unemployment? Is that the reason why the scheme was brought in before the numbers started to rise? 
-No. I did not think the honourable member would suggest that it was. Let us look at the structural adjustment scheme. It also was developed before the significant levels of unemployment started to occur. The only scheme the Labor Party developed in order to relieve unemployment was the Regional Employment Development scheme. Its job was to provide work of a totally unskilled nature and to give people something to do in order to keep them out of the figures or statistics which are kept. The purpose of that scheme was to reduce the numbers of unemployed in Australia by giving the unemployed some work in electorates such as that of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The work was largely digging ditches, painting fences and cutting grass. 
If honourable members think that those schemes were meant to deal with the problem, then I suggest that the approach which the present Government is taking is much more constructive. We are developing programs to look at the cause and to deal with the cause. That is what we have to look at. We have spent money on upgrading the Commonwealth Employment Service, particularly by the introduction of the important communications networks which are so essential so that jobs which are available in one area can be made available for the unemployed from another area. We have expanded the NEAT scheme along the lines elaborated by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. We have made that scheme more relevant to job finding rather than having an elaborate tertiary education assistance scheme which simply paid larger benefits to those people who were in the know. That is largely what happened. 
We have developed the Special Youth Employment Training Program under which 7,500 young persons were benefiting as at the end of June 1977. We have the education program for unemployed youth under which some 550 people whose educational skills were not adequate in the education system will have those skills brought up to a level that will help them find jobs. We have increased assistance for apprenticeship training, particularly with the development of the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme on which greater emphasis is being placed. We have the relocation assistance scheme which is an important development and an innovation and which will help people find jobs in those areas in which they are available and for which their skills and training will fit them. We have the very special program, the community youth support scheme. 
-It is an important scheme because it is dealing with the very social problems about which the honourable member was talking today as involving young people. That was the nature of his speech. That is the only matter he raised. The community youth support scheme provides a mechanism in electorates such as mine in which we have three schemes under way. I have participated in developing them. They involve young people. 
-There are three in the electorate of the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Young people are given an opportunity to equip themselves in a better way to find jobs which are available. We have the Community Development Employment Projects scheme for Aboriginals. It is important. We have the Williams inquiry into education and training. 
I believe that the problem of unemployment is real. I believe that the policies which I have enunciated shortly and which I would be happy to spell out in greater detail are genuine attempts to deal with the problem. They are far more sincere attempts than those which were made by the previous Government to deal with the causes and problems of unemployment. 
I deal with one other important area which is always overlooked. One honourable member in the House will recognise these words when I recall them, because they were said by a senior Opposition spokesman when in government. He made reference to one man's pay rise costing another man his job. That statement is as relevant today as it was then. When we look at what is going on, particularly in Victoria, in relation to efforts by the trade union movement, with which honourable members opposite are so closely aligned, to break the indexation guidelines and to destroy the wage-fixing system in this country, we realise that honourable members opposite have no interest in unemployment. They would be seeking to bring about a constructive settlement of those disputes which would not involve the breaching of the indexation guidelines if they were concerned about unemployment. Quite frankly, I predict that unemployment will increase greatly, as it has already as a result of strikes, if the indexation guidelines are broken as a result of the activities of the unions in Victoria. 

 -Mr Chairman, the speech we just heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was most disappointing to me. I believe that in the area of Aboriginal affairs there are real problems. All Australians are aware of them and are concerned about them. Australians generally would like to see them dealt with on a nonpartisan basis. We all should be genuinely trying to deal with the problems that our Aboriginal people are experiencing. All parties should be endeavouring to bring goodwill into the discussions and to appraise genuinely and honestly the matters that are at issue. I find exceedingly disappointing the expressions we heard in the opening remarks of the Leader of the Opposition such as: 'Slashing expenditure', 'an emphasis on expenditure cuts but not on expenditure increases' and 'not an examination of the priorities and the reason for the priorities but simply a distorted view of the expenditure reappraisal of the Government'. 
Emphasis was put on the reduced expenditure in the housing area. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition, dishonestly in my view, neglected to mention the increased expenditure on health programs which rose by $5m to $23m. That is an increase of 27 per cent. Education programs are up by $6.8m, an increase of 18 per cent to $43m. 
The Leader of the Opposition neglected to mention the emphasis which has been put on employment programs in the Budget as against the Government's admitted statements- of course, if we go through the statements we will appreciate this- that in reappraising some of its expenditure items housing is not being accorded the same priority as previously. No one will deny that. But one ought to be prepared to come to grips with the question of priorities. Where should those priorities lie? Is health a problem or is it not a problem? Is employment a problem or is it not a problem? When we look at the nature of the area in which expenditure has been reduced, such as on housing, we find that the reduction has been in money given to the States. The reduction is not in those programs which have been given to Aboriginals where they build homes for themselves under the grants-in-aid program but in payments to the States. I imagine the rationale behind that is that the money spent through State housing commissions is allocated for building projects which are not being built and which do not involve Aboriginals in the construction process. 
One of the important aspects of housing and housing development, where it involves Aboriginals, is that employment ought to be available for Aboriginals, through the money which is being spent in that area. If one wants to look at the distortion which has taken place when expenditure on Aboriginals is being considered, one only has to look at the question without notice which was asked by the Leader of the Opposition on 20 September of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  On that day the Leader of the Opposition alleged quite incorrectly that expenditure had been cut by 22 per cent since the 1975 Budget. Yet, as the Leader of the Opposition knows because of advice which he received from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 10 October, that figure was incorrect. There had been a variation of the order of 1 3 per cent, not 22 per cent as alleged. The Leader of the Opposition failed to go on and deal with the further fact that between the 1976-77 Budget and the 1977-78 Budget there will be an expenditure increase of about 1 5 per cent. 
Tonight I shall deal with the important scheme which was announced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 26 May to provide employment for Aboriginals. On that date the Minister announced a national employment strategy for Aboriginals. We acknowledge there is an employment problem with Aboriginals, particularly those living in remote areas who are affected more as a result of location than are people in other parts of Australia. The Government initiated a working party report which highlighted these problems. We consciously set about to deal with the problems as a result of the information which came before us. One of the important initiatives taken to deal with those problems in the remote areas of Australia was the community development employment project. I believe it is an important project and one which all Australians welcome. 
The program has made finance available to enable Aboriginal councils to pay for work performed by individual community members, preferably on a co-operative, part time or contractual basis. In determining the amount of money to be made available to an individual community, the entitlement of individual community members to unemployment benefit was to be taken into account. The important aspect of this program is that it enables or encourages Aboriginals in a community to manage their own affairs. The Aboriginal council is encouraged to determine projects which would be beneficial to the community and which would be able to deal with the allocation of labour in the community and to provide through this program work for people in those communities. That scheme was announced in May. 
I think it is important to look at the progress which has been achieved by the Government in the introduction of this pilot program. The Minister indicated that at first the program would be available for eight to 10 communities but that if it worked successfully it would provide work for other communities which wished to be involved. Already the program is under way in the community of Bamyili in the Northern Territory, at Fregon and Ernabella in South Australia and at Wiluna in Western Australia. Further programs are being considered for commencement at Warburton, Wingelina, Katta-ala. Blackstone, Jamieson and Giles in Western Australia and at Hopevale in Queensland. Consultations are also taking place with Aboriginal communities to develop these programs at Elcho Island in the Northern Territory, Mowandum in Western Australia and at Palm Island in Queensland. Some 286 Aboriginals are currently being employed as a result of this program. 
I think honourable members would like to know of some of the work being undertaken by Aboriginals under the programs which have been developed with emphasis on selfsufficiency. A program which has been undertaken at Bamyili produces farm products for local consumption. Also, clothing is manufactured for sale locally and a local garage is being operated by local Aboriginal people. At Wiluna, a community in Western Australia which I had the opportunity to visit and where many people were unfortunately housed until fairly recently in tents and the like in a village outside the town, Aboriginals are being trained to construct their own housing, making use of local materials. At the moment 20 Aboriginals are being employed in agricultural and horticultural projects linked up with the Desert Gold development. While I was there I had an opportunity to taste some of the products of that community. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is trying to interject. I think he is asking when I was there and why I was there. I was there as  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs as we were interested in the welfare of the Aboriginal people involved. This scheme is outstanding. I believe the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs ought to be congratulated on its successful introduction. It is a pilot scheme and I believe that upon evaluation it will be seen to have gone a long way to assisting Aboriginal people with the employment problems which we know exist at this time. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.49)-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has already pointed out the many promises made by the Fraser Government to our Aboriginal population and the number of those promises which have been broken. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has tried to make out that the Leader of the Opposition was misleading the Committee. I believe an examination of the facts which I will put before the Committee will indicate that the Leader of the Opposition was not only telling the truth but also that the appropriation of $90,774,000 clearly highlights the cynical and shameful approach which the Fraser Government has when dealing with the Aboriginal population. This group of people came to this continent at least 30,000 years before the Europeans landed here. The allocation in the 1976-77 Budget represented a 30 per cent cut in real terms on the allocation in the previous Budget. At a glance it might appear that the 1977-78 Budget has rectified this mistake because it indicates an increase from $83,923,465 to $90,774,000. If one goes back to the 1976-77 Budget Papers one sees just how paltry this amount is because that Budget saw a reduction in allocation from $100,222,075 to a mere $83,529,000. 
Here we have illustrated a callous and shameful approach to a group of people who during the 19th and 20th centuries were driven off most of the fertile land which they inhabited for those 30,000 years which I have already mentioned. The only land under Aboriginal ownership and control which was left unchallenged was a part of central and north Australia which was barren desert country and of no use to the settlers in that day. Because of the new uranium discoveries the Aborigines no longer can call this barren land their own. 
Whilst the rate of inflation has increased by 25 per cent in two years, assistance to Aborigines is going in the opposite direction. Surely the Aborigines had to wait long enough for this $100m which was provided in the 1975-76 Budget. Pastoral expansion in Australia brought havoc to the Aboriginal society and robbed them of their land. They were decimated by disease and were often considered vermin by the settlers of those days. The history books tell us that many of them were shot on sight by the squatters and the land owners who for some reason classed themselves as the rightful owners of this land. 
We must remember that following the 1967 referendum which decided that Aborigines would be counted in a census it was considered by most Australians that Aborigines would take their place on an equal basis with the rest of the community in the social structure of our society. The Labor Government certainly set out in that direction. As I have mentioned, in the 1975-76 Budget we provided $ 100m for Aborigines. Why was it that so soon after the recognition of the Aboriginal population, after we agreed that we would count Aborigines as one of us, we have seen this downward adjustment in their living standards? Unfortunately, it has not been a single-pronged attack; it has been a doublepronged attack. 
Not only has there been a savage cutback in the appropriation; there has been an upsurge of the colonialism which was suffered in the 16th and 17th centuries, but this time it is happening in respect of remote, isolated and barren land which originally was considered unfit for Europeans. Of course, uranium has been found there. This is why the barren land has been taken from Aborigines. One would expect that, with all this money flowing into the State and Federal governments, instead of funds being cut back they would be being increased. We heard tonight about federalism- about the extra money the States are getting and how much more they should spend in thus direction and that direction. What about the rip-off that the State and Federal governments are getting out of the development of all the mining ventures in this country for which the Aborigines are suffering? Surely that would warrant the Government spending more money on Aborigines. 
Perhaps there would be some justification for this policy of cutting back funds for the Aboriginal population if Aborigines were to be brought up to somewhere near an equal basis with the rest of the Australian population. What do we find? The Leader of the Opposition has pointed out already that unemployment of Aborigines increased this year by 45 per cent and now embraces nearly 50 per cent of the Aboriginal population. In addition to that, about 2 per cent of Aborigines are educated above the level of half way through secondary school. The cut-back in funds for Aboriginal housing and how far it is behind the standard of housing for the rest of the population has been mentioned already. Supporters of the Government try to justify the Government's action by claiming that the money was wasted by the Labor Government. 
Honourable members can measure the Labor Government's treatment of our Aboriginal population by any economic theory they wish. There is enough evidence to deny that our years in government were wasted or wasteful. At long last we gave the Aboriginal population some self-esteem and pride. But as a result of the 1976-77 Budget and the 1977-78 Budget what was gained through the efforts of the Labor Government has taken a nose dive. The 1977-78 Budget has done nothing to change the direction of the 1976-77 Budget. No matter how inadequate an appropriation the Government makes, its supporters try to excuse its lack of concern by claiming that the Labor Government mismanaged its appropriations. Of course, when a member on this side of the House tries to take them up on the very point they raise we have an example of what happens in the way they treated the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He was branded a blackguard and a traitor. 
Honourable members opposite like to refer to the economy but nothing worries them more than to have the spotlight on their economic performance. They are so scared that one of the most honest members of this Parliament, whose reputation in economic management is outstanding, is branded a blackguard. Honourable members must admit that the Government cannot stand the spotlight to be turned on its economic management. Why should honourable members opposite blame the honourable member for Oxley and why should they make this cruel cutback in funds for our Aboriginal population? Why make the Aborigines carry such a cruel, unfair penalty just because the Government refuses to take guidance on how the country should be run? The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  showed his concern for this type of thing when he pointed out today that his heart was broken by the performance in economic management by this Government. Why is it that such honest members as the honourable member for Mackellar, the former Attorney-General, sit as far from the front bench as the walls of this chamber will allow? No wonder we have the Aboriginal population up in arms. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is a pleasure in this debate to be able to offer some informed views on the performance of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in relation to his Department. I would like to offer the Minister my congratulations for the many positive initiatives that he has undertaken on behalf of the migrant community in Australia. Numbers of positive initiativesI propose to go through them- have been undertaken by this Government since it came to office. This is quite different from the cynical use of our ethnic people in Australia by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  That has been demonstrated not only in the speech that we have just heard but also in the speech that we heard on a similar matter which was raised as a matter of public importance this morning. I say that the speech that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  made in this House this morning in the debate ought to be prescribed reading for every member of the House and every person who can take the opportunity to glance through  Hansard.  He puts clearly and into perspective the way in which the Labor Party cynically uses every opportunity to pursue its political objectives. 
I recall to mind an event that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  saw, as I did, on the occasion of the presentation of some awards to Greek children in my electorate only recently. It was at the time of the municipal council elections. After the members present had taken the opportunity to present trophies to young children whose ages ranged from five or six years through to 13 or 14 years, a Labor candidate, a young man who stood against me at the last election, was invited by the State Labor member to come forward. He took the opportunity to make a speech about local government issues and about what he proposed to do if he got into council. 
Yes, because he headed the Labor Party ticket. What would one expect? But as the honourable member knows, his Party did not get the three out of five seats which it expected to get; the result went the other way. The fact of the matter is that, as the honourable member for St George illustrated this morning, this honourable member was prepared to go along and politically to abuse the invitation extended to him to come along and enjoy a little fellowship with them when they had the opportunity of making presentations to their children of awards for their sporting prowess. I think that honourable members who abuse such a privilege ought to be ashamed of themselves. 
Let us get these matters into perspective. What honourable members opposite want to do is to denigrate the outstanding work of the Minister and his Department in assisting our migrant people. If we look at the first and principal achievement of this Government we see the matter in perspective. When Labor was in office it linked up immigration and all the matters related to our ethnic people with matters concerning labour- we had a Department of Labor and Immigration. Immigration did not have a ministerial hand who was able to devote himself fully to attending to the needs of the migrant community. Immediately upon our coming to office a separate Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was established. 
One of the first acts of the Minister- for this he deserves congratulation- was to reconstitute the Australian Population and Immigration Council. As a result he has been able to receive advice on a number of important matters. Honourable members opposite know, as I do, that that Council has been asked to consider the implications of population change, developments in research in Australia and overseas in the areas of population and immigration, the probable long term effects of changing patterns of immigration intakes and, additionally, the way in which immigration intakes can be planned to complement other national policies. As a result of that, Australia's first Green Paper on immigration policies and Australian population was produced and published. Later, on 17 March 1977, it was tabled in this Parliament. 
-The honourable member says that it is a political document. I should like to refer in passing to that political document because it was about that document and during the debate of that document that we saw the honourable member for Melbourne coming out in his true light. He is opposed to migration programs involving Australia. During this debate on these important funds which are being allocated to bring immigrants to Australia, I ask the honourable member whether he is prepared to state clearly in what areas he would run down our immigration program. 
After reading through the speech he made in this House on 22 March 1977, I should like to know whether perhaps he wants to tail down the family reunion aspects of our immigration policy. Does he want to say to the Australian people who want to bring their relatives to Australia: 'No, we are not prepared to have your prospective spouse or children or parents join you in this country; we are against family reunions'? Or does he want to say that we should not have the skilled workers who are going to help to create jobs for other people? Or is he perhaps saying that if we tail down our active immigration policy, which is evidenced in the document we are debating, it is the refugees whom he does not want? He cannot have it each and every way. This is the gentleman who wants to tail down our immigration policy because he happens to believe m minimum population growth. There are other important initiatives which have been undertaken by this Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  accept that. The honourable member for Melbourne will resume his seat and the honourable member for Parramatta will address his remarks through the Chair. 
-Most certainly,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I simply want to take this opportunity to give the honourable member opposite an op- portunity to elaborate upon these matters at a later time. I am not suggesting that he should do it by way of interjection. As the spokesman on these matters for  Her  Majesty's Opposition he might be prepared at some point of time to clarify which area of our immigration program he wants to see tailed down, because these estimates allocate the funds necessary to maintain an active immigration program. A very important part of the program is that part that will provide job opportunities and so on of the type that he has been talking about today. One of the factors limiting economic growth in this country is the inability of Australia to obtain skilled workers to help generate other activity from which people might be able generally to benefit. Recovery will be generated indirectly through an active immigration program bringing skilled workers to Australia. 
During his term of office the Minister has expanded the family reunion categories for immigration and allowed people who are bringing business skills, money and so on to Australia that will enable them to commence businesses in Australia, to be eligible under the criteria for entry to this country. The Minister has also announced a far-reaching policy in relation to entry of refugees. That was done on 27 May this year. The Minister was responsible for the amnesty that was so important in clarifying the position of some 8,000 people who are now permanent residents of Australia. He abolished the requirement for re-entry visas. He established the first Australian Ethnic Affairs Council. He established an ethnic affairs policy branch within his Department, which is so important. He decided on the questions for the establishment of the separate ethnic broadcasting organisation that we heard about earlier today. He has been very much involved in that matter and deserves congratulations and commendation. 
Finally, I refer to one other matter to which the honourable member for Melbourne adverted, that is, the establishment of the experimental migrant resource centres. They are important initiatives. One is to be operated by the Australian-Greek Welfare Society in Melbourne and the other is to operate in Sydney. I wish to clarify the position in that respect. The second one is in fact to be opened in Parramatta, the centre of the Western suburbs of Sydney. It will serve one million people, many of whom are of migrant origin. Parramatta is the centre of that region to which those people look for the provision of services and support. A little difficulty has been experienced in acquiring the building from Telecom Australia. However, the leasing arrangements have now been completed and the renovations will be finished on Monday. I understand that the furniture will be moved in on Tuesday. Following that, staff will be actively recruited for that office. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1 977: 
With reference to recent allegations in the Press, did his Department use its Budget allocation in 1976-77. 
-The matters which I wish to raise concerning the Family Law Act are of the utmost national importance. Whilst the criticisms I intend to make of the working of the Act are very damning and worrying and ought to be of the gravest public concern, they are m no way a reflection upon the present Government or upon the administration of the Family Law Act by the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  or his predecessor. It has to be acknowledged that some fundamental mistakes were made when this Parliament passed the Family Law Act in its present form. There is no doubt in my mind that while the Family Law Act remains in its present form with all the imperfections that can occur in the adrninistration of justice, some very tragic miscarriages of justice are likely to occur simply because of the way in which the Act was ultimately passed and because of the lack of consideration of some of the points that were made in the debate on the legislation when it was before Parliament. 
The point I wish to make relates to the separation of the question of divorce from the other questions that have to be decided when a marriage is dissolved. Under the Act as it is framed a court can grant a decree very quickly to dissolve a marriage, but as has now become clear courts become bogged down often without very good reason and it can be a considerable time before a court is able to dispose of matters relating to property, maintenance and custody of children. I do not believe many honourable members were aware of the consequences that could flow from the separation of these two questions. The consequences that worry me are considerable. They have become much clearer with the considerable delay that is being occasioned in New South Wales in particular as a result of the large number of cases that have to be dealt with and the propensity of litigants in family law matters still to want to have the questions of custody, maintenance and distribution of property dealt with. 
The problem that has not been considered is the problem that can arise when a wife seeks a divorce and the husband, who has all of the property in his name, dies after the granting of a decree but before the distribution of property has been dealt with. The action of the wife to gain access to some of the property from his estate for her and the maintenance of the children would abate and the cause of action that the wife might have had otherwise would be lost. What is not readily realised is that under State law the wife has a method of obtaining redress. In New South Wales she has that right under the Testators Family Maintenance Act. That redress resides only with the children of the marriage or the wife. It does not reside with the divorcee. The divorce may have been dealt with promptly, but because of delays in dealing with ancillary matters tragic circumstances could occur. The matrimonial nome, for instance, could be lost to a wife and her children because there would be no way by which a court could give redress. 
I recommend very strongly to all legal practitioners and to all litigants who are at present exercising their rights under the Family Law Act that parties be not prepared to accept a decree of dissolution of their marriage until a court is also able to hear the ancillary questions of maintenance, custody and the distribution of property. Unless the wife makes the decision, she could very easily find herself in a most difficult situation. Of course this problem would be overcome if a large number of judges were appointed and if expensive courts were established, whether or not we were able to use them in the long term, and we simply speeded up the process. But as a practical matter, I do not believe the problem can be overcome in that way. 
Of course the problem has been exacerbated by our writing out of the family law system in Australia the courts of petty sessions which have so expeditiously dealt with so many matters that are now ranting before the family law courts. 
That matter might be helped if we were able to amend the Family Law Act to give courts of petty sessions jurisdiction to handle these matters. Whilst the Attorney-General has today made additional appointments to the family law courts in Australia I do not believe this will overcome the problem I am speaking of. That problem is particularly marked in rural communities where courts are not frequently held and to which judges have not been going on circuit a sufficient number of times to enable delays to be dealt with. I am told that in some rural communitie the delays could be up to two years. When we appreciate that there could be a delay of up to two years between the granting of a decree for dissolution of a marriage and the dealing with ancillary matters, we see how much the odds are in favour of a number of cases arising where divorcees will lose rights they would otherwise have had to the matrimonial home and property to enable them to maintain themselves and the children of the marriage. 
I believe this question has to be looked at as a matter of urgency. I believe it has to be looked at in the context of the Family Law Act. Until it is dealt with, my recommendation that a wife who is seeking a divorce should not seek a final decree of dissolution of her marriage until the ancillary matters are dealt with, is, I believe, good advice in all the circumstances. 
Having regard to those comments, which are certainly critical of the Act but I do not believe critical of the present Government, I think I ought to acknowledge the very progressive approach that has been taken by this Government to law reform. In this debate I emphasise the constructive approach- the co-operative approach- of the Government in relation to legal aid. It has involved State governments in its effort to develop a total and integrated scheme which will not have first and second class legal aid of the sort we had available in the past. I commend the Attorney-General who introduced the human rights Commission Bill which is presently before the House for consideration and the freedom of information legislation which will shortly be before the House. That legislation is a consequence of lengthy studies undertaken by interdepartmental committees to arrive at a final document. There are also the reforms in relation to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Ombudsman. A new federal court structure has been established. The Criminal Investigation Bill is presently before the Parliament and available for comment. Then there is the important evidence amendment Act which is also a law reform of considerable consequence. There are also important references to the Law Reform Commission, particularly those on customary law, human transplants and defamation law. This shows the very law reforming zeal of our two Attorneys-General during this Government's term in office. I believe congratulations are due to both of the gentlemen who have held that position during the two years we have had as a government. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I present the final report of the Committee dealing with alcohol problems of Aboriginals, together with extracts of the minutes of proceedings. Reference copies have been placedin the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- Just over a year ago I tabled an interim report in which the Committee stated: 
Alcohol is the greatest present threat to the Aboriginals of the Northern Territory and unless strong immediate action is taken they could destroy themselves. 
During visits to the mainland States, it became apparent that alcohol abuse among Aboriginals is just as devastating in some areas of those States as in part of the Northern Territory. Of major concern to the Committee is the devastation caused by alcohol in some traditional communities where the whole community is vulnerable. Evidence was given that in some communities more than half the total expenditure by the community is on alcohol compared with about 6 per cent for Australia as a whole. The Committee found that in metropolitan areas and country towns drinking patterns of Aboriginals are related to those of non-Aboriginals of similar socio-economic groups or where they have been integrated into the general community. However, as a higher percentage of Aboriginals are in the lower socio-economic group in metropolitan areas and country towns, the serious nature of Aboriginal drinking in these areas is apparent. 
The report outlines the devastating impact of alcohol in some communities, including serious illnesses and injuries, accidents, fighting, neglect of family, promiscuity and the breakdown of traditional Aboriginal authority. Many deaths have been alcohol-related. After 18 months of detailed investigations and discussions with Aboriginal communities the Committee has concluded that there is no immediate solution to Aboriginal alcohol problems. It has, however, made a number of recommendations aimed at prevention and treatment. The Committee stresses that emphasis should be placed on prevention. The report discusses and makes recommendations on the many and varied psychosocial and environmental factors leading to excessive use of alcohol by Aboriginals. The Committee strongly supports initiatives already taken by Aboriginals and decisions made by communities themselves such as the prohibition of alcohol, the rationing of alcohol or the establishment of beer canteens. These steps, however, have not been completely successful because of 'binge' drinking arising from sly grog and drinking at towns and nearby outlets. The movement to traditional land has in some cases led to a reduction in alcohol problems. The Committee is also encouraged by the positive contribution being made by Aboriginal organisations such as Benelong's Haven in Sydney, the Woma Committee in South Australia, and the system of police aides in Western Australia. 
The Committee believes that if an Aboriginal community decides to allow alcohol there should be only one liquor outlet within that community, conducted as a licensed club or beer canteen with strict guidelines and conditions specified in licensing legislation. The Committee firmly believes that if a community decides to limit or prohibit alcohol that decision should be supported by all resources of Commonwealth and State laws. In this regard the Committee has reiterated the views expressed in its interim report concerning practical legislative changes that should be introduced to prevent sly grog being carried on aircraft, boat, taxi, private car and through the mail. 
Other preventive measures recommended by the Committee to overcome the causes of alcohol abuse include the need for improved alcohol education. The Committee also suggests that Aboriginals make greater use of provisions of the Social Services Act to ensure that basic necessities such as food and clothing are provided to families instead of social security benefits being squandered on alcohol. 
The question of alcohol treatment programs and facilities was also considered. Because most Aboriginal alcohol programs are at an experimental stage the Committee has recommended that they continue to receive government assistance until their effectiveness has been evaluated. The Committee also sees the need for continuing support for the recruitment and training of Aboriginal alcohol counsellors and encouragement of organisations such as Alcoholics Anonymous and Aboriginal sobriety groups. 
During the inquiry the Committee was informed of problems arising from licensing legislation, especially the sale of alcohol to intoxicated or under-age persons and has recommended that existing legislation be more rigidly enforced. 
Disruption to Aboriginal communities arising from their proximity to isolated liquor outlets is of serious concern. The Committee has made recommendations aimed at giving such communities every opportunity and assistance to put their case for objecting to the renewal of liquor licences before licensing courts. 
The Committee has expressed disappointment that despite the fact that more than one year has passed since the tabling of the urgent interim report, little action has been taken on the recommendations. It is hoped that recommendations contained in the final report will receive prompt and urgent attention. I can only reiterate the unanimous view expressed by my colleagues that because of the devastating situation in some Aboriginal communities immediate action by Commonwealth and State governments is essential. This view is summed up in the foreword of the report which states that 'unless there is a reduction in the effects of alcohol abuse among Aboriginals many programs designed to assist Aboriginals will be jeopardised '. 
I would like to add that there are many people who, for the wrong reasons, attempt to gloss over the alcohol problems of Aboriginals in the mistaken belief that by disguising the problem they are in some way protecting the Aboriginals. This is illustrated by the following statement in a recent submission by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to this Committee on the health problems of Aboriginals: 
We view with caution more extreme claims about the extent of Aboriginal alcoholism. Consumption is often associated with only intermittent residents on the edge of towns. 
There is no doubt that the view expressed above does not reflect the true position. It is certainly not the view of this Committee based on the evidence it received, or of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in its report 'The Environmental Conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the Preservation of their Sacred Sites', and the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its recent report 'Drug Problems in Australia- An Intoxicated Society?' Indeed, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare voiced its concern when it said: . . . concern that the problem of alcoholism is much more acute among Aboriginals than in the rest of the community. Unless urgent action is taken part of our original Australian community may be wiped out by this epidemic. and it recommended: 
That the Federal Government implement the recommendations made by Committees of both Houses on alcohol and its use by the Aboriginal communities. 
I would therefore like to inform the people who are mindful of ignoring the recommendations of this Committee that they need to bear in mind the strong support that recommendations aimed at alleviating the serious alcohol problems of Aboriginals have in both Houses of the Parliament 
-I present a report from the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry into health problems of Aboriginals. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of Press comments last week on progress achieved towards the implementation of a national companies and securities Bill, can the Minister tell the House what progress has been achieved? Can he say if the progress is not all that it should be, whether it is being helped or hindered by those States whose governments are attempting, by introducing legislation, to indicate a level of concern which is not supported by their other actions? 
-It gives me great pleasure today as the first member for Dundas to participate in this debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. Honourable members would know that in the previous Parliament I had the privilege of representing the electorate of Parramatta. I am pleased to be able to look across the chamber today and to see my successor, whom I regard in a very friendly way. I hope that in our terms, although we are on different sides of this House, we will continue to have the pleasant relationship we have had as near neighbours and as friendly rivals on a number of occasions in the past. 
The electorate of Parramatta has been represented by many distinguished personages, and I deem it a great privilege to have been able to serve as one of its members during the last three Parliaments. From 1901 to 1921 one of our early Prime Ministers,  Sir Joseph  Cook, served as the member for Parramatta. Other personages who have represented Parramatta are Herbert Edward Pratten, Eric Bowden, Albert Rowethe one other Labor member for Parramatta-  Sir Frederick  Stewart,  Sir Howard  Beale,  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Sir Nigel  Bowen. They served as members for that electorate previous to me and my successor. 
The electorates of Dundas and Parramatta are closely related. I want the House to know of their close proximity and of my abiding interest not only in my own electorate but also in the general region of that electorate. The city of Parramatta is a dominating force in that region. It serves not only the electorate of Parramatta but also the electorates of Mitchell, Dundas, Prospect and Reid, each of them being significant within the boundaries of the city of Parramatta. For that reason, as the honourable members for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  Reid  (Mr Uren)  and Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  have done before me, I will continue to take an interest in the city and its problems and the problems of the Parramatta City Council. 
I mention these matters because Dundas and Parramatta are so close.  Sir Frederick  Stewart, as he served the electorate of Parramatta, lived within the boundaries of what is now Dundas.  Sir Howard  Beale, as he served as the member for Parramatta, lived within the boundaries of what is now Dundas.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, as he served the electorate of Parramatta, lived within what is now Dundas. As I served Parramatta, I lived in Dundas. Dundas was part of the electorate of Parramatta. Of course it is so close to Parramatta that my successor also lives in Dundas. It is a very closely knit area and one that has many problems. 
The electorate of Dundas is a novel one and will be a novel one to members of this House. I take the opportunity to acquaint honourable members with its derivation. Even I had some problems, although I live in the suburb, in finding out what the derivation is. I suppose that the electorate of Dundas was named after the suburb and a former municipality that later was absorbed into the city of Parramatta. The suburb was named after Henry Dundas, the first Viscount Melville, who was born on 28 April 1742, educated at Edinburgh High School and the University of Edinburgh and admitted as a member of the Faculty of Advocates in 1763- a member of the Bar. In 1774 he was elected to Parliament and the next year he was appointed Lord Advocate of Scotland. In September 1 784 he was made a member of the new board of control constituted under the East India Act. In 1791 he became Home Secretary and among other duties had charge of affairs in New South Wales. In 1794 he became Secretary for War and the Colonies. In 1 80 1 he resigned his office. The next year he was created Viscount Melville, and in May 1804 became First Lord of the Admiralty. In June 1805 the House of Commons voted that he be impeached for frauds in the Naval Department, but I am pleased to be able to say that in 1806 when tried before the House of Lords he was acquitted. 
-I do not know anything about that. It may be something with which honourable members opposite are more familiar. The electorate of Dundas is close to the city of Parramatta. The principal centres within its boundaries are Ryde, West Ryde, Denistone, Eastwood, Epping and Rydalmere. These are north-western suburbs of Sydney with which honourable members may be familiar. In the areas that I previously served I have lost some 30 per cent of my former constitutents; I have retained some 70 per cent of them, and 1 have the privilege to represent them in this Parliament. 
Not only did I lose from within the boundaries of the electorate I served the city of Parramatta itself, but also I lost the Macquarie University. That disappoints me, although some honourable members might regard the challenge of a university as being somewhat awe-inspiring. I have enjoyed the occasions when I have associated with that centre of learning. I now have new industries in Plessey Australia Pty Ltd, Hoover (Australia) Pty Ltd, and Automatic Totalisators Ltd in the area I represent. I continue to represent a large segment of the pharmaceutical industries of this country, and of course I will have a continuing interest in the problems with which those industries are confronted. 
I have within my electorate significant institutions and homes that deal with the problems of handicapped and subnormal children. I will maintain the interest in those organisations that I have had in the past. On this occasion, the first occasion on which I speak as the member for Dundas, I would like members of the House to know a little of the nature of the electorate and of its problems. I hope that the short rundown I have given has been of some assistance to them in understanding the nature of the electorate which I represent in this Parliament. 
In his Address the Governor-General said once more on behalf of the Government: 
My Government  rededicates  itself to govern for all Australians and to work in partnership with all groups to build an Australia in which its people can have security, the knowledge that they can plan ahead with assurance, and that their efforts will be rewarded. 
The words of the Governor-General very largely were taken from a statement made by our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  immediately after the recent election. I think it is timely that we remind ourselves of the character of this man who leads us, because he is not, as is put by some honourable members opposite, a divisive character.  His  is not, as has been put by some honourable members opposite, the character of a man who has at heart the interests of only one group of the community. It is the character of a man who is dedicated, as all of us are, to govern in the interests of all Australia and to govern in the interests of all our constituents. 
-I thought I said all of us on this side of the Parliament. I stand corrected if I did not. I think that is the responsibility of members of Parliament. I thought that the speech made a little earlier by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in which he pointed out the areas of unity, the areas in which honourable members are able to come together and to work on committees, the areas in which the Opposition supports the Bills of the Government, which occurs quite frequently, was a sensible speech. It was a speech of some stature. 
As one who has advocated in the past the virtues of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  compared with those of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  I was disappointed in the speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It was very divisive and it was one which spoke about the important problems with which we are faced in relation to our own security, not as members of parliament but as a country. It was quite unlike him to make such a speech and it was not a speech I would have expected from him in the light of the sort of co-operation that the Prime Minster had offered. It was not a speech which honourable members opposite ought to be offering. I challenge all honourable members opposite to read once again the remarks made by the Prime Minister immediately after the recent elections, because they represented an olive branch held out clearly inviting honourable members opposite to participate with us in working for the benefit of all Australians and in working for our nation's future. 
In the light of those comments, I am disappointed therefore that people in some parts of Australia are seeking to frustrate some aspects of the Government's policy. I speak particularly of those people who undertook recently to disrupt the efforts of the Government in dealing with the important problem of unemployment. That is a subject on which honourable members do speak- I trust they do not do so piouslyfrequently in this House. I become very distressed when I learn that people who have a responsibility in what we call the Public Service of this country have set about to frustrate the clearly important task of reforming and of enhancing the ability of the Commonwealth Employment Service to fulfil its functions. Honourable members opposite will recall the words of the Speech of the Governor-General. He said: 
As a priority, the Commonwealth Employment Service will be made a more effective national manpower organisation, better able to help the unemployed. 
Of course those words reiterate the Government's firm resolve to initiate the recommendations of the Review of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the report commonly known as the Norgard report. Honourable members opposite will know that that important report covers a number of matters. The Review sets out to revise the objectives and the functions of the CES, the administration of the unemployment benefit, the placement role of the CES, the counselling and occupational services needed in the CES, the needs of special client groups such as young people, the handicapped, Aboriginals, migrants and so on, the delivery of manpower programs, the collection of labour market information, computerisation in the CES, the role of commercial employment agencies, and the management of the CES as an organisation, its staffing, office procedures, location of offices and so on. It is a report which is well worth reading because we all have dealings with that organisation. I invite honourable members opposite to look at the recommendations, particularly those to be found in paragraphs 11.20 and 11.21 on pages 180 and 181 of the report. I shall read to the House paragraph 1 1 .20 because it sets out with the utmost clarity the problem with which we are faced at the moment in relation to the Public Service. The report clearly states: 
The present recruitment arrangements, particularly for employment officers, mean that most staff have little practical personal experience in industry. Whilst the Review would not wish to suggest that industrial experience should be a pre-requisite to appointment as an employment officer, it nevertheless strongly believes that the efficiency of the CES would be noticeably improved by the recruitment of a proportion of people from outside the Public Service who had spent some time in industry or commerce, either in an operative or managerial capacity. As one submission quite rightly pointed out, 'the knowledge of industry and occupations is essential to an employment officer. Trying to graft this knowledge on to young people without any previous work experience is very difficult '. 
The report recommended further that 'a percentage of employment officer positions, perhaps 10 per cent, are placed in the Fourth Division and reserved for persons who, although not of Third Division educational standard, have the industrial knowledge, skills and personal qualities needed by the CES. Some of these positions should be open to persons outside the Public Service'. There is a need to change the CES and to give it a wider role, to give it people who are capable of assisting young people in getting those jobs which are very often available but to which very often the CES is not capable of linking them. This important reform is being frustrated at the moment by those people who have a responsibility to tend to the needs of those who are out of work. I regard it as being absolutely atrocious that people can use- that is all it is- to their own personal advantage the needs of the unemployed. That is what is going on in this country at the moment. 
It is an absolute disgrace that they would put their personal advantagethe security that they have in a job right here and now, an income that they have for their families- before the needs of that organisation to be able to place properly those people who are out of work. 
I would imagine that that is so, although I would except the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who had the moral fortitude in this debate to say last night that those people in the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association were wrong. I hope that instead of interjecting as the honourable member for Reid did, honourable members opposite will have the courage to stand up one after the other and to repeat, as did the honourable member for Hindmarsh, with the utmost clarity their disapproval of the action of that trade union in relation to our young unemployed people, the people whom we all have to represent in this place in one way or another. 
-I am concerned about those young people, as the honourable member would know. I am certainly concerned at the way in which the reforms necessary in the CES are being frustrated. I want now to mention some other important proposals that were spelt out in the Speech of the Governor-General. I was particularly pleased that this Speech mentioned the promise that was given by the Government during the election as a commitment for this Parliament in relation to handicapped persons. I am particularly pleased with that section of the Speech where he deals with the programs to bring genuine assistance to those in need. He said: 
In furtherance of this program, legislation will be brought forward to expand eligibility for the domiciliary nursing care benefit. Funding programs for the housing of the handicapped and aged will be extended a further year. Voluntary welfare agencies will be assisted in their emergency relief programs. 
In my electorate there is the school Karonga at West Epping, a very worthwhile school built by parents to tend to the needs of sub-normal children. There is the Crowle Home which has been advanced primarily through the efforts of volunteers. I am particularly pleased that these organisations, particularly Karonga, will be eligible to apply for assistance for the hostel that I know Karonga plans in the likelihood that money will be available for that particular project and for other important projects to tend the handicapped people in our community. I am particularly pleased with the additional promise made by the Government. In the GovernorGeneral 's Speech it was stated: 
The Government will introduce measures to ensure that parents of handicapped children pay no more for their education than parents of other children, and to provide further assistance for the education of children in isolated areas. 
I wish to commend briefly three other intentions of the Government. I refer to the proposal to insure building society deposits; the program of reform spelt out in relation to narcotics and the promise to institute reforms in relation to alcohol as it affects Aboriginals. 
-I welcome this opportunity to make some brief remarks about the operations of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the previous Parliament and to welcome the intention of the Government to establish once more as a standing committee of the Parliament the House of Representatives Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. The Committee in the last Parliament spent a great deal of its work in the development of its two reports on alcohol problems of Aboriginals. In October of last year the final report of the Committee was produced and tabled in the Parliament. That report contained a number of very important recommendations which, if implemented, would certainly improve the lot of our Aboriginal people generally. I welcomed therefore the notice given in the Governor-General's Speech that the problems associated with alcohol abuse amongst Aboriginals, to the extent that there is abuse, is a matter of concern of the Government. I give notice that if I have the opportunity to serve on the Committee once more I will be pressing for that to happen. 
The Committee will undoubtedly deal with a health reference which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will refer to the Committee once more. I believe that there is a continuing responsibility on the part of committees to monitor the progress which is being achieved in the implementation of the recommendations they make and previous committees have made. I have no doubt that the Minister is aware of our concern in that regard and that we will see a very prompt response from him, as he has already indicated by his efforts in ensuring that mention was made in the Governor-General's Speech of the fact that the Committee's important recommendations are being attended to. 
I welcome also the indication given by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that consideration is being given to enabling members of committees to play a greater role in choosing the advisers that will be available to them. I welcomed the support given to the previous Committee by Departmental representatives and the  Speaker  in the appointment of our specialist adviser on the health reference, Professor Max Kamien. It is important that committees have available to them people who have experience of the subject under examination and who are able to offer a great deal of support to the committees in developing their ultimate recommendations and in considering with them the material that comes before the committees. There is a need for the committees to be able to recruit staff who have the capacity to be able to help in a specialist way. I think that we have seen from the operations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the past the way in which specialist advisers can contribute so much to the preparation of reports. 
I do not think there would be a more appropriate time than now to say that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs will not have available to it the services of former members of this Parliament. In that regard I mention the Honourable W. C. Wentworth and the Honourable Kim Beazley, who are no longer available to serve as members of the Committee as they are no longer members of the Parliament. I wish to refer to the contributions that those two former Ministers made to the work of the Committee previously. The tasks of those honourable members who are volunteering to work on these committees will have to be much greater than it has been in the past to make up for those who will not be able to serve and who have had this wide experience. That is not to denigrate those honourable members opposite who served previously as Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and whose experience I have observed previously in the work of the Committee. If they are able to offer their services again, I believe that they will be most invaluable to the Committee in its deliberations. I believe that the Committee served a very useful function in the previous Parliament and I believe that it can contribute a great deal towards the welfare of our Aboriginal people in the future. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In regard to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and its report tabled in the last Parliament, has the Minister any progress to report to the Parliament in relation to the implementation of the recommendations of that Committee? 
-This is a very important debate but unfortunately, notwithstanding the measured tones in which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has spoken in the debate and the informed remarks of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  the local member, there have been speeches which one could mildly describe as provocative and likely to exacerbate rather than help in a very difficult situation. I was disappointed, although I am not renowned for defending the Premier of Queensland, with some of the terms used by the spokesman for Aboriginal affairs on the other side of the House, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  He made references to the Premier being insane and indicated his willingness to certify him. 
-Yes. I was almost inclined to see whether there was a manner in which that could be dealt with under the Standing Orders. The honourable member will not help overcome this very difficult situation or help the Aboriginal people involved by making those sorts of remarks. If we are to embark on a program of confrontation, as the Opposition has sought to do, we will be in exactly the same situation which the Australian Labor Party was in when it was in government. Then, because of its activities, it turned the people of Queensland almost to a man against it. It got to a point where in this House it held only one seat in that State. I am surprised that one who suffered as a result of the policies of that Labor Administration and lost his seat would want to push us headlong into confrontation. 
That is not to say that the Government has not been provoked somewhat in this situation, or that the points that the Minister and the honourable member for Leichhardt have made have not been well taken. They have. There is no doubt in my mind that there are clear policy differences between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government which need to be resolved, and they will be resolved, but only by discussion and proper action on the part of this Government, if that is necessary. If honourable members had listened carefully to the speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs they would have seen in it not a flagging of confrontation but a clear statement of that commitment that this Government has to legislate if necessary. Notwithstanding that we now have a debate, brought on in a precipitate way, in which the Opposition is demanding that immediate action should be taken. What honourable members opposite want is to get this subject into the headlines and to have it reported that they have made some points. They think it will help them. 
-I will come to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  because he is a gentleman who has no knowledge of the steps that this Government has taken. He persisted, despite the interjections of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs which he ignored so that they would not appear in  Hansard,  in putting points of view which were quite wrong. He tried to say that this Government had no interest in the welfare of the Aboriginal people in Queensland and to suggest that the Government had taken no part in the action that was brought by the people of Aurukun to challenge the exercise of the position of trustee by the Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland. The fact of the matter is- the honourable member ought to have known itthat that action brought by the Aboriginal people went to the Privy Council and was funded by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs through the Queensland Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. That is a direct involvement of this Government. The consent of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was required to enable the action to be pursued. The main point which the honourable member for Hughes made in his speech was flagrantly wrong. Yet he persisted in making those sorts of remarks which I regard as inflammatory and quite unhelpful in the situation in which we find ourselves. 
He went on to deal with mining as a major point, almost as though the Government had not made its position clear and was not strong in its stand. He ignored the answer which had been given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a question without notice asked by the former Leader of the Opposition on 23 March 1976. In relation to Aurukun the Prime Minister made the Government's position clear when he said: 
As honourable gentlemen would be aware, the Commonwealth is concerned that there should have been adequate consultation with the Aborigines of the Aurukun community concerning the proposal and the arrangements between the Queensland Government and the consortium in question. 
Further on the Prime Minister added: 
The Deputy Prime Minister will be taking up with the consortium concerned the question of foreign investment guidelines of this Government because the present arrangements involve 100 per cent overseas ownership, and that is not in conformity with the policies of this Government. 
I repeat that. The Prime Minister said: 
. that is not in conformity with the policies of this Government. 
There was no ambiguity about it; it was quite clear. As I said to the honourable member for Hughes when he spoke, one would think that the Opposition had turned the first sod. No mining has commenced up there. The situation is not one that has been resolved in favour of the mining companies. Consultations have occurred and are still occurring. I want to finish the quotation from the Prime Minister's answer because it is important. He continued: 
I am advised that there was no proposal by the consortium actually to undertake activities for some little time. Therefore the negotiations might be protracted. 
The Prime Minister made it clear that there would be negotiations but that the policy of this Government, as stated, was quite firm. In the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  which also disappointed me, the honourable member worked on the presumption, as honourable members opposite do, that if the Government has the power to do something it has a duty to act. I cannot accept that. There are many powers which the Government has under the Constitution but the Opposition often adopts a different attitude to the exercise of power by governments even in situations which demand it, such as in relation to security matters involving the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Opposition members do not say 'You have the power; you have a duty to act'. Yet when it comes to a situation like this they say in a precipitate way: 'You ought to act immediately, no matter what the consequences may be. ' 
They spoke in terms of standing up to the State Government. That is really their phobia. If we scratch them that is really what we find underneath the surface. They are so concerned about having a go at the Queensland Government that they want to act in a precipitate way. They are not concerned about the Aboriginal people, involved, nor are they concerned about the subject of this matter of public importance. The honourable member for Leichhardt put the matter into perspective when he discussed the welfare of the people involved and the need for them to be consulted. When we have discussed the questions, honourable members have been quite capable of reaching agreement on what ought to be done. 
The report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on the Alcohol Problems of Aboriginals dealt with one very important matter, the movement to outstations. The Committee, in its report, referred to the movement to outstations, in the Northern Territory in particular. This was not a specialist observation; it was a general observation. The report stated: 
The Committee accepts that decisions to decentralise are for individual communities to make and recommends that the movement to outstations be supported where such movement is a considered decision by the community concerned. 
Clearly, we can reach agreement by sitting down and discussing a desirable policy which will benefit the Aboriginal people. We are quite prepared to pursue that objective jointly, but we will not be able to achieve that or the policy objectives about which the Minister spoke if we seek to have a confrontation over this issue and to legislate before time. I think it is quite proper that the Minister should have the negotiations and the discussions which he has foreshadowed and that we take the action that has been foreshadowed at the proper time if it is necessary. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Special Trade Representations and Minister for Veterans' Affairs. He will be aware of the considerable interest of veterans in the wider use by the community of veterans' hospitals and in particular the wish of returned men to be located in wards where they can share their earlier experiences with people who have served in war theatres similar to those in which they served. Will the Minister assure the House and veterans generally that the wider use of such hospitals will not diminish the service offered to returned men and that their individual views of where and with whom they ought to be located in hospitals will also be taken into account? 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, with reference to the National Aboriginal Conference and its State branches: What action is the Government taking to assist the Conference to carry out its responsibilities more effectively? 
I rise to support this important piece of legislation and to oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Capricornia,  Dr Everingham.  This item of legislation is certainly very important. It is not an easy piece of legislation by any means, but it is one which I believe that honourable members on both sides of this House ought to approach in a co-operative way and in a way which will lend itself to its prompt passage and also lend itself to developing a co-operative approach between governments which do have legitimate powers and responsibilities. Whilst undoubtedly the Commonwealth has powers and responsibilities in relation to Aboriginal people, the Government of Queensland has powers in relation to the services that it must provide to all of the people of the State of Queensland. 
-This is very important and has a great deal to do with this piece of legislation. As honourable members opposite would know, clause 9 of the Bill deals with the very question of the provision of services to Aboriginal people in Aboriginal communities. It deals with the questions of housing, health, sewerage, water supply, electricity supply, communication, education and training. As the Bill acknowledges, there is a role for the Queensland Government to play in providing these services, unless honourable members opposite believe that we can have in any one State a situation of one set of laws in relation to education, for example, for one group of people- the Aboriginal peopleand another set of laws for the rest of the community. Nothing would smack more of the creation of a state within a state or of apartheid, if one likes to use that term, than that situation. 
I make this point in the debate because I have listened to two speeches today from honourable members opposite- leading spokesmen of the Opposition- which have smacked absolutely of cynicism in a way which one would hope would not be necessary in a debate such as this, in which we are essentially pursuing a bipartisan approach. 
In the last few weeks people have suggested that we should not involve politics in this matter. It has been suggested that the disputes between  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  were terrible disputes, that the political wrangle between the Federal Government and the State Government was a terrible thing and that the politicking Liberals, who were politicking amongst themselves, were not really serving the Aboriginal people. Yet, what happens m this place? Honourable members opposite sit back and let the situation continue. They could allow other people to draw their own conclusions. They come in like the tide with the most political speeches that one can imagine, the most exaggerated comments and the most blatant over-statements of propositions that I have ever heard. 
Recently, on 15 March, after the Queensland Minister wrote a letter dated 10 March, the Opposition raised a matter of public importance. The honourable member for Capricornia said: Act now. Five days after this event takes place, introduce legislation. We will facilitate its passage through the Parliament'. The honourable member said that that was what the Opposition would do. We made it very clear that if necessaryif we could not talk on reasonable terms with the Queensland Government- we would take this approach and that this legislation would be introduced. I refer honourable members to page 748 of  Hansard  at which the Minister made it very clear that the Federal Government would act and would stand by the Aboriginal people and introduce this legislation if we could not get a reasonable approach from the Queensland Government on this matter. Members opposite argued that it was an urgent matter. 
When we reached the point tonight of introducing legislation in response to the situation which has been fully documented and spoken about by so many people-it has been adequately spoken about by my colleague the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)-  honourable members opposite said that they wanted the legislation postponed and that there was no urgency about the matter. Some people who were saying previously that we could not deal with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, now are saying: 'You can have absolute faith in his undertaking that he will do nothing in the meantime. Now there is no need for urgency. The situation has changed '. 
-I am speaking about the Bill, which is more than many honourable members opposite do, even with their prepared speeches. I am replying to a member's specious remarks in this debate about postponing the legislation, putting it off, which could possibly endanger the communities about which honourable members opposite piously speak in this place. Consequential matters were raised in the speeches of honourable members opposite. They did raise some matters with which I believe it is very important to deal in this debate. 
The honourable member for Capricornia moved an amendment suggesting that we ought to put aside this proposal which deals with the very important question of control of settlements and of decision-making in settlements. He introduced a new and separate element. If the Opposition cannot fight on one question it brings in a new element, one which is likely to exacerbate the situation further and one which is likely to lead to the situation in which the very important question of services such as health and education- we would expect the Queensland Government to continue to provide those services for Queensland people, including Aboriginal people- would be put in jeopardy by promoting an all-out confrontation. That is what honourable members opposite are all about. 
All the speeches that we have heard in this debate and in similar debates on previous occasions have been about an all-out confrontation in every respect. The speeches have been about one government- the Canberra Government- obtaining by way of legislation power over another government. I do not think that ought to be the basis for this legislation; nor does the Minister. The legislation seeks to give to the Aborigines the right of self-determination- an ability of the people themselves to be able to make decisions in their own communities. 
Yet the Opposition has introduced a land rights question which puts in jeopardy programs which are for the benefit of Aboriginal people throughout Australia. I think this point ought to be made because we all know that we are the subject of a written Constitution. That Constitution provides that if the Commonwealth acquires land in one form or another it has to acquire the land from the party concerned on just terms and pay just compensation. What does that mean? The figures that have been quoted in relation to an attempt to acquire all the reserves in Queensland have varied between about $500m and $ 1,000m. That is the amount of money that would have to be paid out. Whilst it may be fine to acquire the reserves, what effect will that have on the programs and the balance of programs for Aboriginals in our community? What would happen if all the money that would otherwise be appropriated for programs for the Aboriginal people- housing, health or educationwere set aside to accept a constitutional obligation of providing on just terms for the acquisition of all those lands in Queensland to which one could effectively give control by legislation of this sort? Whilst honourable members opposite might think that we can print money, take it from other appropriations or perhaps just find the money in some other magical way, we know from experience that there is no magical way. 
I am sure that if we put to the Aboriginal people that the question was whether we provided land and total land rights in Queensland, acquired all the reserves on just terms, that is, paying out that money for those rights, and lost ali their other programs throughout the rest of Australia- housing programs, education programs, health programs- they would say responsibly that they would wish to see the maintenance of those programs which would be to their immediate benefit. In relation to the programs that the Commonwealth has a responsibility to provide, it is important that the Commonwealth acts responsibly for all Aboriginal people, not just some Aborigines. There was some good material in the speech of the honourable member for Capricornia. I endorse generally his approach to the question of selfdetermination and the emphasis he put on this. It reflects very much the approach of honourable members on this side of the House and members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. We have looked at other aspects of programs for Aboriginals in Australia. 
I believe that it is very important that Aboriginals in their own communities are able to make those decisions which affect their well-being and they are able to make decisions as to whether they wish to be assimilated, if that is the nature of the Queensland Government's policy and approach, as against a slower and more gradual approach which, I believe, would be to their benefit. If we examine the history of Australia over a long period, we can observe that the policy of assimilation of Aboriginals has failed. The reason we do not have many full-blood Aboriginal people in New South Wales, for instance, is that Aboriginals were forced to live on the outskirts of towns and to be assimilated in one way or another. They were expected to live in houses and were not allowed to live in a traditional way. They were pushed aside, pushed out of the way and abused in many ways. There was no capacity for them to make a choice about living in a traditional way which perhaps would have preserved their culture and given them the strength to deal with some of the stresses that come when one's culture is under threat. I see that as being very basic to the problem. This item of legislation has been developed around pursuing that objective in relation to self-determination but not bringing into conflict a whole range of other questions such as the education and health services which the State would normally provide and which the State is expected by us to continue to provide to the communities. Sub-clause (2) of clause 9 is very important in that respect. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  spoke of deception in this debate and in the approach of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and he related his comments to clause S of the Bill. He suggested that the Minister was deceiving people because he was seeking to substitute ministerial control for self-management. Nothing could be further from the truth. Clause 5 of the Bill, one of the operative clauses, deals with the very basis upon which the Minister will be involved in making determinations on requests from Aboriginal communities as to whether or not self-management will occur. It is not a question of his ministerial control. In fact, the amendments that the Opposition has proposed would do more to bring that about than the proposals of the Government. The suggestion of" the Opposition that the Minister ought to act in a mandatory way when he makes a decision on a request from an Aboriginal community would put at risk the very legislation we are debating tonight and its effectiveness. One of the important facets of this legislation is the discretion that has been given to the Minister to enable him to satisfy himself as to whether the council genuinely reflects the views of the Aboriginal people in the community. The councils and their composition can be effected by Queensland legislation and by decisions of the Queensland Government- this is one of the things that I should have thought the Leader of the Opposition would have picked up in his distorted claims about the Queensland Government- and it is quite clear that changes could be made in Queensland legislation so that we had a council that was not representative. If the Opposition's amendment is carried, a council could make a request and the Minister would have to implement it without going behind the decision of the council to see whether it was in fact a representative decision. I cannot understand the Opposition putting that view to the Parliament. 
In relation to clause 9, the Opposition wishes to substitute in sub-clause (2) the requirement that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs must consent to the Queensland Government accepting its specific responsibilities for schooling and health in the communities. I cannot imagine anything that would have a more disastrous effect on the relationship between the Commonwealth and the State and on the ability of the Commonwealth to maintain meaningful services in these reserves and communities than an amendment that put at risk the schools that are there, the schooling obligations of the State, and the health programs that are being administered through the Queensland Government. Such a provision would only exacerbate the situation. 
The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act and led the House to believe that there was some failing on the part of this Government in implementing that legislation. That legislation is law. It is a Commonwealth law that prevails over Queensland law. One of the benefits that the Aboriginal people do have is access to an Aboriginal legal aid service. As individuals they are entitled to proceed before an industrial tribunal if they are not being paid full adult wages, and the Commonwealth law as it now applies enables them to get that full wage. If Aboriginals are prosecuted the same law can be used as a defence. Legal advice is available to Aboriginalsvery adequate legal advice- through the legal aid service. The law is available for their benefit and is in operation. To suggest otherwise shows a total misunderstanding of the nature of law and its effect. The emotional speech made by the Leader of the Opposition was couched in such a way as to mislead Aboriginal people and destroy their confidence in a very important piece of legislation, and to do it on a quite specious argument, in fact I believe a very deceptive argument. 
It is shameful in every respect and not worthy of the Leader of the Opposition. Finally he suggested that the Queensland Government would have the capacity to go into the reserves and padlock the facilities that had been provided- presumably the schools and hospitals. I cannot imagine anything more fearsome than to say to people that their schools and hospitals would be locked up. The Leader of the Opposition made that suggestion without any comprehension of clause 1 5, the clause of which he was speaking but quite clearly did not understand. Clause 1 S of the Bill makes it plain that the Commonwealth will be able to go in and use its general acquisition power to buy or acquire land and facilities they might be in the form of a building or a school or a hospitalavailable to the Aboriginal people involved. There would be no padlocking of the facilities. Clause IS enables us to deal with that situation should it arise. The political way in which this matter has been treated is shameful. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am very disappointed that the time available for this Committee debate has been taken up with the discussion we have just heard from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I am disappointed because some three weeks ago we were told that the Opposition would facilitate the passage of this sort of legislation with the utmost expedition because it was urgent, because it was considered to be urgent. It was argued that it would be urgent and that it would be necessary. Now when the legislation is before us and when it is necessary for it to be dealt with expeditiously, we have this provocative style of speaking which is unhelpful and which certainly will not contribute in any way to a worthwhile consideration of this important piece of legislation. 
We have before us four amendments moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I have to take them on their face value. I do not have any appreciation of what he considers them to mean, yet I will be asked to vote on them. It is a charade because the honourable member puts me in the position of having to vote on these amendments having heard nothing of his reasons for considering them necessary. He may have made the point that this matter could not be considered because he has wasted his time - 
-And ours too, yes, by discussing something that was argued and dealt with tonight by the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  perhaps far more effectively, if I may say so, than the matter was argued in the speech we have just heard from the honourable member. 
Yes, he said it several times. I would agree with that also. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  I ask the honourable member to ignore interjections and to address himself to the clause. 
-The fact of the matter is that we proceeded to deal with that matter and it was voted upon. Now four amendments are before the Committee, each of them relating to important definition clauses. Unless one were able to sit down and contemplate what the meaning of the amendments may be, one would not know what the Opposition intends. As I understand it, the intention of denning Aboriginal communities and reserves, Islander communities and reserves as communities that on a particular date- 31 March 1 978- were communities for the purposes of the Act is to effect the acquisition of those sites, reserves or communities on that date. The problem is that if that is the intention of the Opposition, it is a very inadequate method, in legal terms, of endeavouring to acquire property. Provisions are included in the legislation to allow the proper Acts relating to the acquisition of land to be used in appropriate cases. But to use the provisions in this Bill in a general way to acquire, possibly acquire or to intend to acquire property without making provision for just terms and without considering any other legislation that may make provision for just terms puts at risk the carriage of this legislation. It puts it at a point where under challenge it can be declared to be invalid by a court. If that is the consequence of the amendment, I regard it as being poorly thought out and one which is not deserving of consideration by this Committee. We just cannot alford to have this legislation dealt with in this way and put at risk by endeavouring to acquire property without making provision for just terms. This is the nub of the matter. 
I return to the point I made at the beginning: If this is the intention of the Opposition, as I believe it is from my reading of these amendments, it would have been worthy of the people that the honourable member says he is endeavouring to assist in this discussion at least to have advanced or endeavoured to advance the reasons for our considering it. On the face of the amendments, as I read them, there is no reason for them to be supported by the Committee or by the Government and good reasons why the Opposition ought to withdraw them and re-think its position on this question. The Opposition is putting this legislation at risk. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  for being very thoughtful although not in every respect persuasive or accurate in the amendments that he has put forward. He has given a lesson tonight to one of the newer members of his side of the chamber because he has sparked our interest- a very healthy interest- in the amendments that have been moved. It is a lesson that I think ought to be well taken. The clauses that have been mentioned and those I will refer to include clause 9. 
The Opposition has sought to amend subclause (2) to provide that the Minister- that is, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- will have to consent before any other body, authority or person other than a council provides any services relating to matters specified earlier in that provision. That includes housing, health, education and so on. One of the bodies that one might expect the Minister would have to consent to being involved in providing its services would be the Queensland Department of Education and, similarly, the Queensland health authorities. What is being suggested is that before the Queensland authorities which have proper functions to fulfil are able to provide those services they are expected to provide for Queenslanders, including Aboriginals, the consent of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be required. I cannot imagine any amendment or provision that would be more provocative than that in terms of the relationship between a State and the Commonwealth. 
Further amendments have been moved to clause 12. I should like to state briefly that the proposed new clause 12a already is covered in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1975 and that provision would not be necessary. The amendments to clause 12, as I understand it, seek power that is already vested in councils under the Queensland Act. 
-Has the Prime Minister taken action to ensure that Government departments and agencies meet their obligations to report to this Parliament as expeditiously as possible? 
-The readers of  Hansard  and the listeners to this debate could be forgiven for being confused about the purpose of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Amendment Bill because what they heard was a speech about Aboriginal land rights. Yet the Bill is a Bill to amend the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act. It says nothing about Aboriginal land rights. It was never intended to say anything about Aboriginal land rights. The original Act dealing with Aboriginal Councils and associations said nothing about Aboriginal land rights. Of course, the amendments proposed by the Opposition tonight say nothing about Aboriginal land rights. Regrettably the speech of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  was totally irrelevant to the subject matter of the Bill. If one intended to be unkind, one could have legitimately taken a point of order on the relevance of the material to this debate and to this Bill. 
The Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act of 1976, when introduced, was intended to provide a suitable vehicle for the incorporation of Aboriginal communities, particularly those in remote areas and traditionally orientated communities which might find difficulties with western European legal concepts such as might be found in the Northern Territory or in the States. It was never intended to provide a separate local government system for Aboriginals. I will give a number of examples of this later. 
I think it is important that honourable members understand what could be the result if a situation arose in which limited numbers of Aboriginals wanted to establish autonomous local government authorities in areas in which States already had established local government authorities or intended to establish local government authorities. The introduction of this legislation is being pursued tonight because State governments and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly have requested amendments to take into account their framework  of  law and their system of local government authorities. Certain amendments have been requested to deal with legal concepts, particularly the concept of altering the register which is held in a State to register titles. There was provision whereby in certain circumstances the Registrar of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations could have gone into a State and directly altered its title system. There is an amendment to deal with that sort of machinery matter. 
There are a number of other procedural amendments. Finally, there are some amendments which take into account the request of the former National Aboriginal Consultative Council to have a right of appeal in certain circumstances against the decisions of the Registrar of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations. There was a view among the Aboriginal people that they ought to have this right of appeal to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs against the decisions of the Registrar in certain circumstances. This Bill gives effect to their request. 
I think that effectively deals with the criticism of the honourable member for Capricornia who implied that Aboriginals were not being consulted about this legislation or about the way in which the concept of Aboriginal Councils and Associations would work. 
It is important that we look at the amendments proposed by the Opposition tonight because they go right to the crux of the legislation. The total Bill would be of little consequence if clauses 4 and 5 were deleted as proposed by the Opposition. It is worth while looking at section 16 of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act. As it was drafted, it was thought that there was provision in section 16 (3) for existing local government authority interests to be taken into account. But that section was inadequate. I shall read that section because it becomes perfectly obvious why this amendment must be proceeded with. Subsection (3) states: 
Before constituting an area under sub-section ( 1 ) as an Aboriginal Council area the Registrar shall take into account any proposal under a law of a State or Territory for the extension of the area of local government. 
That sub-section took no consequence whatever of the fact that a local government area might already exist in that district. What a ludicrous situation. The section as it reads states that we should take into account any proposed extension of local government to that area. But if there is already a local government authority operating in that district it will not be taken into account. That shows how necessary the amendment is. Proposed new sub-section (aa) states: (aa) the area to which the application relates is not, and does not include, an area to which local government extends, or to which it is proposed to extend local government, by or under a law of a State or Territory. 
That proposed new sub-section makes it clear that when the Act is amended the existing rights of local government authorities will be taken into account and not just if there is a proposal to extend local government to that area. The further amendment in clause 5 provides for a system under which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will consult with State authorities. The honourable member for Capricornia implied that only Queensland and Western Australia might be concerned about these amendments. I think it does not behove him, as a spokesman for Aboriginal interests for the Opposition, to criticise when he did not take time to find out the views even of his State Labor Party colleague. I am sure they would have spoken to him. The fact that he did not find out their views implies, of course, that either he did not consult with them or they are not on speaking terms with him. It must be one or the other. The fact of the matter is that if he had approached  Mr Jackson  in New South Wales, who attended the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, or  Mr Payne,  the Minister from South Australia, he would have found out that at that Council meeting they spoke out as strongly as the other States about having their local government interests taken into account. 
If the honourable member for Capricornia had taken the opportunity to meet with his namesake,  Mr Everingham,  the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, he would have found out that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Majority is as concerned about this matter as are his State Labor colleagues. I think that is a very important point. I believe that it behoves him to look to why his State Labor colleagues were as vehement on this matter as were the governments of Queensland and Western Australia; it is very obvious when one reads the particular Act to which I referred earlier. If he reads section 1 1 of the Aboriginal Councils and Association Act he will find a list of matters that a separate Aboriginal Council can deal with in an existing local government area. It can deal with matters relating to housing, health, sewerage, water supply, electricity supply, communications, educational training, relief work for unemployed persons, roads and associated works, garbage collection and disposal, and welfare and community amenities. It is stated earlier in that section that it needs only 10 Aboriginals in a particular area and desiring to form an Aboriginal council to get a request to the Registrar. The fact of the matter is that 10 Aboriginals, say, in Redfern in Sydney, in one of the areas of land that Aborigines occupy, could apply to form a council in the area of the South Sydney Council. 
They could attempt to run all their own local government functions. 
Does the honourable member for Capricornia suggest that the interests of the South Sydney Council should not be taken into account, or that the interests of the New South Wales Government in providing proper local government management should not be taken into account? One could go on. Aboriginals live in many sorts of conditions, many environments. There are people living in fringe dwelling situations, in the middle of cities and in remote areas. Quite logically, those who live in a city like Sydney and want to live in a metropolitan area with that sort of life cannot expect to be able to provide for themselves an electricity supply, their own separate sewerage system or perhaps their own separate garbage collection and disposal. We can imagine what sort of a system there might be in the middle of Sydney if a group of 10 Aborigines took it upon themselves to provide those services and to opt out of any other regulation which may apply. That is quite ludicrous. The State governments have a right to be concerned, and all the State governments have expressed that right. It is perfectly logical to expect the Commonwealth Government to take into account the views put by State authorities. 
I do not wish to go through all the issues raised by the honourable member for Capricornia but I pose this question: I wonder whether he would be so vocal in seeking to have the Commonwealth exercise its constitutional power in relation to Aboriginals in all areas that is what he is looking at if, for instance, we had a Prime Minister of Australia called  Mr John  Bjelke-Petersen. The honourable member for Capricornia has to look logically at the principle in these matters and not make up his mind about whether the Commonwealth should have power in a particular area because he likes the Premier of a particular State. We cannot decide on the division of powers and responsibilities and the way in which good government should proceed if we make up our minds on the basis of whether we like a Premier of one State, his government or otherwise. It appears to me that that is the logic of honourable members opposite who speak in these sorts of debates. 
This item of legislation is important. The Opposition has complained loudly in the past that we have not proceeded towards the implementation of this legislation before this date. It was only a little while ago that questions were being asked about it. It is an urgent piece of legislation and because of the delay that occurred in the proceedings in the Parliament yesterday, quite obviously we are proceeding today with considerable haste to get this legislation through as quickly as possible. Therefore the debate is going to be a little truncated. There will not be the number of speakers on each side of the House who would have liked to have spoken. I know that my colleague and friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder,  had an important contribution that he would have liked to have been able to make in this debate tonight but because of the problems that occurred in this House yesterday and delayed Government business he will not be able to make that important contribution. I think this ought to be noted and his constituents ought to know of the interest that he has in this subject and the importance that he attaches to it. In order that the debate may proceed as expeditiously as possible I also am cutting my remarks short so that this Bill may be passed tonight and these important amendments proclaimed at an early date. 
-This is a very important Bill because it will enable the Government to proceed expeditiously with the implementation of some aspects of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act which have not been capable of implementation to date. I refer particularly to the important provisions which will enable the creation of original trusts to enable Aborigines to hold the title to land. It is very regrettable that there have been technical matters which, to this point of time, have precluded the implementation of this very important aspect of this legislation. We have seen the creation of the councils that were envisaged in the Act to offer advice but the holding of land by the traditional owners, which was the very important conceptual arrangement envisaged in this legislation, has not been able to proceed to date. Therefore, as a supporter of the Government, I welcome the amendments which are designed to enable this legislation to be implemented fully and at the earliest possible date. 
This Bill is, of course, linked with the numbers of important Bills designed to give effect to the implementation of the second Fox report, the proper name of that report being the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  mentioned the general conceptual arrangement into which that report fits and the way in which this legislation relates to that report. It is important, if the general package of Bills relating to uranium mining is to proceed- we have already voted on that in the House tonight- that the amendments to give effect to the protection of Aboriginal interests are carried into legislative form. I therefore welcome the endorsement of the spokesman for the Opposition of support, subject to the qualifications he mentioned, some of which I propose to discuss, to the passing of this legislation as soon as possible. 
There is no doubt that this legislation was a landmark and I am very pleased to be a part of the Government that brought legislation in this form into effect and gave land rights to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. The importance of this legislation, in respect of its machinery aspects, is to give effect to the implementation of the original Bill which was subsequently enacted into law. In summary, those provisions were to enable Aboriginal and claims made to certain land in the Alligator Rivers Region, known as Stage 2, to become part of a national park. The Bill provides also for the lease of Aboriginal land as national parkland. It provides that the common case of a mining interest which has been approved but not granted is covered by this Act. This is a machinery matter to ensure that mining interests are not outside the operations of the Act itself. The Bill is designed to provide for the adjustment of the southern boundary of the Ranger project and to provide for environmental information and inspection rights for the Aboriginal Northern Land Council. 
These matters were specifically covered by  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues in their report. They were seen as being important in the framework of legislation that would permit uranium mining if the Government made the decision to proceed with uranium mining. This Bill is important because it seeks to protect the interests of the Aboriginal people who live in the region and whose rights are affected by uranium mining. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  to the specific provisions that I have mentioned briefly relating to the provision of environmental information and also the inspection rights that the Northern Land Council will enjoy as a result of this legislation. When we give rights to people to go in and to inspect other people's records and activities and when we give them the right, as is to be given under the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill which is part of this cognate debate to be able to go to the court to protect those rights, there is no doubt in my mind that provision must be made to ensure that information that might be gained but which perhaps is not relevant will not be divulged willy-nilly. 
There is no doubt in my mind that, when we provide for a new situation in which information can be obtained- and it is very broad ranging information- and when we provide for a proper forum in which that matter might be reviewed, as we have in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill that we are debating tonight, those people who receive that information are required to act responsibly. Secrecy is a very important part of acting responsibly. If a person can simply divulge information without being held accountable for the consequences of that action, there is no need for responsibility. Information can be made available, that can be quite harmful in a commercial sense to the parties involved, without regard to the proper interests of those involved. 
The legislation proceeds to deal with a number of technical matters which I will also mention. It deletes section 4 (2) (b) which deals with identifying individually Aboriginals who are to hold land. It allows a wider definition of the Aboriginal beneficiaries of land and thus will minimise the delay in the issuing of titles. It provides for the protection of witnesses who voluntarily appear before the Land Commissioner and for the protection of the Commissioner himself so that when he acts in a judicial responsibility and when he administers oaths the people who have been before him will be protected. 
The Bill facilitates the closure of the former Aboriginal Benefits Trust Fund and the opening of the new fund, the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Account. It also takes into account the possible creation of a new Aboriginal land council. Honourable members may recall that in the original debate in this House on this legislation considerable concern was expressed that Aboriginals such as those from Bathurst Island and Melville Island may want to have a separate land council with special advisers to take into account their special interests. The amending legislation envisages that it might be possible to create that separate body and facilitate that action. 
Provision is made also for providing funds so that, before any moneys become available from the source of uranium mining, the land councils will have funds with which to operate. The legislation also facilitates the registration of Aboriginal land in the register used normally for the registration of interests. Those are essentially machinery provisions but they are important. It is usual in important and complex legislation of this nature for amendments of this kind to be made. For various reasons legislation is often rushed through. Because we want to give effect to our good intentions, matters such as this which appear so obvious now can be overlooked. That does not mean that the overall thrust of the legislation must be considered in order to reassess it. Some honourable members have been suggesting that the very nature of the legislation should be reassessed. They have put to the House that there should be other amendments made to the Act. Some of those amendments have been proffered by the mining industry. The fact of the matter is that in relation to the amendments which have not been pursued by the Government the approach has been taken- quite properly, I think- that we have to see how the negotiations proceed between the parties involved in protecting Aboriginal interests and the interests of those who wish to mine and we ought not to pre-empt those discussions and negotiations before we have seen how they work. 
The thrust of the legislation has been inhibited by the machinery matters in operation that we have mentioned. Of course, we are not yet at a point where the possible conflicts that might arise between one form of vested interests and another can be seen with the utmost clarity. I do not think it is yet the time to review the basic thrust of this legislation. It is important that we see how it operates and how it will operate for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. 
In conjunction with the amendments to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Act we are debating the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. This Bill is designed to give effect to the Government's decision accepting the recommendation of the second Fox report that legislative action be taken to enable the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and the Northern Land Council to enforce the environmental protection provisions, particularly by way of injunction, and to compel action and to give the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory a wide definition as to the exercise of its jurisdiction in such cases. 
I do not think any honourable member could complain about the width of these provisions. It ought to be noted that they are wide in their operation and that the Court is given considerable jurisdiction in relation to enforcement and to the remedies that it has available. I guess that that is the expected result of this legislation and that is what the legislation seeks to do. I point out the width of the definition of 'mining operations'. The crux of this legislation is that the mining operations will be capable of review. The definition is made in such a way as to include the operations and activities directly connected with mining. It also includes prospecting, inspection, milling, transportation, storage, construction of mine works and the infrastructure. Some honourable members have suggested that those provisions are somewhat too wide and that they may leave the way open for the Northern Land Council to institute vexatious proceedings. I cannot imagine that a public official would take vexatious proceedings but suggestions have been made that it might be possible as a result of the width of these provisions for such action to be taken. The very nature of the provisions is such that they have to be enforced by a court of law. I believe that this legislation as drafted provides the court with the power to deal with people who take such vexatious proceedings. It is drafted on the basis that the court would be able to deal with the parties involved in a way in which one would expect- by fine, by failing to make orders or in other ways available to courts- to ensure that proceedings are not brought vexatiously but only genuinely, in the belief that the environment is in danger and in need of protection as a result of the mining activity and a breach of the provisions that had been specifically entered into by the parties involved. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The questions that must be considered in the debate on this motion can be reduced to fairly simple terms. I propose to do that if I am permitted and I will deal with the matter fairly briefly. The motion that has been moved in this notice is that a select committee of the House be established to inquire into and report on extending and guaranteeing Aboriginal voting rights and obligations- I emphasise the word 'obligations'- for the Federal, State and Territory parliaments. The fact of the matter is that Aboriginals have voting rights. I suppose that there is no question of extending those rights. The question becomes one of extending obligations. I say with respect to the mover and seconder of the motion that I do not believe they have made out a case that obligations in relation to Aboriginals ought to be extended at this time. Without going into the matter in any detail, I state that my view is that one would not entertain the setting up of a select committee to examine this question unless it was established that there was an important question to be examined and results to be achieved in moving in a certain direction. 
The fact of the matter is that the Commonwealth does provide under the Commonwealth Electoral Act for the enrolment of all Australians as voters except for people who are not permanent residents and the like. Aboriginals are entitled to enrol and, in fact, I believe that they have an obligation to enrol. Section 42 (5) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act quailifies the position in relation to Aboriginals so that they will not be convicted of an offence if they do not enrol. The sub-section states: 
This section does not apply to a person who is an aboriginal native of Australia except to the extent that such a person may, if he so chooses, comply with sub-section ( 1 ) of this section. 
The question we must ask ourselves is whether an obligation to vote which is placed on Aboriginals in all cases ought to be made compulsory. I would not accept that that ought to be the case and I do not believe that honourable members who have spoken in the debate have put that view. The fact of the matter is that Aboriginals have a right to vote in Federal elections. That cannot be questioned. It is also a fact that in recent experience in the Northern Territory, in both Federal and Territory elections, it has been shown that the existing procedures are adequate and that there is a very high degree of awareness amongst members of the Aboriginal population of their voting rights. They are being educated progressively how to exercise those rights. Not only have special courses been run but also has there been a development of the National Aboriginal Conference and its election procedures in which Aboriginals participate. They have a feeling that they are making decisions in relation to their own welfare and community. I think that this familiarises them in the way in which they can participate to an even greater degree in the ordinary elections that take place for Federal, State and Territory parliaments and assemblies. 
The honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  referred to the report in 1961 which dealt with certain problems. In fact, most of those problems have been overcome. A situation exists in which Aboriginals are entitled to vote and that applies right throughout Australia. But it is a voluntary form of voting. I do not think that the honourable member has demonstrated that that system has failed in any respect. He referred to a particular problem in Queensland. My observation on that problem is that the matter of which he complained really related to whether people who were employed for another purpose ought to be endeavouring to enrol Aboriginals to vote. The fact of the matter is that those people were discharged when it was found that they were doing that. But that did not in any way stop them, or any other person if they wanted to do so, soliciting amongst the Aboriginals to get them to enrol on the electoral roll. 
It ensured that as individuals they had the responsibility to undertake the duties for which they were being paid. Nobody could be heard to complain about people fulfilling the obligations of their contract of employment. That is the question. The fact is that those people were free still to encourage people to enrol if that is what they wished to do. In fact they had more time to do that. The West Australian situation, which the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  spent most of his time discussing, may have thrown up certain abuses of the electoral procedures in that State, but the honourable member did not emphasise what ought to be properly emphasised, and that is that what happened was shown to be an abuse of the electoral law.  Mr Justice  Smith overturned the election result and ordered a fresh election. That demonstrates that the procedures are adequate. If it is shown that there is an abuse of procedures in relation to the Aboriginal people, the matter can be taken to a Court of Disputed Returns and the position changed. That was done in this case, and a fresh election was ordered. That deals predominantly with the matters raised by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
-The fact is that a fresh election was ordered. The matters complained of were heard by a Court of Disputed Returns and the matter was resolved. There was a fresh election, about which I have not heard complaints. As the honourable member for Fremantle knows, attempts were made to vary the Act in Western Australia and they failed in the Parliament. 
-That may be the case, but the fact is that the law stands as it is now, and a Court of Disputed Returns upheld the law. If the situation changes, maybe one should look at the question again. However, the motion seeks to establish a select committee to look at this question, even though the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in moving this motion acknowledged that since he gave notice of it, a select committee of the Parliament, of which he and the honourable member for Fremantle are both members, has been established. Amongst the terms of reference of that select committee is an obligation to take evidence, and to inquire into and report upon the present circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people and the effect of policies and programs on them, and such other matters relating to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people as are referred to it by resolution of the House and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  That Committee has a very important brief at the moment in relation to Aboriginal health. As honourable members know, that Committee is pursuing its brief with a great deal of enthusiasm. As the Committee has gone from place to place I think the members of it have become more aware of some of the real problems facing the Aboriginal people. I have, and I hope the honourable member for Fremantle has as well. 
The problems facing those people are not related so much to the exercise of their right to vote or to their capacity to exercise that right, but rather to other questions such as those that the Committee is now considering and those upon which the Committee has already reported. The problem of alcohol and alcohol abuse is a very real one. The problems confronting Aboriginals in relation to their health are real and urgent. The problems in relation to Aboriginal housing and the facilities available to Aboriginal people are real and urgent, and nobody on this side of the House would seek to ignore them. 
The questions we have to look at are whether honourable members opposite have established a proposition that there is something here that we ought to be looking at as a matter of urgency, something that should change our priorities and divert our attention from the very important matters that are now under consideration. I do not believe they have established that. The fact is that the previous reference has taken our Committee into Aboriginal reserves and Aboriginal communities. That, together with all the other inquiries and events that take place, places a pressure on the Aboriginal people, particularly the traditional Aboriginal people who live in outlying communities and have to face the sorts of problems experienced on outstations and the like. At the moment these people are attempting to remove themselves from the pressure that our community puts on them. 
Unless members of the Opposition are suggesting that we ought to make voting compulsory for Aboriginals and assimilate them entirely into our community and abandon the policy of selfdetermination I do not think that is what they are suggesting- what are they seeking to achieve? They are seeking to achieve a second inquiry, taking another lot of members of Parliament into Aboriginal communities, to inquire about voting procedures and the way in which they operate, on top of all the inquiries that are taking place now. That would put at greater risk the Aboriginals who are resisting the sorts of pressures we are putting on them. Quite frankly, 1 personally am not prepared to support that sort of approach, and the Government is not prepared to support a view that this matter is in need of examination at this time. The Government has demonstrated, by the important program it ran in Western Australia in relation to Aboriginal education and participation in voting, that it will react to the matters specifically complained about which can be demonstrated. 
The course run by the State Education Department 's Adult Aboriginal Education Section in Western Australia before the by-election in that State is a good example of the Government's concern. The course was funded by the Commonwealth. I would suggest that if honourable members opposite can demonstrate a need for specific programs, they should make a request direct to the Minister for an extension of that sort of program. There is no need for a select committee or even for the House of Representatives Standing Committee to alter its priorities from the very important questions they are inquiring into now to examine matters about which members of the Opposition who spoke to this motion have established by their own words there is no urgency whatsoever. 
-One of the worst aspects of this whole controversy is the way in which Aboriginal people have been used as pawns. I regret very much that in this debate the Opposition is taking an approach which clearly indicates that it wants to make political points rather than to pursue a course which will benefit the Aboriginal people. When I listen to the sort of speech that I have heard in this debate, when we were at a point where Aboriginals could be removed from being the pawns in a dispute between governments - 
By achieving a successful result rather than pursuing endless controversy! Honourable members opposite, as intelligent members of Her Majesty's Opposition, ought to be able to perceive that if this matter is pursued with endless confrontation between governments the Aboriginal people will not find that there is a short and easy solution capable of immediate implementation. The fact of the matter is that we live in a country which has a written Constitution, in which there are States and in which there is a Commonwealth Government. Whilst the Constitution makes specific provisions for the welfare and benefit of Aboriginals to be the responsibility of the Commonwealth there are many matters of a constitutional nature which have not been determined and there are many aspects of this matter which, if pursued to the final point of confrontation, would end with us in litigation in the High Court of Australia from which there would be no solution and no worthwhile result for the Aboriginal people involved. They would continue to be the pawns. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  delivered a speech with some minor points based upon total misconception. I find the speech exceedingly disappointing and in terms of the benefit of the people whom he holds himself out to be supporting in this exercise. One of the points he made- it was so petty- was that at a meeting of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) with members of the Aboriginal communities the Aboriginal people were left. Presumably the Leader of the Opposition was saying that they were left in the Prime Minister's office by the Prime Minister and those who came at his invitation. There is nothing further from the truth. All the people who were at that meeting, including the Prime Minister, stayed until the conclusion of it. Nobody walked out. Nobody left the Aboriginal people alone. The fact of the matter is- this may be where the Leader of the Opposition is completely ill-ii. formed- that there was a meeting earlier in the day with the Government Members Aboriginal Affairs Committee and at that meeting because there were quorums and divisions-- 
-Called by the Opposition, some Government supporters- there were a significant number present- had to leave the meeting. If the Leader of the Opposition did not understand the forms and the procedures of this House which require us to be here and seeks to make a point out of that and say that we were being impolite or discourteous to the Aboriginal people- those actions occurred as a result of him and his members- I believe there is nothing in him that is worthy in the way in which he is trying to use this issue as a political issue for the benefit of his own Party and for making points which will not be helpful to the Aboriginal people whatsoever. There are many important matters- (  Quorum formed).  I thank the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  who achieved the result of getting many Government supporters into the chamber but none of his own colleagues. The Leader of the Opposition went around his own benches here today and in a determined way solicited all of his members to leave this important debate and to ignore the important questions being raised. Perhaps it was because the Leader of the Opposition did not want to hear the points that were being made in rebuttal - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as you will realise from some of the remarks that passed across the chamber, the speeches that we heard this afternoon from honourable members opposite on this important piece of legislation were, regrettably, negative and unduly carping. Quite frankly, I found them exceedingly disappointing. This is a positive piece of legislation, one mat would have been well served by the Opposition's offering as an alternative positive and constructive proposals of their own, if they had them. But the legislation did not deserve the sort of carping, negative criticism that we heard here this afternoon. The purpose of the legislation is to update and upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service. An effective and efficient Commonwealth Employment Service is required if we are to deal with some aspects of unemployment in our community. The Government has admitted that 
Government Ministers, speaking on the sorts of programs that the Government is pursuing in this area, have made it clear that they regard the upgrading of the Commonwealth Employment Service as an initial and an integral part of the Government's program to overcome some of the problems that we have in our community as a result of massive unemployment. It occurred not just during the term of office of this Government; the great majority of it occurred as a result of the policies and approaches of the previous Government. It cannot be forgotten that it was the policies and initiatives of honourable members opposite that brought about the great bulk of unemployment in this community. The number of unemployed rose significantly during their term of office. There has been an increase in the number since then, and we regard it as regrettable, but the great mass of people in this country who became unemployed, became unemployed at that time. 
This legislation is positive. Its purpose is to update and upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service, to enable it to carry out approved manpower functions, to implement programs and to promote them. It is a Bill which is to put aside the function that the service had initially in 1945, to redeploy ex-servicemen. That is an indication of the age of this authority and the way in which it has had to adapt increasingly to modern day needs. Certainly the sort of legislation that is proposed now is needed to give the Service the twentieth century guidelines that are so essential if it is to fulfil its functions. The Bill is a significant indication of the Government's commitment to overcome the high levels of unemployment that we have in this community, because we regard low levels of unemployment as essential. It is certainly a Bill which acknowledges the width of the Service that we have seen grow in response to demands from the community over the last 20 years or so. 
The organisation has the responsibility of collecting information on job opportunities, collating that information and placing people in positions. In 1977 some 400,000 people were placed in positions through the Commonwealth Employment Service. It provides a system of registration of those who are available for and seeking employment. It provides a vehicle by which labour market training can be pursued and for the administration of the important programs that this Government has initiated. I will deal with them later. It is important to note the programs that have been initiated by this Government and to compare them with the two programs that the previous Government initiated, one of which it put aside in its own term of office because it was found to be totally ineffective. In other words, the ratio of the Government's programs to those of the previous Government is 5 to 1. This Government has performed but, under the previous Government, performance was wanting. 
The specialist functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service also have to be acknowledged and I will spend some time in my address referring to one of them. The Service provides programs for Aboriginals, handicapped persons, migrants, vocational guidance and occupation assistance. The CES also has responsibility for collecting information in relation to the number of people who receive the unemployment benefit. 
This legislation proposes to expand the role of the CES. It proposes to provide the organisation with leadership. The significant parts of this legislation provide first for the establishment, functions and powers of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the widening of those functions and, secondly, for the appointment of a national director and staff for him. Whilst the CES is to be part of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations it will have national leadership as a result of the appointment of a national director, a person who will be peculiarly responsible for giving it that sort of direction that it needs to fulfil its tasks. 
The CES will have the responsibilities for promoting and implementing approved manpower programs. Finally, it will have available to it advisory committees which will be national, regional and local. These committees will assist in identifying problems that the CES experienced not only at the national level but also at regional and local levels. Norgard regarded these matters as being of great importance. This legislation does not seek to implement his recommendations which propose the establishment of a separate statutory authority. I note that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who led for the Opposition on this legislation, expressed doubts whether he would support the view that there ought to be a separate and independent statutory corporation. 
I thought that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  in his very vitriolic address about the Public Service- and it is easy to see that he does not have too many public servants in Wollongong- made the point very clear that he would hold no brief for the Commonwealth Employment Service having a function within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. It has to be acknowledged that - 
-I heard the honourable member refer specifically to bureaucrats. If my understanding is correct, the approach taken by the honourable member was that bureaucrats would be incapable of implementing the sorts of manpower programs that the Government initiated. The fact of the matter is - 
I believe it should be responsible to the Parliament and I am pleased to hear the honourable member saying so because this is the very nature of the legislation. If that is the case, I cannot understand the basis of the honourable member's criticism of the fine Public Service that we have in this community. The fact of the matter is that whilst one could always find imperfections and one could always find difficult areas in relation to the implementation of government policy- we have experienced some of these problems and I propose to refer to some of them in relation to our objective of implementing part of the Norgard report- the great bulk of people employed in our Public Service are very fine people and are not deserving of the sort of criticism that we have heard from the honourable member for Cunningham. 
We have agreed that the Commonwealth Employment Service ought to be responsible to the Parliament. I am one who wholeheartedly supports that proposition. I might be in trouble with some of my colleagues if I refer to some of the statutory corporations that were created by the Opposition when it was in government and say that honourable members can well appreciate the reason why I might take this approach. We know the difficulties that honourable members have from time to time in having representations heeded by Telecom Australia and Australia Post. Without the sorts of advantages that apply when one is dealing with a genuine private enterprise system, one can see there is good reason not to give up the power of the Parliament over the Public Service. It is important that there should be a proper reporting system to the Parliament as is envisaged by this legislation. Certainly I would not like to see an independent statutory corporation fulfilling these responsibilities. I believe that members of Parliament have to be prepared to accept the results of whatever policies we pursue. We have to be prepared to articulate those policies. We have to be prepared to take the responsibility for remedying those areas in which there are defects. I certainly agree that this legislation, in the form proposed by the Minister, is a proper approach having regard to the recommendations of the Norgard report. 
I want to take the opportunity to draw the attention of honourable members to some other aspects of the Norgard report that were not necessarily required to be implemented in a statutory form. The first section with which I wish to deal- Aboriginal employment- was mentioned in a positive way by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and I commend him for doing so. The Norgard report emphasises the problem faced by Aboriginals who are seeking employment. It gives some statistics which I think all honourable members would find quite disheartening. The number of Aboriginals registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service represents 30 per cent of the Aboriginal work force which is conservatively estimated at some 35,000 people. That is not a new problem; it has always been with us. I am not trying to run away from the nature of the problem having regard to the pace at which we can move because of changing attitudes. I refer not just to the wider community but to the attitudes of the Aboriginals themselves who are not in a traditional situation and have not lived in a traditional way. It is not possible, in my view, to change their background, their cultural values and their social and occupational factors at great speed. But it is important that we do as much as we can to assist in overcoming these marked problems. 
The report emphasised that just over 100 positions are available for vocational officers and assistant vocational officers. Generally speaking, the vocational officers and the assistant vocational officers I have met in this area are Aboriginals endeavouring to help their own people. They are endeavouring to change the approach to employment and to change the approach of employers to employing Aboriginals. 
I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to note some of the particular problems pointed up in this report. I am sure that he is giving the utmost attention to the implementation of these recommendations but I point them out once more. I refer to the specific recommendation that travel funds be increased to boost the outreach activities of the vocational officers and the assistant vocational officers. Another suggestion was that the vocational officers and the assistant vocational officers should be relieved of some of their clerical work and responsibilities and given greater administrative support. These seem to me to be very positive recommendations deserving the utmost support from the Parliament. The report also recommended that the staffing in the area which provides employment to Aboriginals should be increased substantially. 
I served on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in the Parliament before last when it reported on special works projects. I was very impressed with the quality of work of the Aboriginal employment service within the Commonwealth Employment Service. I was particularly impressed with the dedication of the officers involved. I would like to see a firm commitment and resolve from us all to give them the utmost support that can be given. I am sure that the Minister, knowing of these problems, has that very much in mind himself and would be pleased to know of the universal support of members of Parliament to encourage greater effort in this area and give those who work in the field greater opportunities. 
One of the aspects which we emphasised in the report on special works projects was the need for the Commonwealth Employment Service to also adopt a changed approach to the employment of Aboriginals with lesser qualifications than might be expected of people joining the Public Service. The very nature of the special works projects scheme was to fund employers, local government authorities and State government instrumentalities so that they would take into their service Aboriginals who would gain experience while employed. I am very pleased that of late the Government has accepted recommendations which now enable the Commonwealth to participate also in these sorts of schemes and to take people in at lower educational levels than would otherwise be the case in order to give them the opportunity to serve in a position and then to take their rightful place in the Public Service. 
I also want to support the suggestions and the recommendations on computerisation in the Commonwealth Employment Service. These initiatives are of the utmost importance. I think that computers will be essential to the labour intensive tasks such as the updating of records, which in itself is essential and in the linking of information that is received in the CES. Such tasks have to be carried out in an efficient way. I know that the Government recognises this need. I think we have an important role to play in encouraging the Government to pursue these recommendations, and to pursue them as quickly as possible. Employees in the Commonwealth Employment Service must be made available to undertake the important tasks of interviewing people, assessing them and ensuring that they are able to be linked to the jobs that are available. The Minister emphasised the very substantial savings in taxpayers' funds that would be gained if the people who were available for employment were able to be linked to the jobs available as soon as possible. These initiatives that the Government sees as being important are being pursued by this legislation. 
The next part I wish to deal with in the Norgard report is the initiatives taken by the Government already to recruit for the CES employment officers who have had practical and personal experience in industry. This was the subject of some industrial disputes a little earlier in the piece. In this House I supported very strongly the Government's initiatives in getting into the Commonwealth Employment Service those people who would bring their wider experience into that area. I made that point very strongly in my speech at the time because I saw it as being an important part of the Government's program in relation to updating the CES. But I want to point out that that is no criticism of the people who are at present employed in the Commonwealth Employment Service. There is no doubt in my mind about the dedication of the employees of the Government who work that Service. I have seen the sort of work that they do. For example, in my electorate, I am very familiar with the work undertaken by the Commonwealth Employment Service office in Parramatta. More recently, I have been very impressed with the activities of the Commonwealth Employment Service office in Ryde. I link those activities particularly to the Government's initiatives in relation to the Community Youth Support scheme. It is in that area that one is able to assess the personal qualities of the officers involved. They are prepared to give of their own time to participate in this important program of the Government to ensure that it works. There is a place for these new employees that the Government needs for the scheme to work, but this in no way should be taken as criticism of those who are presently involved in the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
I have stressed in my address the positive nature of the Government's initiatives. I think that is the very important part of this Bill and of this debate. But the occasion ought not to pass without there being some cognisance of the negative criticism of the Opposition. I wish to make it very clear to honourable members opposite that we have not forgotten the very Utile that was done by them in relation to overcoming the manpower problems that emerged during their term of office. The only scheme initiated by the Labor Government which has remained is the National Employment and Training scheme. The Regional Employment Development scheme about which the honourable member for Cunningham spoke this afternoon was scrapped by the Labor Party in office. It was found to be wantonly deficient and the Labor Party itself recognised that. 
Since then we have seen the modification of that NEAT scheme because we have ensured that it is not just a scheme to put people into expensive university-style courses, but actually to get people into employment where they receive practical training in areas in which they will continue to be employed. We have also initiated the Special Youth Employment Training Program- a very important initiative. We initiated the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. I have already mentioned the Community Youth Support scheme which was also an initiative of this Government. It also initiated the education program for unemployed youth and the relocation assistance scheme. The funding of the National Employment and Training scheme has risen from the 1976-77 appropriation of $36m to the appropriation for this year, 1977-78, of $85m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Following on his statement on the Government's health scheme proposals yesterday, can the Minister assure the 
House that Aboriginals will not be disadvantaged as a result of the proposal to abandon bulk billing for all but pensioners? In particular, can he say how he has ensured that non-pensioner but largely income bereft Aboriginals who are now able to use medical services will not be precluded by any lack of money to meet doctors' accounts, and further, how this proposal will affect Aboriginal medical services? 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether there has been any result yet from the legal action brought in Queensland by the chairmen and the shire councils of Aurukun and Mornington Island? 
-Today I would like to take the opportunity of this Grievance Debate to mention to this Parliament the role assumed by civil marriage celebrants and to express some personal reservations that I have about the role that they have assumed, the manner in which they are appointed and the continued authorisation that they have which does not appeal to be subject to any reasonable review or scrutiny. My objective is to put it to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that this Parliament is of the view that there ought to be some qualification to the appointment of civil marriage celebrants, that there ought to be some more definite view of the role that they carry out in the community and the wider roles that they may assume for themselves, and that those persons appointed ought to be appointed only for a limited period rather than for life, as now appears to be the case. A civil marriage celebrant gains his power to marry people under section 39 of the Marriage Act. Section 39(2) and (3) states: 
The Attorney-General may, by instrument in writing, authorize other officers of a State or Territory or other suitable persons to solemnize marriages. 
An authorization under the last preceding subsection 
may authorize a person to solemnize marriages at any place in Australia or only in the part or parts of Australia specified in the instrument of authorization; and 
is subject to such conditions (if any) as are specified in the instrument. 
It appears that when some people receive that authorisation they enter into a new business venture. Very little public information is available about civil marriage celebrants, but some articles have been written about them. I wish to quote from an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of Tuesday, 11 May 1976 and in particular from one paragraph which describes the civil marriage celebrants and their role. The article states: 
Civil celebrants are a special and rare race. They started in 1973 when the Labor Government put into effect a longstanding legislation for the practice, and have established themselves as an alternative to church and registry ceremonies. 
The article goes on to describe the way in which they carry out their work and states: 
The celebrants are a mixed collection of people who are hardly in it for the money. The fixed fee is $30 a time, for an average of two services a week, which includes travelling expenses, pre-wedding consultations, and clothes. 
They do it because they say they like meeting people and being involved with them in the most personal moment of getting married. 
The article then deals briefly with the way in which civil marriages are being carried out. The only published information I have seen about the number of marriages that the civil marriage celebrants have been carrying out was supplied in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  In question upon notice No. 634 of June 1976, the honourable member asked the then AttorneyGeneral how many marriage celebrants had been appointed in each State and Territory and how many marriages they had performed. He also asked about the criteria for appointment and what information was available regarding the level of fees charged. It became clear that at that point in time some people had not carried out any marriages although some considerable time had passed since their appointment and that other celebrants were carrying out marriages with a considerable degree of enthusiasm which would certainly put to rest the comment by  Mr Parsons,  the acting secretary of the Civil Celebrants Association of Victoria, that they were not in it for the money. For example, a  Mr J.  E. Fuller carried out 789 services between the period of his appointment on 2 August 1973 and the date on which the figures were compiled, 3 1 March 1976. There was also a gentleman - 
-He may not have charged for the services but if he had the amount involved would have approached $22,000 in a period of two years. Another gentleman by the name of  Mr D.  R. Messenger, who was appointed at a later date, conducted 736 civil marriages in a lesser period. 
-My complaint is about the people who gain statutory authorisation to conduct marriages, whose stated objective is that they are not in it for the money and who have turned this business into a corruption of our moral and spiritual values as represented through what I would regard as the legitimate forms- the churches of this country. 
-Of course they charge. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member ibr Dundas will address the chair. 
-The point I raise-I think that it is a very valid point- concerns the character of these people and what they are about. We now have a group of people who receive authorisation under an Act of Parliament to carry out a particular function and who are holding themselves out to perform a number of so-called services which are of a much wider nature and for which they are no doubt seeking funds, although in appropriate cases, as the honourable member has suggested in relation to marriages, they may not charge a fee. A document entitled  Cultural Celebrations in Australia  has been produced by  Mr D.  R. Messenger, who is the gentleman whom I said has carried out 736 marriages. He is a gentleman who, in my view, has set about to produce a series of pagan ceremonies to plagiarise what people regard as legitimate values in our community. For example, I refer to the name giving ceremony. What is a name giving ceremony if it is not meant to take up the christian ceremony of baptism, which has a special significance to those people who hold those very strong and personal beliefs? 
-Of course. What I am saying is that here we have a group of people who, by way of statutory endorsement for a particular civil function, are setting about to use the valid christian service as a basis for getting into a money making exercise for their own personal gain, not because there is any value in it. People would not place a value on a naming service of any sort if they did not believe in baptism and what it means. 
I know that some people have no personal beliefs in relation to death. One has to imagine what significance such people would see in a funeral service. But these same celebrants now hold themselves out as being available to carry out a non-religious funeral service. I do not know what that is. Certainly, I recognise that people who do not have any strong beliefs, and maybe some who do would recognise that perhaps there is a non-religious role in a wake. But I do not see why, other than for the purpose of making money, a group of people should use their statutory endorsement to carry out marriages to get into the business venture of promoting themselves as an alternative to the churches. I do not regard that as being satisfactory. I do not regard it as being a proper use of the authorisation they receive to carry out marriages. I believe that those sorts of people who have evidence on the public record that they are in it purely for the purpose of making money through the sort of services that they are prepared to conduct, not for any of those values that they publicly expressed in the newspapers and articles that I have referred to, ought to be looked at more closely and that some limit ought to be put on the time of their appointment so that we can review the very nature of the sort of role they are carrying out in the community and the wider functions that they are taking onto themselves through the statutory authorisation they have received. 
-I am sure that all who heard the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  speak in this debate this afternoon will acknowledge that, once again, he has spoken from the heart but not with his mind. Clearly, when one listens to the speeches that have been made in this place today by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and the honourable member for Wills and to the speeches that were made yesterday in another place, whose proceedings fortuitously were broadcast, as are the proceedings of this place today, one realises that the issue being pressed by the Opposition is regarded by it as being the principal issue warranting discussion as a matter of public importance. The Opposition put a great deal of emphasis upon the action that this Government ought to take and spoke at great length about the problems with which the Aboriginal people are faced and about the confusion in their minds. I think the debate can be brought down to that very narrow compass. Really only two propositions were put forward by the Opposition. Members of the Opposition said that there is confusion in the minds of Aborigines, that they are concerned about their future, that they do not know where they are going and that there are real problems besetting the Aborigines. The Opposition said that there is one answer to that, that is, the immediate acquisition by the Commonwealth of the land that the Aborigines are occupying in order that we may assert what all of us would acknowledge is in fact a responsibility that we have and perhaps a privilege that we have under the Constitution. But that would not solve the problem. The problem would not disappear; it would not go away. It would be there tomorrow if we acted in that way. The honourable member for Capricornia, by the very fact that he acknowledged my contribution to a previous debate, acknowledged the validity of the point that I made then that there are real consequences that we would have to recognise if we moved in this direction at this time and if we moved in a precipitant way. 
-Admittedly, because we think with our minds. Whilst we have the same feeling in our hearts as the honourable member for Wills, we have to do what is right and what will be for the long term benefit of the Aboriginal people. The fact of the matter is that there would be consequences if we acted in that way and they ought to be acknowledged. There would be a continuing confrontation between governments. For all that honourable members opposite have said about our colleagues in the Queensland Parliament, they have pointed up with the utmost clarity that if we acted the matter would not be finished. Our Queensland colleagues would not lie down and say: 'Scratch our tummies. Everything is all right'. The fight would go on. It would go on in the courts of this land; it would go on in the media. What we have seen to date would not be the end; it would be only the beginning. I do not think our Aboriginal people ought to be fought over in that way. I believe that there is not a case for increasing the distrust and the dislike that some people of different racial origin have for each other. We should bring people together and get greater confidence, co-operation and willingness to work together. In the areas of Queensland where the Aboriginal and nonAboriginal people live together we cannot encourage distrust and dislike of each other. They have to live with each other cheek by jowel. 
Of course, there are other problems of cost which cannot be wiped away. The honourable member for Wills has suggested that bauxite is irrelevant; yet if he reads the speech made yesterday by his colleague in another place,  Senator Gietzelt,  he will realise that  Senator Gietzelt  sees it as a central issue. He would not be happy if we simply acquired the land at Mornington Island and Aurukun at $ 1 an acre. He would be happy only if the mineral rights, whatever they are, also were acquired and taken away from the State Government. The whole concept of the valuation of land acquired by the Crown, in right of the Commonwealth, in this country is that the mineral rights are left in the hands of the States. If they did not remain in the hands of the States a whole new element of compensation would be involved, and that has not been taken into account. That would be not only in regard to this place - 
-There are no precedents for it because it has not been done. The fact of the matter is that if we acted in one place in Queensland under the Act that we have already passed every one of the other 1 4 Aboriginal communities would be in like a shot. We would not be acquiring two places; we would be acquiring the lot. What does that mean in money terms? It means that an enormous amount of land throughout the whole of Queensland would have to be acquired. There are other problems involving schools that presently are run by the Queensland authorities, hospitals that are run and funded through the State Health Department, and other services provided by the State. Does the Opposition say that they should go out and Commonwealth people should be put in to run those sorts of facilities? Is it assumed that we can bring in government authorities from the Northern Territory to offer the same support and services as are offered in that place? What of the application of the general law which under Commonwealth statute we provide even on Commonwealth land? Even if it were handed over to the Aboriginals, this land would have become Commonwealth land. The general Queensland law would apply. 
How are those sorts of arrangements to be worked out? The confusion would be there, the fighting would go on and the Aboriginal people would be merely pawns. For members of the Opposition, quite irresponsibly in my view, to use the Aboriginals as pawns in their political arguments is quite unlike them in many respects. I do not believe that they would want to see the consequences of their action if it were taken in that precipitate way. Of course, it would not be the Opposition that would be taking the responsibility; it would be us as the Government of the day. These problems have to be overcome and we have to act in the interests of the Aboriginal people. We have to look to encouraging good will on the part of all those involved. I acknowledge that good will appears to have been lacking on the part of the Queenslanders, certainly in respect of the notices to quit that were served upon some of the people living in premises at Mornington Island and Aurukun. In my view, that did not exhibit good will and certainly did not encourage a co-operative attitude by the Aboriginal people towards the local government legislation. 
However, one has to look also at some of the other people who are there, whether they are supporters of the Government parties, supporters of the Opposition party, or legal advisers. One has to ask whether they are encouraging good will or encouraging ultimately a breakdown in relationships between two governments that have to work together in order to bring about the result that the Opposition has advocated as being an end result in itself. I suspect that some of those people have been so determined to ensure that this legislation does not work that in those situations they have been offering advice to the Aboriginal people that they ought not to co-operate. If that is the case, and I suspect that it is, then the difficulties that have developed to date are being exacerbated not by Queensland alone but by parties professing an interest in both groups of people. I believe that we need good will from the Queensland Government, we need good will from the Aboriginal people, and we need good will from all those people who advise them. Some of these selfappointed advisers from Victoria, such as  Mr Purcell,  have to encourage this sort of involvement if they are to uphold their responsibility and their interest in Aboriginals. That is my view. 
I believe that the legislation in Queensland must be given an opportunity to work, and the Minister's statement sets out the basis for that. He has made it clear that if it is to work there are still some responsibilities that the Queensland Government must accept. The question of funding has to be clarified. Permanent and full time shire clerks need to be appointed immediately to operate in both places. The co-ordinating committees ought to meet on the settlements and the lease documents need to be finalised and issued. If that sort of good will is offered by the Queensland Government the position of these communities can be secured. If it is not, then I think the end result may well be that we will have to act in the way that the Minister in his statement on 1 1 April indicated might be necessary. 
-I am surprised at the sensitivity of those who do not wish to hear the arguments that I propose to - 
-The point at which I wish to start this debate is the way in which history will judge the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in a short time when it is learnt that he has failed his party. The greatest opportunity he has had to be constructive - 
-The greatest opportunity to contribute constructively to the economic debate of this country faces the Leader of the Opposition later this evening. We have noted over the last few days that in a determined way, outside the precincts of this place, which is the established place for the discussion of important national questions, members of this House and leaders of the Australian Labor Party, at both its national and its State level, have taken the opportunity to criticise and undermine in a negative way the confidence that people may have in this Government. I do not mind if people want to criticise the policies that are pursued by the Government and, justly in their view, to offer constructive comments about the nature of the Government of this country, but it is another matter, at a time when there is not an election campaign under way, to undertake the organisation of mass rallies, to harangue crowds and to set about to undermine people 's confidence in established institutions and law and order and to undermine their attitude to someone else 's property and person. 
I believe that, by the very nature of the speeches that were made, by the very nature of the provocative advertising in the Press and by the very nature of the environment which was created, large numbers of people felt compelled to act not in a law abiding way but in an emotive way towards people against whom they had no complaint whatsoever. When we look at the nature of the events leading up to these rallies last weekend we find that they were not something spontaneous, they were not put together without thought or preparation; we find that there was a detailed involvement and planning in a determined way to bring together the largest group of people that was possible and to provide for the Leader of the Opposition a forum at which he could vent his spleen against the Government. In the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  yesterday the following advertisement appeared: 
Protest against the Fraser Budget. 
Join Bill Hayden and Neville Wran in the fight - 
I emphasise the words 'the fight'to protect your living standards. 
Rally 12.30 p.m., Today. 
Sydney Town Hall Square. 
This was not something innocent; it was put together deliberately and sponsored by the Australian Labor Party. The advertisement was authorised by J. P. Ducker, the Secretary of the Labor Council of New South Wales and G. F. Richardson, General Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party. People would think that if it were only the advertisements that brought these crowds together there might have been some spontaneity involved, but we find the Premier of New South Wales was associated with the arrangements and the organisation and we find that State officials were deliberately encouraged to leave their employment and to make themselves available. 
In the Queensland Press a similar arrangement was undertaken by the trade union movement encouraging people to leave their work and walk off their jobs, and encouraging waterside workers to call strikes and stop work meetings. They were not asked to come in any spontaneous way but they were encouraged to come because this might be the time to have a good rort around town. In Queensland the following advertisement appeared in the  Courier-Mail: 
The Queensland Branch of Australian Public Service Association requests all Members to attend the Budget Protest Meeting to be held between 3-4 p.m. today in King George Square. 
It was authorised by the Secretary. The Queensland Division of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations similarly urged all Australian Government employees to attend the protest meeting. So we see the sort of organisation that went into these rallies. They were not of a spontaneous nature. The Labor Party and the trade union movement deliberately set about to organise an environment in which a number of people experienced in haranguing crowds could build people up to feel that they have lost something, that they have to take some further action or, in the words of advertisement, that they have to fight. Do honourable members think that that is the way in which people ought to behave in this country, that it is the way in which the alternative government, as the Opposition holds itself out to be, ought to behave? 
People were brought into the streets, and they unleashed violence and caused malicious damage to property. Who are the characters involved in this scenario? Of course, one of them happened to be the Leader of the Opposition. He does not seek to hide and say that he was not associated with the rally. He admitted that in a personal explanation here today. Also present were the National  President  of the Australian Labor Party, the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania; the State  President  in New South Wales,  Mr Ducker;  various trade union leaders; and of course the Premier of New South Wales. These were the guilty men. These were the culprits. These were the people who brought together a crowd of people whom they could incite and harangue. 
They did not sit down in a dispassionate way, as we do in this House, to examine each other's arguments and to give weight and credit to them. These people, in language that one could only describe as innuendo, half-truth and exaggeration, set about to undermine the credibility of the Government- I admit that they are entitled to do that-and to create an environment in which people would feel that they had to do something more. This is what happened. Let us look at some of the statements made by  Mr Hayden  and see whether people would be harangued by them and feel concerned. He said that it was a brutal Budget- not so much a Budget but a catalogue of vindictiveness against Australians. This is the half-truth of which I was speaking. Nobody knows whether this is true, but he said that by 1980 this country will have the unparalleled post-war experience of one million people unemployed and we cannot tolerate that. These are sorts of statements, based upon half-truths and innuendo, are not worthy of the Leader of the Opposition. In an interview on  PM  last night he said: 
It is a demonstration or the spontaneous feeling- 
We know about the way in which it was orchestrated- of resentment, alienation, disaffection within the community. It first of all serves a very important purpose in our society- it allows people to let off steam, - 
So much for letting off steam when they are encouraged to go out in the streets- and is less harmful than some alternatives that happen in other societies. 
I do not know what he was really alluding to there. He went on to say: 
But secondly, it looks as though it will be the beginning - 
He did not say it would be the end- of a movement that will expand rapidly, a movement of disenchantment 
Those are the words of the man who went out into that sort of environment and made those sorts of comments. I think they did him a grave disservice. 
The Premier of New South Wales described the Budget as the 'harshest, most spiteful, meanest economic lesson in living memory'. According to the  Daily Telegraph,  he told the crowd that their presence reflected the revulsion to the Budget of millions of Australians. He said: 
We would be nothing less than Australians were we not here today protesting. 
I heard the Deputy Premier of Tasmania this morning speaking on the program  AM.  I think anybody who heard that radio broadcast would have been personally offended when he said: 
I'll make two prophecies. One, the situation is going to get worse and secondly, because I 've got faith in the people of Australia and I really do. My second prophecy is this, that as soon as the people really learn to understand the impact of this Budget, my prophecy is this- they '11 get rid of the (expletive deleted). 
Those are the sorts of comments that these people were making. I understand that at another meeting in Adelaide the same sort of haranguing speech was made, with the same sort of incitement, by an honourable member who will follow me later in this debate today. Following that incitement, damage occurred at a number of offices of honourable members of this side of the House. One does not say that the damage was directly related to the incitement. I do not suppose it was in the sense that he said, 'Go out and throw a brick through their windows '. I do not suggest that the honourable member said that, but it did not happen on the night of the Budget, it happened after the haranguing of crowds of people in places like Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane. 
The direct and indirect consequence of these efforts is lost productivity to this country. There were 129 arrests of people in Brisbane and 10 arrests in Sydney. The Stock Exchange was stormed. Innocent people were scared stiff and worried for their personal safety. Doors were kicked in, glass was broken, fittings were torn off the walls, boards were ripped away from their proper places and spray paint was painted over their walls. One would think that they came in a spontaneous way, unprepared, but that was what happened. I want to quote the comments of a  Mr Maher  as they appeared in the Melbourne  Sun Pictorial.  The comments give one some feeling for those who were at the butt of this exercise. I admit that the organisers have separated themselves from the exercise. They have said: 'We do not see ourselves as being responsible. We really did not mean it to happen quite this way. We are in some way innocent'. I have heard all those sorts of comments in court from many guilty men. The fact of the matter is that as a result of this exercise people's property was damaged and individuals were hurt. Let me read the comments from the Melbourne  Sun: 
Make the rich pay' was spray-painted on the Exchange walls. One of the stock operators,  Mr Bob  Maher, grappled with demonstrators at the entrance and was hit several times on the head with a pole. 
I'd have hated to see it if some of them got inside,'  Mr Maher  said. 
Some of them looked murderous. They were reaching inside with their banners and their fists. The harder they pushed, the harder we pushed back. ' 
One policeman was hit by a garbage can thrown by a demonstrator and another was bitten on a knee. 
Is this the sort of catalogue of personal damage and damage to property for which members of the Labor Party wishes to be responsible? Of course they do not wish to be responsible after the event. They disown the exercise. The Premier of New South Wales has said: 'I am sorry'. Quite clearly, when people set out on a path like this they cannot just say that they were in no way responsible and are terribly sorry for what was done. 
As the  Australian  editorial of today points out, we have a lot to lose as a nation when people are encouraged to give up their work, to not involve themselves in their employment, to lose some of their wages and to go out into the streets. When that happens we lose productivity as a nation; our advance is put behind. It is very hard to understand the reasoning of those who, knowing that this Parliament is the proper place for debate to occur, take the matter outside this forum. I believe that the judgment of the people will leave the Labor Party dispirited and distressed. The people do not like this sort of conduct; they do not like the rule in the streets. They prefer the rule of this nation to take place in this Parliament by way of discussion and reasoned argument. Yet even now members of the Labor Party are preparing for their next onslaught in the streets. They have not learned their lessons. In Melbourne they are planning - 
All imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I also refer you to pages 36 1 and 4 1 7 of the 1 8th Edition of May's  Parliamentary Practice,  which states that during the course of any debate certain matters cannot be debated which reflect upon a member of the House. I claim that it is a reflection on me, as a member of the Labor Party, to impute motives as the honourable member for Dundas is doing. I ask for your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I am a member of the Labor Party and I feel that I am affected. 
-I am sure that after I have finished speaking each member of the Labor Party could dissociate himself by personal explanation. I would hope that each member of the Labor Party would personally dissociate himself from the meeting that is being organised for tomorrow and encourage all those people who are being asked to go out on strike and to give up their time and their wages to go back to work and to carry out their job of employment. I challenge each member of the Labor Party to publicly dissociate himself from those organised rabbles. 
I intend to speak to clause ( 1 ) of the proposal to establish a joint select committee to inquire into and report on the provisions and operations of the Family Law Act 1975. As has been mentioned already by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  this Act has operated for some  2lA  years. It came into effect and its formal operation commenced on 5 January 1976. 1 was one who, along with many members of this House, took an intense interest in the passage of that Bill. I noted from the debate that took place in another place that it was presumed that, because on the last occasion the parliamentary committee was constituted only of members of the Senate, they had a greater and more intense interest and as a consequence, as  Senator Button  commented, had a more informed debate. I must question that statement. 
I very much welcome this proposal and particularly the fact that the committee will be bipartisan, not only as between the political parties that are represented in the Parliament but also as between the two Houses of Parliament. At a later point I will discuss the actual composition of the committee, but I think it is important to note that the members of the House of Representatives will be involved in this discussion and consideration of the provisions and operation of the Family Law Act. I welcome the terms of reference. They are exceedingly wide. Clause ( 1) (a) says that we are to inquire into and report upon the provisions and operations of the Act. Later on it says that that is not to qualify it but simply to flesh out the nature of matters that might be looked at. Whilst I welcome some guidance, I do not think that this in any way restricts the operations of the committee in looking at the wide operation of the Act and covering the important matters mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I must say that if he looked through my notes for this address he would find some emphasis on a number of views that we have in common. 
Specificaly, sub-paragraph (vii) of the resolution says that costs of proceedings under the Act are to be looked at. That was one of the matters mentioned by the honourable member. Delay is another matter that we had in common for discussion. I believe that delay is very much a matter at which this committee ought to look. Subparagraph (iii) deals with the organisation of the Family Court and the conduct of its proceedings. I would have thought that delay was a subject that could be looked at very properly under that heading as well as under the general provisions. Counselling was another matter mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Sub-paragraph (vi) mentions the services provided by counsellors attached to the Family Courts and approved voluntary marriage counselling organisations. I do not see why the full role of counselling could not be looked at under those provisions. 
Other aspects need to be looked at. I understand that it is proposed to move an amendment later on to this resolution and I indicate my general support for it. Whilst I accept, in general terms, that the committee would have an ability to look at this matter, for the same reason as we have detailed other matters that ought to be looked at I support the general proposition that the committee ought to look at the effects of the Family Law Act on the nature of marriage and the family. I believe it is important when considering an Act that goes under the title of Family Law Act and has such a marked effect upon marriage as an institution and the family, which are very important to our society and which are the basis of our society, that we know the effects of this legislation upon marriage and be prepared to act with courage if we find that it has a detrimental effect. I am not trying to pre-judge that issue. All of us ought to be prepared to look at it because we regard it as being a fundamental question and we want to know if the Act is not operating to support the family structure that we regard as so important. 
The Minister mentioned really only two matters as constituting the reasons for a review of this Act at this time. He mentioned specifically the wide expectation that conduct of the parties would not be examinable in proceedings under the Family Law Act. Whilst many people thought that by removing the traditional fault principles under which our Family Law Act had operated previously we might be able to relieve the court from examining the domestic affairs of the parties to a marriage, I was not one who supported that view. I must say that my view has been borne out in part by the very fact that the Minister referred to that wide expectation and indicated that it has not been met. 
In the ancillary matters that are looked at by the court many important matters have to be looked at. The nature of the family situation when you are dealing with custody of children becomes an important matter. I do not know how you can remove the pain and suffering that people experience when a marriage breaks down and when children are to be left, at least by one of the parents. I do not know how you can simply say: 'We are not going to look at these things. They are not going to be consequential upon the breakdown of a marriage.' The Minister mentioned the success of the counselling provisions. My electorate is served by the Family Court in Parramatta. Those who have looked at the experience of the Parramatta Court have indicated that they regard the counselling that has been undertaken in that court as being admirable and constituting an example that other Family Courts might follow. I think that there is a need to consider whether throughout Australia counselling is being as effective as some of us in the western suburbs of Sydney believe the counselling efforts in Parramatta have proved to be. 
I take this opportunity to deal not with the specific legal matters that the Family Law Council has said require review- I draw the attention of honourable members to the reports of the 
Family Law Council because I think that they highlight many important dilemmas, some of a legal nature and some of a more practical nature, associated with this legislation- but with some very practical aspects of the legislation that I believe this Committee when it is set up will have to look at. The incidence of delays is one factor that has been mentioned. I would like to relate that specifically to a matter that I raised in a debate on the Family Law Act in this Parliament on a previous occasion, that is the consequence of delay, and the consequence of delay linked with the fact that the dissolution of marriage and the ancillary matters were separated by this Act so that the dissolution could take place at an early date and the ancillary matters could be looked at at a later point in time, instead of being linked to be solved by the Court in one fell swoop. Some people believed that this would be very desirable and would have desirable consequences, and that for all sorts of reasons it would remove much of the pain and suffering arising from the dissolution of marriage. They are the sorts of matters to which I referred earlier in my speech this evening. 
The fact of the matter is that the delay is now so long in some of the Family Courts that a situation is emerging where people will be divorced- that is, the marriage will have been dissolved- and all the rights that go with marriage including the right of the widow to bring an action under the Testators Family Maintenance Act can very easily be lost if the procedure in relation to ancillary matters has not been concluded. The fact of the matter is that it is possible for a party to divorce proceedings- say the husband- with some considerable assets to die and for the ancillary matters that might otherwise have to be dealt with to lapse with the death of that party. The wife would thereby not be able to get an order for the handing over of assets or for maintenance, both of which would secure her position, and she would lose because of the dissolution of marriage, the rights that she would have had under the Testators Family Maintenance Act. If there are no delays that problem probably does not arise. But the fact of the matter is that there have been delays and the widows who might have had those rights could have lost them. I do not know of any particular examples of that having occurred to date but I believe that it would be a most undesirable consequence to flow from delay. Even more so, I believe it is one of the undesirable consequences to flow from the separation of these two important actions. I refer to the dissolution of marriage and the completion of all the aspects that ought to be completed in relation to ancillary matters; that is, custody, maintenance and the disposition of property. 
In addition, I believe that this Committee will have to look at the reasons for the delay. Some people might imagine that delays occur simply because the courts are dithering, the legal profession is involved and so on. But we have to look at the efforts that have been undertaken by the Government to set up a court structure capable of dealing with the volume of business that is coming before it. There has been the appointment of a very large number of judges. The Family Court is probably the largest court in Australia. It is larger than any of the Supreme Courts, in terms of the number of judges who are part of it. There is the considerable cost of maintaining the Court. Judges do not come cheaply. All their staffs, their tipstaves, the court reporters and the cars that have to pick up the judges and run them to and from court and so on do not come for nothing. The fact of the matter is that we have a very expensive court structure. We have to bear in mind the cost of appointing additional judges. One of the reasons why the Court is bogged down in dealing with ancillary matters is that the courts of petty sessions in the various States which previously assisted in concluding many such matters and which are not such an expensive court structure, have been removed from the system. Parties are entitled as of right to take whatever aspect of their family law matter that they wish to the Family Court. There are no matters that can be divested to the more inferior courts, as the courts of petty sessions are called in the various States. 
Some other important questions also have to be looked at. Some of them have been thrown up in papers that have been produced by the Women's Electoral Lobby, for instance. The subject of whether the courts ought to be open or closed is one example. I know that it is a very vexed question and that people are very concerned about privacy. Whilst privacy can quite clearly be maintained even in an open court structure, I believe that very serious anomalies can arise in the orders that might be made if courts are able to operate in secret. I have had numbers of complaints made to me by parties who believe that they are genuinely aggrieved because people have not been able to come into the courts and listen to the determinations made. They do not want their family affairs broadcast through the Press. I think that sort of publicity in newspapers can be effectively stopped by legislative action. I think the parties who have come to me genuinely believe that the judges would be more conscious of the wider public eye that would be on them when they make their decisions if they were not able to closet themselves with only the parties and their legal advisers. 
These are very important questions that I believe this Committee will be endeavouring to resolve. Many matters of this sort are exercising the minds of people in the wider community. I think it is very important that a parliamentary committee will be able to undertake this examination with the son of expert advice that will be available to it. For this reason, subject to the one qualification that I have mentioned in supporting an additional term of reference, I strongly support clause ( 1 ) relating to the appointment of a select committee to examine the Family Law Act. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) How much did the Government pay to the National Youth Council of Australia in the years (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
For what programs were the individual payments made. 
What are the names and ages of all members of the Youth Council of Australia National Executive and its Division Committee Chairmen. 
What organisations do the persons referred to in part (3) represent. 
What are the names of all the constituent members of the National Youth Council of Australia and what sum did they individually receive from the National Youth Council of Australia during the years referred to in part ( 1 ). 
I respect the way in which the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  approaches and prepares his speeches. The first point that he made related to the levels of payment of unemployment benefit. To deal with the sorts of comments he made requires a different type of debate. Undoubtedly if we were in the same position as the Senate with its Estimates committees which would enable us to dig more deeply into these aspects in all probability we would come up with a better understanding of the nature of the sorts of figures that he has offered to us tonight. I am not able to vouch for the accuracy of the figures that have been presented nor am I able to vouch for the inaccuracy of the figures that the honourable member for Bonython offered. 
I am not one who likes to use the sorts of terms that the Opposition accuses honourable members on this side of the chamber of using. I find them quite offensive. I accept that the broad and large number of people who receive unemployment benefit are eligible to do so. However, I know, as I think other honourable members know, of particular examples which indicate that some savings can be made in the proper administration of welfare services. In the same way we are called upon to admit honestly that in the taxation field there is a need to have an equitable, an appropriate and a tight system of administration. We may find need for reform or find that some schemes enable people to reap advantages. Similarly, where people have been able improperly to receive unemployment benefits, we need to have a system that is capable of catching those people who take advantage of our welfare systems. I do not think that anybody can logically disagree with that, although the very nature of the way in which we approach these matters demands some sensitivity particularly for the people who are in the unfortunate position of having to need welfare payments. 
Similarly the thoughtful contribution from the honourable member for Bonython in relation to the area of research is one which I think all honourable members ought to note. We are in a changing world. We will see demographic changes in Australia which will necessitate a much more fundamental review of our welfare systems. Unfortunately the contribution of the honourable member for Bonython to this debate was somewhat unique. It is very easy to come into this place with a shopping list- a series of requests and in some respects itemised needs- to present them, accuse one's opponents, in this case people like myself, of being callous and heartless, to suggest that we are not interested in the needs of people, to demonstrate, merely by anecdotal evidence, that there is a person with a particular need and therefore develop a class of people who, whether or not they have a need, believe that they are entitled to benefit from a particular program of government. I do not believe that this sort of approach is good enough. I believe that greater regard has to be had to the needs and the aspirations of those who have to pay the welfare benefits- the taxpayers. I think that they demand that we look responsibly at the welfare programs that we undertake in Australia and set about reaching the needy people as distinct from those who are able to get in on the act. Responsible decisions will have to be taken. We cannot go on in the way in which we have by simply expanding programs on the basis of the sort of anecdotal evidence that is given. 
I heard the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  tonight arguing about principles in relation to welfare payments, equality of opportunity and need. Nobody would disagree with those sorts of principles. The honourable member went on to refer to principles. He really did not apply the principles but used them as a basis for arguing for a much wider welfare system than the one we have. He accused this Government of breaching the sort of principles about which he spoke. I did not believe that that has been the case. I believe that we have been looking at the nature of the programs themselves and developing the areas of need to a greater extent than previously has been the case. The honourable member for Batman was very critical of the oft-stated view that Australia is one of the most egalitarian societies. I will deal with that matter in the short period that I have available to me. I think that we are one of the most egalitarian societies. I think that there is clear evidence of that. It ought not to be overlooked. The honourable member called for more research and was critical of the extent of the material available. 
As a result of the decisions of the Government that was in office for 23 years we saw the development of some of the largest and most voluminous material quantifying poverty in Australia through the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. That, of course, was an initiative of the McMahon Government through the auspices of a former member of this House,  Mr W.  C. Wentworth. I would like to refer particularly to the report in the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty dealing with the economic circumstances of the poor. It is a very interesting article in the 'Consumers and Client Series' by  Dr Podder  of the University of New South Wales. The paper examined statistics from a survey of consumer expenditures and finances in the years 1966 to 1968. According to the honourable member for Batman that was one of the worst periods- it was during the 23 years of Liberal government- and one in which we treated our poor in a most harsh and callous way. If the honourable member is to be believed that would have been one of the most disadvantageous periods in which to examine these sorts of matters. It is useful, I think, to examine some of the headings which  Dr Podder  gives. We can deal with these matters only briefly in a 10- minute speech. He dealt with the 'Shape of Poverty in Australia', the 'Inequality of Income and Wealth', the 'Diffusion of Wealth and Debt over Income Ranges' and 'Poor People as Consumers'. Essentially he indicated something which I think ought to be looked at in greater depth. He said that it is the total wealth that needs to be looked at when examining poverty and not just the question of income. I acknowledge that there are particularly needy groups of people in the community-  Dr Podder  referred to them- such as Aborigines and the unemployable as distinct from the unemployed who need to be looked at as unique groups in the community. In the broad areas we need to come to grips with the total situation of the people who are claiming welfare benefits. We need therefore in this area to remove all the highly emotive language and all the value loaded speeches and to look at the nature of the conclusions to which  Dr Podder  came. Wealth is an important factor. Let us look at one of the conclusions at page 37.  Dr Podder  had this to say: 
With respect to the distribution and redistribution of household incomes, the main finding is that, of the two instruments of redistributing income, namely, income tax and government cash benefits, the latter is far more redistributing than the former. Government cash benefits redistribute income towards greater equality by transferring a substantial amount of income to the families in the very low income ranges. It was found that benefits are given to low income families mostly irrespective of socio-demographic characteristics. We have seen that the degree of inequality of incomes is diminished by the same extent as income tax when imputed rent from owner-occupied houses are added to original family income. This shows disproportionately high home ownership among the families in the lower income ranges. 
I think that this is the important factor in relation to the total wealth concept and the people who are poor in our community. The report continued: 
The distribution of wealth is found to be much more unequal than the distribution of disposable income. However, the inequality of wealth-holding in Australia seems to be significantly lower than the inequality in the USA and UK. 
On pages 52 and 73 of the report the emphasis is on total wealth rather than income. In considering programs as a Government and as a Parliament we have to look at need not with a broad brush approach adding a little to the lot of everybody who happens to be a welfare beneficiary but, as has been done in this Budget, we have to be prepared to look much more conscientiously at the needs of people. Instead of increasing broadly across the range of welfare benefits, we have to develop specific programs to meet those needs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In this important discussion of the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, I take the opportunity of pointing out to the Committee the very positive advances effected in very difficult times by a very competent Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and by a government that has demonstrated its concern and compassion for the needs and welfare of Aboriginal people. I spoke earlier this evening in the discussion on the estimates for the Department of Social Welfare. I mentioned in the general comments that I made in that area the different needs of Aboriginals and the fact that one cannot apply the normal sorts of criteria for determining the way in which welfare requirements and community development needs of Aboriginal communities can be accommodated. 
It is disappointing to me to have to follow the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  when he merely sees the welfare of Aboriginals in terms of the provision of funds and the provision of such funds in greater amounts. I do not deny that there are important needs that cannot be met by funding but I think in this area, as much as in every other area, the Government has to be responsible in the way in which it approaches its allocation of expenditure. There can be no justification for criticism of a department or a Minister simply on the basis that, in relation to the total amount of money allocated for a particular department, a small amount of money is not spent during the year in which it was appropriated. Such money is not just simply frittered away for the purpose of ensuring that the Department can show that it has spent every penny which it has actually received. I have not heard of such an irresponsible approach from any member on either side of the House. The sort of approach that has been offered is simply to spend the money that is allocated so that it appears that the department concerned has some sort of compassion or concern. If it is not possible to spend the money, of course, it would be quite irresponsible to spend it. 
Also, he was rather critical of the significant increases in funds made available in this Budget for housing. It ought to be noted that a total of $ 120m has been allocated to the various areas of activity involved. That represents a total increase of $10m over the expenditure for 1977-78, or a most significant increase of 9. 1 per cent. The total appropriation for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is to be $1 15.589m and, of course, additional sums are to be spent in other areas, such as this year through the Northern Territory Government, for the provision to Aboriginal communities of such essential services as water supply and sewerage. Previously, these activities had been funded directly. The underlying theme in the programs for last year, and again for this year, is the preparation for, and the support of, self-mangement by Aboriginals and Aboriginal communities. The proposed expenditure will be made to the greatest degree possible in consultation with the Aboriginal people. That fact ought to be acknowledged. It is an important part of the total program that we are pursuing. 
A special effort to assist Aboriginal housing has been made. I do not think that can be quibbled with or criticised in the miserable way that the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  attempted to criticise it. This year an additional $5.24m, representing an increase of 1 5 per cent, is to be spent on housing. Direct grants to Aboriginal housing associations will be up by $3.1m, representing an increase of almost 23 per cent. That involves Aboriginal communities and Aboriginal people spending money for themselves and using the people from their own associations to meet their housing needs. Grants to State housing commissions are up by $lm, or almost 10 per cent. The allocation to Aboriginal hostels is up by $700,000, or 13.2 per cent. An additional $350,000 is to be provided for the Aboriginal Loans Commission, to enable tenants in Aboriginal housing associations to purchase their homes. These are important advances that ought to be recognised. One cannot quarrel with them or be critical of them. They represent meaningful advances at a time when it is most difficult for the Government to find the necessary funds. It is a measure of the Government's concern and compassion that in this area, where there are needs- acknowledged I believe by all members of the Parliament- there have been such significant increases. 
Some criticism was offered by the honourable member for Capricornia of the Government's decision to abandon the housing panel. Although there have been undoubted contributions made by the panel, in terms of the quality of architectural design, in assisting Aboriginal housing associations to meet their needs, it must be acknowledged that that assistance has been as a result of the capacity and ability of the people who have been employed to provide that supportthe architects that have been employed by the panel- directly in the Aboriginal communities. These have been the people who have brought the consultation that is necessary, and who have enabled the Aboriginal people to participate in designing homes that will meet their needs. 
The honourable member for Capricornia was critical of the Government's decision, which I believe was a proper decision, to retain the services provided in the Aboriginal communities- not the people employed in Canberra but the people on the ground in the communities with the necessary expertise, and whom the Aboriginals had consulted. That point should be acknowledged. The criticism by the honourable member for Capricornia of the decision to retain the architects was quite unfounded. If we look at the very nature of the justification for the panel, it is they who have been making the important contribution, a contribution that will be available to the communities in the future. 
I was very disappointed in the criticism by the honourable member for Capricornia of the Community Development Employment program. I would be very interested to read the comments of the International Labour Organisation in that respect. Honourable members opposite who have a copy of them might care to make it available. I would be disappointed if that body had failed to recognise the demands of the Aboriginal communities to participate in this very important program. Those members of this Parliament who have had the opportunity to visit remote Aboriginal communities where unemployment benefits are simply paid to the community, and there are no job opportunities- as there can never be, in view of the nature of the community- have found that to do that without a corresponding form of community development function has been destructive of the morale of the people and of their ability to develop and maintain their community. Members of both the Government Aboriginal Affairs Committee and the House of Representatives Aboriginal Affairs Committee have been to numerous communities which have pleaded for the opportunity to participate in this important program. They have recognised that to have people working in their own community, performing the services and functions that the community needs and using their spare time in a constructive way, can produce benefits that are very worth while and that fulfil an important community role. 
I am one of those who believe that this initiative has been so successful that it could well be examined with a view to seeing whether it could have broader application. I do not care what the ILO has to say in this respect. I do not believe that it has any concern for, or knowledge of, the welfare of the Aboriginal people, or for some of the destructive elements that have caused this unique scheme to be developed in consultation with Aboriginals. One should acknowledge that the scheme is in operation in only those Aboriginal communities which have asked for it. 
Finally, I commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs upon the development of the new training programs which are being funded in this Budget. These new initiatives in the training area will have great potential for the development of Aboriginal people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs keeping in touch with the Northern Land Council concerning implementation of procedures for obtaining a decision on the proposed Ranger agreement? What is the current position? 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
How many marriage celebrants have been appointed in each State and Territory. 
How many marriages have been performed by each celebrant since 3 1 March 1976 or the date of appointment. 
For how many marriages has each celebrant reported charging no fee or a reduced fee. 
Have the criteria used for determining the suitability of appointees been varied since the answer given to question No. 634  (Hansard,  4 June 1976, page 3103); if so, in what respect. 
5 ) Are celebrants permitted to charge additionally for expenses including transport costs over and above the standard fee prescribed in the Fifth Schedule of the Regulations under the Marriage Act. 
My question, which is on a substantive matter, is addressed to the Prime Minister and is subsequent to a number of petitions I have presented to the House concerning human rights in the Soviet Union. Will the Prime Minister inform the House of the Government's attitude towards the Soviet Union's attempts to deny the rights and liberties of those of its citizens wishing to exercise the democratic rights of free expression and peaceful dissent? 
-Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications intend to reduce the funds of the Australian Broadcasting Commission by 1 /365th for every day that it remains off the air so that ABC management will be under the same commercial constraints as any entrepreneur which is out of action as a result of a strike? 
-by leave-The matter that I wish to draw to the attention of the House is of great importance to the Parliament and its committees. It concerns the reporting by the Press of proceedings of parliamentary committees. On 8 February, the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act held public hearings in Canberra, the principal witness appearing before it being the Attorney-General's Department. 
On the following day, 9 February, when the Committee was also meeting in Canberra, a number of newspaper reports of the proceedings of the previous day were brought to the Committee's attention. These articles, instead of reporting what actually had been said to the Committee, under sensationalised headlines such as 'Maintenance for women "must go" ', selected complaints made by members of the public to the Attorney-General and then represented them as being endorsed by the Department. This of course was not the case, but nevertheless the  Daily Telegraph,  the  Australian,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  and other newspapers elsewhere in Australia created a dangerously false impression of the Department's submission. Those reports were in fact blamed for an event in Melbourne whereby a group called the Women's Revolutionary Guerilla Army threw a brick through the Attorney-General's Department's Office window. It may well have been more serious. In addition each newspaper contained a statement that the Committee's deliberations would be over a period of some three years. 
With the concurrence of the Committee I wrote to the editors of the  Australian,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Daily Telegraph  saying that the Committee was concerned to ensure that the public obtain a balanced view of the evidence being taken by the Family Law Act Committee, and offered its co-operation in ensuring that this was possible. It was not until the weekend that my attention was drawn to an editorial that appeared in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  of Friday, 9 February, which stated: 
The number of type of complaints to the Federal Attorney-General's Department about the Family Law Act are only a shadow of the real extent of public disquiet about this controversial law. 
Women in particular are concerned because they feelwith justification- that the Act takes away any protection they may have had under the old divorce laws. 
Indeed it often seems that the only ones to benefit from the Act are people who change partners like ordinary people change their underwear. 
The Act has now been in force for three years and the thought that it will take another three years to examine its impact on the community is a little disturbing. 
The Federal Government seems to be bent on establishing records for the speed with which it pushes through legislation. 
But it would do well to speed up its review of the Act by the Federal Attorney-General's Department and repeal the Family Law Act if it has, in fact, been a flop. 
I do not wish to detain the House, but honourable members will recognise the inaccuracies of fact and the unfounded and sweeping assertions made about the Act contained in this editorial. I wrote to the editor of the  Mirror  on 12 February informing him that the inquiry was being conducted by a select committee of the Parliament and that its resolution of appointment requires it to report not within three years but by 31 December this year. I concluded by requesting him to publish a correction. To the best of my knowledge, this has not yet been done. Unfortunately the impression has been created in the mind of the public that this Committee will take 3 years to report and this in turn has caused great concern and distress. This misapprehension is most unfortunate and must be corrected. To date none of the newspapers which so reported appears to have seen fit to do so. 
The task which the Joint Select Committee is appointed to perform is of great importance. The provisions and operations of the Family Law Act affect many thousands of Australians in an extremely sensitive area of their lives. In appointing the Committee, Parliament has established a public forum to enable those with views about the Act and its operation to express those views. It is the Committee's intention to ensure that the entire range of those views can be expressed in the course of the inquiry. It is vital that in reporting public hearings, the media co-operates with the Committee to ensure that what is conveyed to the public is a balanced view of the evidence given and of the different attitudes concerning the Act. The Press can play a constructive role by providing the public with accurate information and fair reports or it can trivialise and sensationalise the issues. 
I consider this to be an issue of great importance to this House and to the effectiveness of our committee system. Unless reporting of proceedings is fair and accurate the efforts of committees such as the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act to inform the public and facilitate intelligent debate on family law will be frustrated. The Committee intends to take this matter up with the Press Council, but I raise it in this place at this time because it seems to me to be a matter of concern to the Parliament as a whole. The  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Coleman,  will today deliver a statement in similar terms in another place. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The Opposition has representatives on the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. I find that the Committee is working very well. It is taking evidence from all people who are interested in the problems of family law and the problems of the family. The fact is that the Committee is functioning effectively and efficiently. It should be placed on record that it is due to report to this Parliament within 12 months and that it will certainly report this year. I support what the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  has said. There will be no delay and it will be important, if we are to have some constructive consideration of what has happened, that the Press and the media really understand the problems of the family. They need not worry about the Committee but about the problems of the family. They can offer as many constructive suggestions as they like but they should not try to belittle the Committee because such action will only weaken the chances of getting effective amendments should they be necessary. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the House a matter of some importance concerning a publication circulating within my electorate. I believe that there is at this time an attempt being made to defraud householders and extract money from them in my electorate on the pretext of promising membership to a Discount Shoppers Club. The operation which has been brought to my attention goes under the name of Carlingford Discount Shopper, but I understand that it is also active in other Sydney suburbs including St Ives, Epping and Ryde. 
Householders receive a roneoed letter bearing the signature 'N. Phillips' advising them that by sending $ 10 to a Gordon post office box number within 14 days of their receiving the letter, they may become members of the club and eligible to purchase many items at discount prices. The club's ability to purchase at less than cost is explained as resulting from its ability to bulk buy due to its 4,000 strong membership. Householders are informed, and I quote from the brochure:  in 1978 club members collectively purchased $3m worth of supplies and saved over $ 1 m. 
It is implied in the pamphlet that Grace Bros Pty Ltd and Email Ltd are amongst the list of companies supplying goods. The fact, as I understand it, is that the only involvement these companies have had with the club has been to supply price details in a routine response to an inquiry. 
The New South Wales Department of Consumer Affairs is currently investigating  Mr N.  Phillips' activities and is advising anyone inquiring not to send money. I understand also that the Trade Practices Commission and the Fraud Squad in New South Wales are also considering investigation. I have brought the matter to the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  tonight and he has promised to make a full and complete investigation into these serious matters. It would seem from information I have received that this is not the only dubious venture in which N. Phillips has been involved. In the 1 976-77 report of the New South Wales Department of Consumer Affairs, N. Phillips was revealed as a proprietor, along with a  Mr and Mrs Green  of Green and Sons, of a building steam cleaning firm based at Wahroonga. The company claimed to have a revolutionary cleaning process for walls which would last for 20 years. Not only did the process not last the distance but also it caused deterioration of the walls in some cases. No satisfaction has been achieved from complaints and the Department has not been able to establish contact with the firm's proprietors. Again, only a post office box number was available. 
I understand that this unscrupulous operator may be behind a further distressing attempt to defraud using the name 'Old Windsor Enterprises', supposedly a personalised letter goods manufacturing firm. Calls have recently been made to bereaved families notifying them of orders for goods allegedly placed by the deceased. The caller apologises for the delay in delivery, but assures that the goods will be dispatched promptly upon receipt of payment and follows this up by sending a bill. Coming as it does at a time of distress and sadness this approach often results in the grieving family honouring the supposed debt. Naturally no goods are received. This obvious misuse of published death notices to deliberately defraud is diabolical. I would just like to alert honourable members to be vigilant in this matter. It may be that there are similar operators having in mind an operation within their electorate. Certainly in Sydney there are a number of honourable members who ought to be alerted to the possibility of a discount shopper named after one of their suburbs setting up operation. It is a matter to which they ought to be alert and in respect of which they should be willing to alert their constituents. 
Will the Prime Minister tell the House what this Government's attitude is towards taxation and the proper size of government? 
-On behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I present a report of the Committee entitled 'Aboriginal Health', together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The standard of health of Aboriginals is far lower than that of the majority of Australians and would not be tolerated if it existed in the Australian community as a whole. This is the strongly held view of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs after lengthy inquiry. The rate of Aboriginal infant mortality is three to four times higher than the rate for Australia as a whole. Many more Aboriginals than non-Aboriginals are admitted to hospital and remain there for longer periods. The most common Aboriginal conditions treated in hospital are related to the physical environment. For example, in Western Australia, the incidence of these conditions is eight times higher for Aboriginals than for non- Aboriginals. 
When innumerable reports on the poor state of Aboriginal health are released there are expressions of shock or surprise and outraged cries for immediate action. However, the reports appear to have had no real impact; the appalling state of Aboriginal health is soon forgotten until another report is released. For my part, I certainly hope that that will not be the fate of this report. The Committee found that the low standard of health apparent in the majority of Aboriginal communities can be attributed largely to the unsatisfactory environmental conditions in which Aboriginals live; to their low socioeconomic status in the Australian community; and to the failure of health authorities to give sufficient attention to the special health needs of Aboriginals and to take proper account of their social and cultural beliefs and practices. 
There are two main thrusts in the report which I have tabled today. They are aimed at improving the health of Aboriginals. The first thrust is to improve the physical environment in which Aboriginals live. In this regard, the Committee has recommended that action should be taken to provide clean and adequate water supplies; to eliminate the sanitary pan system; to upgrade housing for Aboriginals living in towns and on the fringes of towns; and to develop effective consultation between Commonwealth and State departments and local authorities to determine responsibility for the provision of community services. 
The second thrust is to involve Aboriginals in the decisions which affect their health and in the delivery of their health care programs. The Committee believes that Aboriginal communities have the right to determine the type of health services which best suit their individual needs. Therefore, the Committee has recommended that a task force should be set up to place before every community the full range of alternative health care services. This might include medical services run by Aboriginals themselves, such as the 1 1 Aboriginal-controlled medical services in urban areas throughout Australia and the three services in traditional areas. It might include hospitals and nursing services administered and staffed by missions, as has been the case in so many communities over a long period. It might include health services run by State and Territory health authorities, such as we see particularly in the Northern Territory, and general and specialist practitioners. This might mean that communities will change arrangements for services, but this will be done only after all the information has been objectively placed before them. Some communities want control of their services; others are hesitant for a variety of reasons. But if they make the choice themselves it will be far more meaningful to them. 
In the meantime, the Committee recommends that the full range of programs should be maintained and, where appropriate, support for them should be increased. The Committee found a consensus among representatives of health authorities throughout Australia that Aboriginals should participate to the greatest extent possible in their own health care programs and should be fully consulted on all matters concerning their health. In practice, the level of such involvement is generally low. The Committee recommends that Aboriginals should be involved in all stages of the provision of health care services and that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  should assess the number of Aboriginals required, the time it will take to train them to assume responsibility for the health of their people and, to this end, to develop, in consultation with the relevant Ministers, suitable training programs. 
Throughout this very lengthy report there are many other recommendations and suggestions for improving Aboriginal health. The report which I have presented is the culmination of the work of two committees. In the Thirtieth Parliament a former member, the honourable Kim Beazley, raised in this House the matter of the poor state of Aboriginal health as a matter of public importance. Subsequently, this matter was referred to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. During the Committee 's inquiry it conducted 26 days of public hearings in all mainland States, the Northern Territory and Canberra. The Committee also held extensive discussions with Aboriginal people in 20 communities throughout Australia. 
The Committee acknowledges the assistance given to it by its specialist advisers, Professor Max Kamien, of the Department of Medicine at the University of Western Australia, and  Dr Jan  Reid, a medical anthropoligist. I briefly mention also the excellent relationship that I had on the Committee with my  Deputy Chairman,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  and the many other members from both this and the other side of the House who served on the Committee. I mention also the clerk of our Committee,  Mr Clive  Boorman, who assisted in the preparation of this, his tenth report. He has given outstanding service to the committees. He was ably assisted by Chris Shrosbree and Bjarne Nordin as well as Mollie Cranswick, who spent so much time typing for this report- a lot more than had previously been the case because of some of the economies which we had to effect. It is a great pleasure to be able to present this report after this length of time. I regard it as a report which will be memorable in terms of parliamentary committee reports. Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker. 
I do not intend to detain the House with a lengthy statement on the nature of the amendments introduced by Government, which have the support of the Opposition. However, I will speak briefly to the Family Law Amendment Bill because I am Chairman of the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. These amendments have the intention of affecting some of the provisions of the Act which our Committee was charged with considering. Of course, very early in the peace when the Committee commenced its deliberations it had the opportunity of speaking with representatives of the Family Law Council. We became very much aware, as indeed all honourable members would be aware, of the need to act in certain areas in which there is no dispute between members or political parties and where there is a need for urgent action. This  Bill is designed to pick up those sorts of questions and deal with them, and to enable the Family Law Act to be more effective, as far as there is substantial agreement. Some of those matters have been alluded to already. 
So far as the activities of the Committee on the Family Law Act are concerned, I want to report to honourable members that, as I have said when making statements at the public hearings which the Committee has held already, there has been a very large degree of public interest in the Act as it now stands. We have received well over 400 submissions, many of them from individuals who feel somewhat aggrieved at the operation of the Act. A committee of the Parliament finds it very difficult, without acting as a court of law and hearing both parties, to try to review individual cases. It would be a very game committee that would attempt to act in such a way as to review individual cases, and that certainly has been the approach of the Select Committee on the Family Law Act. We have held public hearings in Canberra. We have heard from the AttorneyGeneral's Department and will be conducting further public hearings this Friday to deal with other Government departments that have made submissions. We had the opportunity of conducting public hearings in Sydney last week, and there was a large number of submissions from interested parties. 
The Committee already has taken the unusual step of approving for publication a large number of submissions. Some 50 submissions which were published about two weeks ago will be available shortly in a  Hansard  form. Last week in Sydney we agreed to the publication of a further 54 submissions and they also will be made available in  Hansard  form. People can consider them and make further comments and observations that might be helpful to the Committee in considering the sorts of recommendations that members of the public are making to it. At this stage the position is that the Committee has received something of the order of 100 substantive submissions which it will be examining carefully. We will be endeavouring to maintain our program, which requires us to report to the Parliament at the end of this year, if that is at all possible. 
-I ask the Minister for Finance whether he has responded to suggestions from the Young Liberal Movement of Australia for an extension of daylight saving. Is the Minister in a position to give a cost benefit analysis of possible savings from an extension of that program? 
I follow the most disappointing speech that I have heard in this House from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the time that I have been in this Parliament. I have never heard him before having to strain at the interpretation of language in the way he has tonight. I have never heard such a speech from a man who I thought was far better fitted to be the Leader of the Opposition than the man who presently holds that position. Putting that aside, if we look at what he has had to say in this particular debate it becomes quite clear that the Opposition are certainly worried men. They are worried about the actions of the Premier of New South Wales and his colleagues in agreeing to this most disastrous compromise, as they would like to call it, or capitulation in the industrial commissions of New South Wales and the Government's conscientious decision to agree to give up resistance to the increased benefits for the employees in the electricity generation area. 
The fight in New South Wales has been going on for a long time. It is seen quite clearly as a substantial issue, one upon which not only the workers in the electricity area are interested and concerned, but also employees in a whole host of areas. We see the situation where the Labor Party, when it was in office federally, previously capitulated in relation to Telecom and Postal Commission employees. We see the situation now where as soon as the Wran Government secures a majority in both Houses of Parliament, and as soon as it was conveniently possible after securing that majority, instead of adopting a moderate pose it has capitulated to those left wing elements in the Labor Party who kept quiet for them and have now given it away. They have said: 'Here are the extra hours that you have wanted. You have played the game by us and now we, the Government, will play the game by you, our employees'. That is the very situation that we are faced with. If we do hot recognise this as being the first chink in the destruction of a sound, economic policy for the whole of Australia we do not recognise the harm that is being done to Australia. 
We saw this strained interpretation given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who endeavoured to suggest that the very basis upon which the State Government in New South Wales could justify its position was that in 1975, in the period of the caretaker Federal Administration, where the situation has arisen in an industrial matter which had been proceeding for some time that the Government prior to 11 November had agreed to this particular compromise, the Fraser Government, bound by the conditions of its appointment by the GovernorGeneral not to make any change in policy of the Whitlam Government during that caretaker period, had to accept it. It is evidence of the integrity of the Government that in upholding the injunction of the Governor-General it agreed to that position, notwithstanding the very firm opposition that it held. As has been mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  at the first available opportunity, when the Government was in a position to re-establish the position firmly by going before the Arbitration Commission and arguing the case properly, it did so. 
There is nothing loose on the part of the Government about it. It was part of its strength that it said notwithstanding what was given to these men in other areas and notwithstanding the apparent injustice- it is an apparent injustice- it is not in the national interest to allow this matter to go any further. We have the first position now in which one State Government has given up. It seeks to establish that the Commonwealth Government, through its reimbursement grants, will have to meet the additional commitments in wages that the New South Wales Government has been prepared to pay. That Government is not asking for the people of New South Wales to pay these additional benefits for its employees but is asking that Australian taxpayers subsidise higher wages and costs in New South Wales because that State Government is not prepared to meet them. 
-Shorter hours do involve additional costs for workers. As a New South Welshman, I am not ashamed to stand up and to criticise the New South Wales Government for the position that it has taken. I speak with some shame of the position that the State Government has taken on this particular issue because it has intervened positively in proceedings in which it did not need to intervene. It could have kept its resolve and left the matter to be dealt with by the proper conciliation and arbitration body, the Industrial Commission of New South Wales. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  this afternoon criticised the Government for becoming involved and putting a view before conciliation and arbitration commissions. Yet he did not recognise that that is what is happening in New South Wales because it is a positive intervention by the State Labor Government in this particular industrial dispute to come up with a result that suits it and its own particular position. It has to be recognised that it has intervened. It has been argued that the reduction in hours will be paid for because the employees in the Electricity Commission of New South Wales will now co-operate. What does that mean? It means that the employees have not co-operated before with their employers to develop a situation in which they will permit people to be employed in other shifts to do certain maintenance work. The position is that the employer is not able to organise his labour and to pay for additional hours worked during penalty rate periods. He cannot employ people to work at a particular time. 
In New South Wales the position is that the union has said to the Electricity Commission that it will let the Electricity Commission's maintenance people maintain the electricity generation plant only at a time when all the other employees are on the payroll and in the plant. That is the area in which the employees are to increase productivity. It is an absolute disgrace that a union has been able to blackmail the Electricity Commission thus preventing the people of New South Wales benefitting from the increased productivity that could have flowed long before this. It is a disgrace that that particular union has prevented the people of New South Wales gaining the benefit of decreased electricity generation charges which would have occurred had that increased productivity ensued. If that is called a responsible trade union approach, I do not think anybody can hold himself to be responsible in any area. It is the most pitiful approach that I could imgaine being taken by any group of people who are interested in their fellow citizens. In my judgment- and I believe the judgment of the New South Wales people on this particular issue- no credit can be given to the Wran Government for its capitulation. 
In his speech today the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  clearly pointed out that the unions in New South Wales have sought to gain for themselves the benefits of increased productivity and not to share these benefits with people in other areas who, because they are efficient, cannot contribute to further productivity gains. The Government has made its position quite clear and has argued before conciliation bodies that productivity gains ought to be shared among the whole work force. There have been cases before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission where these particular matters have been thrashed out. 
The line of the Australian Council of Trade Unions- which I believe is a fairly reasonable approach- has been undermined by this response. This is borne out by the  Australian Financial Review  of 10 January which demonstated that the ACTU was looking at a situation in which it would be prepared, in arguing for a shorter working life, to forgo higher wages which would result from increased productivity across the board. It seemed to me to be an extreme position to take in the spirit of an appearance before a conciliation body, but a position which could be argued legitimately. However, that position is undermined because, instead of it being argued for all workers in general, the position has been reached where a collective bargaining situation is to be argued concerning particular workers in particular places. I note that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  always likes to be in the position of collective bargaining and yet is always prepared to scream and rant about the position of the unemployed. Yet the very decisions that have been taken by the New South Wales Government are to the disadvantage of the unemployed people there.  (Quorum formed)  It is to the disadvantage of the unemployed throughout Australia because increased labour costs resulting from shorter working hours in this situation can lead only to decreased opportunities. 
If a government wanted, through a reduction in working hours, to be able to effect a result which would not disadvantage the unemployed and would increase opportunity it could be done effectively if those people involved were prepared to take a reduction in wages corresponding with the reduction in working hours. If the people involved were prepared to do that- I suggest that in this area it would be most appropriate- there would be some real advantage for the unemployed and some real advantage for New South Wales. If that were part of a responsible arrangement we might have been in a far better position than we are at this time. One might have some sympathy if one were in a position in which the people involved were essentially lowly paid, but as I understand it- maybe I am citing those people who are at the top of the line- but a drag line operator in the New South Wales coal fields associated with the Liddell power station earns, I understand, $28,000. 
-I have been told that $28,000 is the wage of a drag line machine operator in the coal fields of New South Wales. Not only that but by insistence of the union involved not just one drag line operator has to be employed but there has to be two in the cab. In addition they need a greaser on the same salary in the same cab. When I made inquiries about people who were working in other positions in the coal fields I found that the wage levels were correspondingly higher than one would find in other areas of industry and enterprise. Yet these are the people whose hours are being shortened. These are the people whom the Wran Government is seeking to advantage in this way to the disadvantage of the unemployed and to the disadvantage of the people of New South Wales. 
I rise tonight to give the House further information on the matter that I raised in the adjournment debate on 1 March last. Honourable members may recall that at that time I raised matters concerning a discount shoppers' club and I related to the House information about pamphlets that were being widely distributed within my electorate. In view of events which have taken place since that time, I feel it is my public responsibility to continue to give warnings against this unscrupulous operator and I would now say very dangerous operations such as the Carlingford Discount Shopper. Honourable members may recall that in my speech I outlined this dubious enterprise. It involves promises of large discounts on the purchase of many items for people who pay $10 to join a discount club. Investigations have since shown that prices advertised by the club are far below even the wholesale price of the goods offered and it would be impossible to adhere to such prices offered in any reputable sales transaction. 
My last speech received considerable coverage in the local Press and also in the Sydney daily Press. This in turn caused the man behind the discount club to make his own public response.  Mr Nicholas  Philips, the fictitious name used by the operator of the Discount Shopper, circulated a letter within my electorate damning me for my speech. He stated that I 'attempted to ostracize the Discount Shopper' and that I had used parliamentary privilege to do so. That is a frequent ploy by people who are properly criticised for most dubious activities. He also labelled the Sydney  Daily Mirror  as a 'sensationalistic girlie porn type newspaper' because it chose to print my warnings.  His  response was as distasteful as his activities. A member of Parliament often has to contend with claims that parliamentary privilege is used to cover erroneous articles and items about individuals. Indeed, there are times when a member of Parliament may well be less than correct in his assessment of a situation. However, it is quite clear to me that this is not such a case. 
Far worse than this criticism is the fact that the letter blatantly lied about the position of the Discount Shopper in the eyes of the law. Again I quote from the letter: 
We have been before the Fraud Squad and have explained ourselves to their entire satisfaction (i.e. Det. Sgt. Frodsham) and will meet very shortly by appointment with the Consumer Affairs Department. 
For the information of honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the letter that did circulate within my electorate. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Investigations have, however, uncovered a very different picture. I believe that the Fraud Squad is anything but satisfied with the operations of the Discount Shopper. In fact,  Mr Philips,  whose real name is John Barry Green, is considered by the police to be not only unsavoury but dangerous. It appears that he is already facing charges for criminal offences, details of which I cannot or should not in my judgment divulge to the House at this time. As to his appointment with the Consumer Affairs Department, I can tell the House that three such appointments have been made and they were cancelled at the last minute. Late last week officers of the Consumer Affairs Department received a call from  Mr Green's  solicitors advising them that  Mr Green  was seriously ill in Tasmania and therefore could not keep his most recent appointment with them. From what I have outlined tonight I believe that honourable members will clearly see, as I do, that it is my duty to alert and hopefully protect the public from this man and his most disreputable operations in my electorate. 
I also draw the attention of honourable members and I hope that it will be accepted that this is a bipartisan approach to the reported statements of the New South Wales Minister for Consumer Affairs,  Mr Einfeld,  which were reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of today's date under the section headed In State Parliament' and also in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of today's date under the heading 'Couple Prey on Relatives of the Dead'.  Mr Einfeld  confirmed the facts in relation to certain prosecutions that the State Government was initiating in relation to an operation designed to seek moneys from relatives of a deceased person. He indicated, in answer to a question, the nature of that Government's inquiries. He said also that the Trade Practices Commission was prosecuting the Greens for breaches of the Trade Practices Act and that John Green was on remand for malicious injury and harassment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do, most certainly. 
-Last Thursday evening, I was absent from the House with leave. During the adjournment debate, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  made a fairly lengthy speech in which he mentioned me. 
I wish to correct his statement. It is quite incorrect in many material respects. In particular, he referred to and tabled a statement which indicated that there were certain parcels of land in Sydney on which the Commonwealth had made certain decisions. He suggested in his speech that some of that land was within the boundaries of my electorate. That is clearly not the case. There is no land, the subject of that statement or the subject of any decision, which is within my electorate. I wish to make that clear, because I think it puts the story upon which this particular speech was based into its correct perspective. He went on to draw certain implications from the fact that neither I nor my colleagues had answered a story written some weeks ago for the Sydney  Sun-Herald  by  Mr Neil  O'Reilly. I indicate that I did not answer that story because I saw it as one which was based on quite incorrect premises. It was a beat up story. It did not warrant any credit, comment or, in my view, even correction. I understand that that is also the view of my colleagues mentioned in that article. 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen reports of a New South Wales Government proposal to establish a government-controlled- that is, subject to ministerial direction- legal services commission to supervise legal aid services in New South Wales? Does this proposal involve Commonwealth agencies such as the Australian Legal Aid Office and perhaps the Aboriginal Legal Service? Is the proposal in line as to control and co-operation, particularly with the legal profession, with any proposal for New South Wales to participate in the formation of a New South Wales legal aid commission under the umbrella of the Australian Legal Aid Commission? Has the New South Wales Government refused to be involved in a co-operative arrangement such as those finalised in other States, including South Australia? 
-I wish to be associated with this condolence motion not only because I had the opportunity of serving with Frank Stewart in this House but also because of his family's association with mine in other ways. My late father served with his brother in the Parliament of New South Wales. He told me of his fondness for and his admiration of another member of the Stewart family. In this House I had the opportunity to know what my father meant. As one who, in a sense, is part of a political family I think I can recognise and respect what happens when members of a family together serve the public and serve their country in the way they think best. 
I also had the opportunity of serving with Frank Stewart on the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. The Committee was established only recently but it has been working assiduously. It met in Perth, with Frank present, the week before he died. We knew of his intense personal interest in the subject of our deliberations. We recognised his conscientious support of everything that had to do with the family and family life, and its importance to our particular task. We respected his diligence and the assiduous way in which he fulfilled his duties in that role, as he did in all others. He attended all the public hearings we conducted in our short time of operation. I know that other members of the Committee would want me, as Chairman, to speak briefly about his involvement in this area because of its close association with his own personal area of concern and interest in this Parliament, one which transcended, I believe, the political interests that we all have and share. The report of the Committee ultimately will be poorer, in my view, for not having him associated with us to the end. I finally want to make an observation, as a non-Catholic, about his churchmanship. He was respected for his churchmanship by, I believe, men and women of all faiths. 
I thank the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  for his courtesy in allowing me some moments to develop arguments, from the point of view of the Government, on what he has put forward. This is an important question and essentially I am one in this Parliament who, on matters relating to Aboriginals, seeks to develop to the broadest possible extent the consensus that I believe is possible in matters relating to the welfare and advancement of our Aboriginal people. I therefore am disappointed when I read a motion of this kind, which I regard as more likely to divide us than to bring us together to achieve meaningful advances for the Aboriginal people of this country. The motion is worth reading because whilst the words in it say one thing, I am not sure that the honourable member, in his remarks, has substantiated what he alleges in his motion. The motion reads: 
That, in the opinion of the House, the Government has repudiated- ,  ' repudiated ' is the key word -  its policy and legislation on Aboriginal affairs when these clash with powerful pastoral, mining or State Government interests. 
The fact is that in no way has it been shown that the Government has repudiated its policy or its legislation in the area of Aboriginal affairs. The honourable member for Capricornia, both in his speech and in his substantive motion, referred to the question of Aboriginal self-management and self-determination in the State of Queensland. I believe that none of us has been altogether happy, not only with the way in which, over a long period, differences in approach between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government have developed, but also with the conflict that has existed. However, the arrangements which the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the present Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  managed to develop brought the Queensland Government round to accepting the approach of the Commonwealth. We arrived at a settlement which, in a substantial form, accepted that there was a different way for Aboriginals to do things when compared with the way in which other Queenslanders were required to do them. It put aside the demand for assimilation which had been self-evident until that time in the Queensland policy. 
Notwithstanding the runs that we have on the board and notwithstanding the successes that have been achieved, particularly in relation to the Aboriginals at Mornington Island and Aurukun, the honourable member for Capricornia wants to bring about a situation in which Aboriginals once more will be the pawns in a political exercise, a dispute between the interests of those of us in the Commonwealth Parliament who would like to act in a particular way and, on the other hand, the Queensland Government. The people we would be fighting over, as we were previously, would be the Aboriginal people in those two centres. I do not believe that it is in the interests of the Aboriginal people for us to resolve in the courts of this land disputes over who can make laws and rules for Aboriginal people, particularly when we can do so by agreement between governments. 
I am not saying that we should run away from a fight. Of course, if the differences were so marked that they would be detrimental to the Aboriginal people we would say: 'We stand or fall on this issue. Let us determine it. ' But that is not the case. We have achieved a remarkable degree of consensus. If we were to put that aside we would bring all the issues once more to the forefront. We would have to test in the High Court of this land the extent to which we have constitutional power over many incidental areas. We would have to test our constitutional power to make laws in relation to hospitals, schools and education and in relation to whether we could take over the land and deal with it in a particular way. The question of minerals and mineral rights in areas in which Aboriginals are living would be put at issue. I ask honourable members to mark my words. Those matters would not be put at issue nicely. We would not have a pleasant debate about them for a couple of weeks. The Commonwealth and the States would fight for years over what they saw as their respective rights. The pawns in that exercise would be the Aboriginal people. I for one would not support such an approach. The honourable member raised other matters in his speech which, because of the time allowed for this debate, I cannot cover. But the thrust of his speech which was so evident and which we have to confront is not one that I support. It is not one that the Government supports. 

 Dr Everingham (Capricornia)- I seek the indulgence of the Chair to explain that the Opposition does not propose to divide on this question on account of the time limitation. 

<graphic href="114131197905034_25_1_2_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905034_25_1_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905034_25_1_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905034_25_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the negative. 
I make the point, first of all, that I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  that the basic thrust of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill is in clauses 1 to 3. Therefore, it is appropriate to direct my remarks to the same sorts of comments that he made in his address. But I wish to make it clear in my first few remarks that there is no basis for suggesting that taxation of royalties in this instance or in any other instance is retrospective. There have been taxation obligations upon Aboriginals in relation to the receipt of royalties, and it is to clarify the obligation that has existed for a long time that this legislation has been introduced into the Parliament. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports implied that the rate of taxation is harsh and unconscionable in some way. In fact the taxation is much lower in terms of its quantum than any other group in the community might be called upon to pay. It is 32c in the dollar. 
-I will come to the alleged compensation aspects in a moment. The rate is 32c in the dollar on one-fifth of the income earned. About 6 per cent of the total royalty payments will be taxable. That is a very low rate of tax. Members of the Opposition have attempted to argue that in some way this ought to be seen as being compensation for dispossession. We know of their interest in this subject. There is on the Notice Paper a notice of motion which deals with the subject in the broad and which calls upon us, as a government, to legislate for compensation for the Aboriginal people for the dispossession of their land. I was pleased to hear honourable members opposite assert that the compensation in this instance, namely, the royalty payments, would be regarded as compensation for dispossession. I thought they were arguing about something else when they were speaking of legislation to deal with compensation for dispossession, and I suspect that we will hear them argue that it is something else as well. In other words, they are arguing that there ought to be not one piece of compensation legislated for but a number of situations in which there is compensation for the same dispossession. 
The fact is that when compensation is in the form of income it is taxable. If a person receives workers' compensation and has other income that makes him liable to pay income tax, he will be taxed upon his compensation payment. If a person receives compensation in a lump sum form and invests it and it then becomes the basis for his livelihood, he will be taxed upon that compensation. The question of taxation of compensation has exercised the minds of our courts for a long period. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports would know that the question of taxation of compensation exercised the mind of the High Court recently and caused it to distinguish its approach from that of the House of Lords. The taxation of compensation is not a new principle in our law. It is something which has been recognised and which has happened when the nature of the compensation has been income. In this situation there will be over a long period regular payments which by their very nature are income. That is the point that has to be looked at and understood. In those circumstances taxation is quite proper. 
Last night the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  directed our attention to reports by Shann Turnbull, concerning the impact of mining royalties on Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, the first of which was issued on 27 November 1977. Other than reading the conclusions, he did not direct our attention specifically to how it might be relevant to this legislation, particularly its taxation aspects. But I intend to make what he had to say relevant to the legislation because I think some very important points can be learned from the reports of  Mr Shann  Turnbull. 
The fact of the matter is that  Mr Shann  Turnbull wrote two reports. The honourable member for Capricornia might be somewhat surprised to learn that  Mr Shann  Turnbull has produced his second report. It is available to us. Obviously, the honourable member for Capricornia had not read the second report when he referred in his speech during the second reading debate to a report on the economic development of Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory and said that it was to be followed by a further report on how the money might flow and might be regulated to increase community self-sufficiency. In fact, the report has been followed by another report. I commend that report to the honourable member. It deals specifically with taxation and it is most interesting. If the honourable member wants to read about that matter quickly, perhaps he should read the conclusions. I direct his attention to paragraph 9.2.9, of the report, in which  Mr Shann  Turnbull has this to say about taxation: 
Self-sufficiency in settlements and towns could be very substantially furthered for both Aboriginals and Europeans by extending the principle of co-operative Federalism to local government so as to eliminate the need for the Federal Government to collect taxes from individuals . . . 
The honourable member for Capricornia will say that that is supportive of his proposition that Aboriginals should not have to pay taxation on royalties they receive. But  Mr Shann  Turnbull went on to add:   . . and the need for cither Federal or State bureaucracies to provide health and education, social security and other services. 
I would be interested to know whether the honourable member has really thought out his position in respect of this matter. He acclaimed the report and suggested that this Government had not acted upon it.  Mr Shann  Turnbull advocated in his report that the Aborigines should not pay taxation on the royalties, but he went on to advocate that the Commonwealth Government should not provide funds for health or education services. I would be interested to know whether the honourable member is basing his basic argument that there should be no taxation of Aboriginals upon the sorts of suggestions which were made in the report from which I read. 
He was talking about the taxation of Aboriginals as individuals. The concept of the taxation of royalties was, and is, a taxation of individuals. The individuals, collectively, are seen to be receiving that money through their organisations. The legislation before us is designed to provide for the imposition of a withholding tax so that the tax is collected at the first instance. That is done for convenience. In fact we are speaking about the taxation of money which is to find its way into the hands of the Aboriginal people. That is the very nature of the thrust of the speech made by the honourable member for Capricornia last night; the very reason that he drew upon the report of  Mr Shann  Turnbull, which dealt with self-management and self-determination. This Government has accepted a policy of self-management and self-determination. 
I draw attention to the fact that, when one reads both of these reports collectively, one sees that there are wider ramifications than those pointed out to us by the honourable member for Capricornia in the debate last night. I think that that is pertinent. We ought to look at one of the ramifications. I am not advocating what it suggests- I am not putting it to honourable members. But I think the honourable member opposite, by relying upon the reports, was putting it to honourable members. If that were not so, he would say: 'I really must withdraw everything I said and suggest that these reports warrant a closer look'. But that is not what he said last night. The fact of the matter is that these reports contain suggestions which go to the thrust pf this debate, namely, taxation.  Mr Shann  Turnbull suggested that there should be no taxation and no provision of services. That is not the proposition I heard honourable members opposite put. What they said was that no taxation should be imposed and funds and services should be provided. 
Quite frankly, as one who has taken a great deal of interest in Aboriginal welfare, I believe that it is quite proper for money received from that source- namely, royalties- to be taxed. I think it is quite proper for the Commonwealth to make clear, as it does in this legislation, what the obligation of the Aboriginals will be. In the past the matter of enforcement has been unclear and proper enforcement has been difficult. 1 believe that it is quite proper for the Commonwealth to establish a framework so that Aboriginals will know their obligations and will know thai proper procedures for the collection of the money involved will be laid down. But it should be noted- I emphasise this-that the rate of taxation proposed is a rate which applies to nobody else. It is a special rate, a concessional rate. The rate is only 32c in the dollar in relation to one-fifth of the income earned. I think that that ought to be commended and not disparaged in the way in which it has been disparaged by the Opposition. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
-We are addressing ourselves to clause 7 of the Bill. However, the matters that were covered by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  were of a fairly wide ambit.  (Quorum formed).  Clause 7 of the Bill deals with the principal operative sections relating to the taxing or payments in respect of mining operations on Aboriginal lands. Of course, it contains all the definitional sections of the Bill, among others. During the course of this debate the nature of this tax has been, I think, grossly misrepresented by honourable members opposite. It has been implied that it is unconscionable. On the one hand, if one listens to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins),  the amount of income that is likely to be derived by Aboriginals is likely to be small and insignificant. Yet if one reads the report from which the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  quoted so fully last evening one will be aware that it is likely that the amount of income to be derived from the mining of uranium and other products on Aboriginal lands is likely to be the saviour of not only the Aboriginal people but also the people of the Northern Territory. 
I think it is important that we recognise that in clause 7 of the Bill that we are considering we are dealing with a very small tax. In this case the withholding tax is set at a rate of 6.4 per cent of the gross royalty payments to be paid to Aboriginals. That is a very low rate of tax. It bears no relationship to any other tax payable, and I think that point ought not to be forgotten. When one hears honourable members opposite speaking in relation to these matters one would think that we were acting in a harsh and unconscionable way in relation to Aboriginals and the income that they are likely to receive. If one listened to the honourable member for Fremantle one would be led to believe that the only income that an Aboriginal was likely to have was $1,000 derived from royalties paid in relation to the Ranger mining development. Yet we all know that that is just not the case. We know that in many of those situations Aboriginals are receiving social security benefits. I pointed out earlier that some honourable members may care to adopt that part of the Turnbull report that advocates that those benefits be taken away and substituted entirely by royalties. That proposition has not been put by us; it was put by somebody else. 
Yet the honourable member for Fremantle was suggesting that the only income that an Aboriginal would be expected to receive is $1,000 and that it is unconscionable to tax that amount at 6.4 per cent. He forgets the social security benefits that are involved. He forgets that it is not the only mining operation in the Northern Territory. He knows that other mining operations have been consented to by Aboriginals. He knows that other mining operations have been going on. He had only to consult his friend the honourable member for Capricornia to realise that in his speech he referred to some which have been paying royalties for as long as 10 years. In many cases numbers of Aboriginals will have quite significant incomes. It is quite false to suggest- 
-In terms of the funds that are available for their benefit the amount involved is considerable. Members opposite allude quite frequently to trust arrangements. Are they the people who suggest that if an honourable member is receiving income indirectly from a trust, it is not for his benefit? What I hear them say so frequently particularly when they think it may involve any honourable member on this side of the chamber, is that those sorts of incomes ought to be taken into account to the greatest extent possible and that people ought to be almost punished for having them. Yet when Aboriginals are to benefit, through trust accounts which are set aside for them and into which the funds will be put, for their use, they suggest that they are not going to derive a benefit from them. It is quite ludicrous to separate those matters to that extent. If we read the report from which the honourable member for Capricornia quoted so fully last night- and I am not suggesting that one ought to rely upon it entirely- and which he put to us with some degree of approbation, one would recognise the humbug coming from opposite. 
Yes. It is coming from members opposite. On the one hand the honourable member for Fremantle was trying to argue that Aborigines would have absolutely nothing and that it is unconscionable to charge this 6.4 per cent tax. On the other hand the honourable member for Capricornia was suggesting that the people of the Northern Territory were going to benefit tremendously from the amount of spending power to be put in the hands of Aboriginals and that they ought to be happy for the Aboriginals to have this income in their hands because there would be a multiplier effect which would substantially benefit everybody else. I would just like to read the passage which the honourable member for Capricornia quoted incorrectly last night. I would like to quote it correctly because in it the point is made quite clearly that there are substantial benefits to be derived from the mining activity which will be going on in the Northern Territory, in which all people will share and from which particularly the Aboriginal people will benefit. In dealing with the impact on the Northern Territory economy he quoted from paragraph 132 of  Mr Shann  Turnbull 's report, which states: 
The use and ownership reversion in the conditions of granting mining leases would provide the basis to make the Northern Territory economy self-sufficient so that no State taxes were required and the Territory would become the leading business and retirement haven. 
He went on to say that the uranium royalties received by Aboriginals will make a far greater impact on the Northern Territory economy than all other income expected to be received by Northern Territory residents on the present methods of managing resource development. We should bear in mind those comments which the honourable member for Capricornia last night spoke of in such glowing terms as the basis upon which we could expect that the Northern Territory people would have no complaint about the Aboriginals receiving their income tax free because the Northern Territory people were going to benefit from a share in it. We are told by members opposite that it is harsh and unconsci unconscionable for them to be asked to pay a withholding tax of 6.4 per cent on the total income that is received for their benefit. I would like to read to honourable members the point that was made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he spoke of the way in which this particular tax was set, because I think it bears further comment. He said: 
I stress that the rate was arrived at after most careful consideration. It takes into account that substantial amounts attributable to payments from mining operations can be expected to be expended on the provision of facilities and services for Aboriginal communities and for the benefit of people whose income level is low. On balance, the Government believes that a rate calculated in this way is a reasonable revenue contribution out of mining payments of this kind. 
I think all reasonable honourable members would support this legislation because that is the principle that is involved. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the  Chairman  do report progress and ask leave to sit again. 
-As the Prime Minister has been going so well today, I direct my question to him. Has the Prime Minister seen recent statements, including statements from the Opposition, advocating indiscriminately higher levels of government expenditure, and particularly has he seen the statement of the honourable member for Port Adelaide advocating abandonment of staff ceilings in the Public Service? Are those promises consistent with lower levels of taxation? 
I want briefly to draw to the attention of the House the hypocrisy of honourable members opposite when they suggest that their performance in government might have been different from the requirements to get legislation through this House and that the performance of their colleagues in other parliaments would in some way be better than our performance in this place. If we in this House emulated the performance of the New South Wales Government in using guillotines and gags to put through important legislation such as the amendments to the Evidence Act, legislation dealing with the administration of legal aid and a series of other Bills in the dying hours of the Parliament, we would be rightly criticised. But in this chamber, in a very responsible way we have extended already the time in which Parliament will sit so that legislation can be considered over an appropriate period, with full discussion. 
I think that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  deserves to be commended for the program that he has advanced for the completion of business. Notwithstanding the program of honourable members opposite, I am sure that consideration could be given to going on even further if it is thought to be necessary. But if the House were to sit beyond the period it has been scheduled to sit, I am sure that those honourable members opposite who do have commitments which would take them away when this period of sitting is complete would be the first to be crying privately about their own personal inconvenience. 

 Mr DAWKINS (Fremantle) &lt; 1 1.34)- I contest some of the remarks of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  The point is that nobody on this side of the House would want to see the Parliament sitting for a shorter period. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  simply spoke to the organisation of the business of this House. If the honourable member for Dundas were to look back at the period 1972 to 1975, he would find that the amount of legislation dealt with in that period was more than twice the amount of legislation with which we are now having to deal. The Labor Government passed twice as many measures as this Government has passed. 
Nobody objects to this Parliament doing its job. What we object to is fiddling around twiddling our thumbs for the first few weeks of a session waiting for the Government to produce legislation. What we are saying is that if this Government has anything sensible to debate, we are prepared to sit here for the whole year. What we do object to, however, is the Government's wasting the time of this Parliament, then right at the end of the sessional period introducing something crucial and vital for debate. Right at the end the program is reorganised so that everything is spirited through in the dead of night when nobody is aware of it. 
I was used for the purposes of an explanation on one aspect of this matter by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He might well understand where one should place decimal points. I am not in a position to check him on that matter without looking more closely at the figures he has mentioned. No doubt the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will do so. But in relation to the question of privilege, the honourable member for Prospect is under a fundamental misunderstanding as to what is involved. As I understand it, if a conversation takes place between a person and his legal practitioner that legal practitioner cannot be called upon to give evidence against his client in relation to that matter. No doubt the person involved would not want to give evidence of it either. But if some other evidence is available- it might be that somebody was writing down some notes on a pad and left an imprint or something which later somebody ascertained on some other basis - 
-I will come to that in a moment. In the circumstances I just mentioned, that evidence can be adduced. If another person was in the room- it might have been a secretarywhen a  conversation took place  between a solicitor and his client, that secretary might well be able to be called to give evidence of that conversation and the admission made. What honourable members opposite are trying to say is that if there is some other evidence and it happens to be evidence obtained by a listening device that evidence should not be able to be brought in those proceedings. In fact, the question of privilege would still apply in such cases. In a case such as the one I mentioned, the solicitor cannot be called to give evidence. The privilege in the hands of the solicitor remains. He can claim his right of privilege. If the other evidence which is available- it might be in any of those situations which I suggested- is given in the court and accepted by the court there might well be a conviction in relation to that offence. The question of privilege is not being waived at all. The privilege in the solicitor to be able to refuse to give evidence still remains, and I think that is an important point. It is not one that ought to be ignored. 
If honourable members want to argue against the use of listening devices then they should argue that as a question of principle, if they see it in that way. But they should not confuse it by suggesting that the question of privilege in the hands of a solicitor is in some way being done away with as a result of this legislation. That is just not the case. The solicitor still is able to claim privilege if that is his desire, and that is not being altered by this legislation one iota. I think that matter ought to be explained so that, at least the position will not be misrepresented as a result of the discussions we have heard or as a result of the phony argument, I suggest, that the privilege of the solicitor is being taken away. It may not be as effective as he or the client might otherwise have liked it to be, but any one of those situations that I have recounted might well have led to a conviction in certain circumstances. 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware that continued bans and limitations imposed by operators at Caltex 's Kurnell refinery in Sydney are affecting production? Was not an arrangement made some time ago which involved these operators doing normal work while the question of their industrial regulation was being further examined? 
-The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  in his opening remarks, said that the Budget was not widely understood in the community. I can only say that that might well be the case if one listened to the views of the honourable member for Parramatta. Clearly he did not understand the Budget. I only wish he understood the economic objectives that this Government is attempting to achieve as well, for instance, as the Premier of New South Wales who certainly is not as ungenerous as honourable members opposite in his understanding of what is required, of the difficulties that we have been through and what is about to come as a result of the policies of this Government. 
-I am going to read what he had to say because I think it is time that honourable members opposite, who are always the doomsayers, heard what some of their friends outside this place are saying about our economic conditions. In tonight's late final extra edition of the Sydney  Daily Mirror  there is an article which reports the words of the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  under the heading: 'At last, some Good Economic News: Boom ahead for Australia- Wran'. The article states: 
The 1 980s will be a boom decade Tor Australia, the Premier  Mr Wran  told the 1979 Economic School at New South Wales University today.  Mr Wran  predicted inflation and unemployment would drop steadily in the next few years. 
I am not suggesting that he said that it would be as a result of his own policies in New South Wales. I suspect that he recognises that it will be as a result of the responsible policies being pursued by this Government. The article continues: 
He said there was one problem- which was being overcome- building ports, power stations, railways to keep pace with investment. 
This infrastructure is needed to accommodate the large number of companies who have plans to invest in coal, aluminium smelters and a wide range of industries', he said. 
The prospects for economic growth are as good or better than at any time in our 200 year history. 
The article goes on to quote him as saying: 
I am confident the 1980s will be one of Australia's best decades, with large-scale investment in new industries'. 
I think it is proper that I should not examine the views necessarily of my colleagues in support of this Budget. They have been somewhat predictable. But it is timely for me to look at the views of those who claim to support honourable members opposite, even those who go on public platforms with their leader and speak with him in parks and other places. When they get away from their friends they start to tell a little more of the truth, perhaps one could say, about our prospects and our future. I would like honourable members opposite to take up their copies of the recently distributed report of the Reserve Bank of Australia, not a spokesman of the Government, an independent body. It has amongst its membership one R. J. L. Hawke. What did he agree to as a statement about our current economic circumstances when he participated in the writing of this report and its presentation? I did not find any dissent in the report from the aspiring honourable member in relation to our economy and the observations made by the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank, in its comments on development in Australia, had this to say: 
Gross domestic product, in real terms, expanded more rapidly than in other recent years. 
It went on to state: 
Aggregate consumer spending for the year increased moderately and private capital expenditure rose. Figures on employment of wage and salary earners in private industry increased after falling for some years. 
The balance of payments also improved; as the year progressed, the current account strengthened and private capital inflow picked up. Australia's terms of trade were more favourable than in 1 977-78, and there were indications of enhanced international competitiveness in parts of industry. 
This is a commentary on our present economic state as a result of policies pursued by this Government, policies which are responsible, policies which in the light of the Budget which has just been presented are being pursued and continue to be pursued in Australia's best interests. Behind all the glib phrases and the discussion about tax cuts and so on there is one basic thrust in relation to this Budget. It has to be recognised because this Budget is designed further to reduce inflation and to promote a sound and broadly based growth for Australia. This is important because growth means job opportunities for the young who are spoken of by honourable members opposite in such fine terms. It is not a matter of just talking; it is a matter of developing policies which are designed to achieve those opportunities for our young. That is what this Budget is about. 
The Budget provides incentives for both individuals and businesses within a responsible framework conducive to our longer term economic goals. This is important. The Budget significantly reduces the call of government upon this nation's finance markets, and that is important. It reduces the deficit. Honourable members opposite might ask: Why is that important? The reduction of the deficit is most important because it means ultimately that there will be lower interest rates, greater building activity. 
We cannot distort the market forces in the way the Australian Labor Party does. I am going to come to all those sorts of questions when I discuss in a very positive way what happened in the Whitlam years. It is important that the public is aware of what honourable members opposite are saying not only in this debate but also what they have been saying throughout the past year. This Budget equips us to succeed in a world environment of rising inflation and intensifying competition because we are determined to have lower rates of inflation than our overseas competitors- countries which are producing goods in competition to ours- such as the United States of America and countries in Europe. We have achieved a situation which is the reverse of what occurred under Labor. The inflation rate has dropped, in comparison with the levels achieved by other countries that have abandoned the responsible economic policies that this Government is pursuing. 
But in the framework of this responsible Budget we have been able to achieve a number of objectives. One was to remove the income tax surcharge which unfortunately had to be imposed last year. That was necessary and, in my view, important and an achievement. It means that in this Budget income tax imposts upon taxpayers are less. Nothing that honourable members opposite might say reduces the impact of this move or will reduce the impact because the reduction does not come into operation until 1 December. As I have indicated before, there has been a major reduction in the size of the deficit. It is down to $2, 193m. This is 1.9 per cent of gross domestic product, compared to last year's deficit of 3.4 per cent of gross domestic product. The domestic deficit is the lowest for 6 years. The Government has indicated that restraint on expenditure will be maintained and there will be little or no change in real terms. The Government also restored twice-yearly automatic indexation of all indexed pensions. Additionally, it restored benefits to those who may have found that the means tests had excluded them over recent years, and that is a very important matter to pensioners throughout Australia. In the context of a responsible Budget, we were able to do those several things. 
I wonder whether those people who are listening to this debate and those who read  Hansard  will take the opportunity of comparing the rhetoric of honourable members opposite with what I am about to read as a catalogue of their promises and undertakings if they came into office. I think it is important for people to be aware that Labor has not given any undertakings to reduce government expenditure and it has not identified any areas in which it would cut the expenditure proposed by this Government using taxpayers funds. What Labor supporters have done throughout the last year has been to produce a most extraordinary catalogue of promises and undertakings to every vested interest group throughout Australia. Quite frankly, there is no way that they can claim that their proposals are consistent with a low tax policy. 
Governments do not do anything with their own money. Governments do  not earn money.  Governments impose taxes to get money to carry out their objectives. If a government is to expand its level of activity, it can do so by only two or perhaps three methods, as I understand it, and they all have quite clear consequences. Government can increase taxation. I have not heard any honourable member opposite advocating that. Government can go to the printing presses. I know that Pickering has observed that that is a distinct prospect under a Labor government. That action, of course, leads to marked increased inflation with all the resultant consequences as we know. The third method is for government to go into the monetary markets and raise the money in competition with private borrowers, which forces up interest rates. I have not heard honourable members opposite seek to explain away the catalogue of promises that they have made in terms of how they in government would fund those promises. 
I will go through the catalogue of items which I have extracted from all the statements that I have been able to find, and it is probably only half of them. 
-I do not have to talk to him. He observed them as well and he produced a very abridged catalogue the other day in the speech which he delivered at the Liberal Party convention in New South Wales. Honourable members will be able to find in that speech a brief summary of the items that I am about to list. In fact, this list is so long that I will probably ask to have it incorporated in  Hansard  if I do not have sufficient time to go through it. 
-I ask leave of the House to move a motion to amend the resolution of appointment of the Joint Committee on the Family Law Act to extend the time for the bringing up of the report of the Committee. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) That paragraph (12) of the resolution of appointment of the Joint Committee on the Family Law Act be omitted and that the following paragraph be substituted: 
12) That the Committee report by 31 May 1980 and any member of the Committee have power to add a protestor dissent to any report. '. 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting its concurrence. 
The motion establishing the Joint Committee on the Family Law Act was moved by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in the Senate on 17 August. Paragraph 12 provided that the Committee report to the Parliament by 3 1 December 1979. It was reasonable, at that stage, for the Attorney-General to expect that the Committee should be able to report by the end of 1979 although honourable members were no doubt aware that it was extremely unlikely that the Parliament would be sitting on New Year's Eve. However, the passage of the motion through Parliament was not as rapid as might have been expected by the Attorney when he moved it. Amendments were made to the resolution in the House, requiring the concurrence of the Senate. Because of the interest of members in the inquiry, the matter of nominations of members to sit on the Committee was not finalised until 12 October 1978. The first meeting of the Committee took place on 18 October 1978. Submissions were called for by 31 December 1978. The inquiry did not really get under way until February of this year, when public hearings commenced. Nor could the Parliament or the Committee have been expected to anticipate the tremendous public interest in the inquiry, which has resulted in the Committee receiving 485 written submissions. 
The Committee has worked extremely hard and has pursued the inquiry relentlessly since its first public hearing on 8 February. It has conducted public hearings in all State capitals, except Brisbane, where it will meet for a public hearing on 24 September. The transcript it has taken now comprises some 5,500 pages of evidence. Since its appointment the Committee has accumulated a substantial body of information, both local and international, bearing on the inquiry. In that regard, I have recently returned from a study tour of Europe and North America, during which I gathered substantial data on family law  systems in  other countries with comparable jurisdictions. The Committee has accumulated a wealth of facts and knowledge and will require time to assess and process this information. A series of private meetings with selected experts is being undertaken to examine particular issues. Consultation on this basis is a comparatively new technique in parliamentary committee work. These meetings will cover topics where difficulties have been identified, such as the position of children under the Act, custody, maintenance, property and the organisation of the Family Court. 
As all honourable members are aware, the issues for inquiry by the Committee are complex and diverse in their implications and it is considered that more time to finish the inquiry is needed. In these circumstances, the Committee has agreed that it would not be able to do justice to the inquiry if it attempted to rush through a report simply to meet the deadline contained in the resolution of appointment. The Committee believes that a more considered and substantial report on the many issues that this reference has raised will be possible only if an extension of time for the report is obtained. The Committee believes that it could report to the Parliament by the middle of the Autumn sittings in 1980, and will direct its efforts to presenting its report to both Houses shortly after Easter next year and certainly by the end of the Autumn sittings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have listened with interest to the speeches in this debate, particularly that of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  who has just spoken. I noted the emphasis he put on scepticism and, particularly, what he described as the scepticism of the security cult. From listening to his speech, as he described what he saw in our security organisation in Australia, one could be forgiven for believing that one had been listening to the total sceptic. He described honourable members who defend security organisations and who have a concern for the world in which we live as having some paranoic fear. I wish that he had been in the chamber to listen to some of the speeches of his colleagues earlier. He may also have detected some paranoia on his side of the House in the feelings that Opposition members have about persecution and what information security organisations might be keeping about them. If he was so convinced in his scepticism about the adequacy of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation one would have thought that he would have been able to convince his colleagues to take one certain line, that is, the line he took which suggested that ASIO is an organisation unworthy of worry and concern. I was even surprised that he wanted to come into the chamber and support the amendment when he was so sceptical about ASIO and its adequacy. In the end he managed to get into the rhetoric. One might be forgiven for making a passing reference to another of those terms that some of our doctors use. Perhaps he was almost schizophrenic in the way in which he described ASIO as being totally ineffective and yet being an organisation that had to be feared in the way in which he described it towards the end of his speech. 
The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  and the honourable member for Lalor both attempted to offer for the Labor Party their intellectual justification for attacking this legislation and the purposes behind having a security organisation. The honourable member for Bonython was critical in his address because he saw security organisations as being necessary in maintaining a police state, an autocracy. He did not think that a strong democracy needed a security organisation. The honourable member for Lalor took a similar view in his understanding of what a democracy is about. He could not foresee situations in which even a strong democracy could be undermined by a very small group of people who had no belief in the system we have and no commitment to maintaining it. I must say that I find such a view naive in the extreme. 
We could look at what the British are finding in Northern Ireland today. Some people are no longer living under the sort of code they followed before. The problem no longer involves the old religious dispute between the Protestants and the Catholics. A marxist organisation consisting of a small number of people is determined to overthrow the state. It is not prepared to allow these matters to be worked out by intelligent human beings in the way in which I believe that they can be worked out. 
-I am referring quite specifically to a small group of people who we now know are quite active in the United Kingdom and throughout Northern Ireland, who are no longer supported by the mainstream elements which might have differences of opinion, and who are quite determined to adopt the most indefensible techniques to bring about change and to bring down governments. We have seen the methods they have adopted. I do not intend to go any further along that particular line, but let me quote Golda Meir. In looking at why we need security organisations I think it is important to bear these sorts of matters in mind. She said: 
. this is a problem of democracies. Because a country is democratic, must everything be known? 
This is the view which is taken by honourable members opposite. She continued: 
Must we weaken ourselves and strengthen our enemies? In democracies we think all countries are like ourselves. Unfortunately . . . they are not. 
I do not think it can be summed up better than that. 
There has been a great deal of distortion and half truth about this legislation. It has been suggested by a great number of the critics that this legislation is creating an organisation that will have quite extensive powers over individuals. One would almost think that its members would be able to arrest people and do all sorts of other things that might in some way restrict the freedom of the individual. But in fact the Organisation does not have powers to do this. The Organisation is one which- I intend to quote its functions briefly in a moment- clearly cannot do that. But if we look at a lot of the articles which have been published in the prelude to this debate, we see reference to terms such as 'ASIO interference'. That came from an article in the  National Times  of 5 May. In an article headed Unpleasant ASIO facts',  Mrs Joan  Coxsedge puts the view that ASIO ought to be able to bring in spies, as it were.  Her  criticism is in these terms: 
ASIO has failed to bring to book a single spy, traitor, saboteur or terrorist. 
I guess she has the same sort of scepticism as the honourable member for Lalor. But if honourable members would look at the functions and powers of this Organisation as they are set out in section 1 7 of the Bill they will recognise that its functions are those of a reporting body. It is a body whose purpose it is to gather information, and the Bill is designed to support it in this intelligence gathering role. It does not have a role to arrest people, detect spies or put people in gaol. Section 17 reads: 
1 ) The functions of the Organization are- 
to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security; 
b ) for purposes relevant to security and not otherwise, to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as are appropriate to those purposes; and 
to advise Ministers and authorities of the Commonwealth in respect of matters relating to security, in so far as those matters are relevant to their functions and responsibility. 
It is not a function of the Organization to carry out or enforce measures for security within an authority of the Commonwealth. 
It is quite clear that this legislation is designed to create for ASIO a charter under which it can carry out its functions with greater certainty than has been possible before. It is certainly legislation which is designed to implement reforms, and nobody apologises for that. It was designed to implement the reforms that came about as a result of the report that was quoted in part by the honourable member for Lalor. These reforms were recommended by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security constituted by  Mr Justice  Hope, after a most thorough investigation. Certainly I believe they were a result of a considered approach by a judge for whom I have a great deal of time. He is someone whom I have known as a judge of the Supreme Court of New 
South Wales, someone who has balanced his approach against the threats that I perceive exist in the world in which we live- the threats which exist to our society from people who do not have the same values as I have. I would hope that in this debate we can see a constructive approach to this legislation so that any shortcomings may be overcome. As I go on in my address tomorrow, I hope to be able to indicate why I do not believe the general proposals that have been advanced by the Opposition are acceptable. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last evening, prior to the debate being interrupted, I indicated generally my strong support for this Bill and the associated legislation. I indicated that the Bill does give effect substantially to the second and fourth reports of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security headed by  Mr Justice  Hope. I indicated that the purpose of the legislation was to place the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in a new structure and that its powers and functions had been redefined as a result of that inquiry. I also pointed out that a major security appeals tribunal is to be established and that the Bill also deals with the staffing of ASIO. In supporting the legislation, I indicated why there was a need for a balanced approach- an approach which recognised the importance of obtaining intelligence and security information and balancing that against the needs of the community to have information in relation to the Organisation, but not so as to hamper the Organisation's work and effort. The Opposition has indicated that it does not oppose the concept of having a security organisation. Of course it has never done so. A Labor government was responsible, in part, for the formation of this organisation. Labor governments have been responsible for maintaining the Organisation and for the appointment of its personnel. But the fact of the matter is that some members of the Opposition have had a phobia about the Organisation. This was demonstrated most clearly by the speech yesterday of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and perhaps to a lesser degree by the speech of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  It has been indicated that the Opposition does not oppose the existence of ASIO. I suppose it is my term when I say it, but it seems clear to me that what the Opposition wants to do is gut the Organisation and make sure that it is not an effective security organisation. In fact, the honourable member for Reid said of the amendments that the Opposition has forshadowed: 'If we don't get our way in relation to these amendments, we will oppose the Bill all the way'. That was a decision of Caucus. 
The honourable member for Reid speaks with an obsession about this Organisation. It is the same sort of obsession as honourable members opposite have indicated they have about the result of the elections held recently in South Australia. I do not think that we ought be carried away by the obsessions of members of the Opposition in relation to those matters or in relation to this Organisation. But I do want to indicate what I think their amendments will do. I can do that best by paraphrasing each of the amendments so that honourable members can get an overall picture of what the Opposition is attempting to do. It wants firstly to ensure that annual reports are presented to the Parliament. I assume that the Opposition would not be satisfied with an annual report that just listed the name of the DirectorGeneral and said that the organisation had functioned; it would want information about the nature of the organisation, what it is doing and the way in which it exercises its special powers, particularly the powers that are designed to assist it in collecting information. 
The Opposition wants a regular, periodic judicial audit to be conducted to ensure that ASIO is operating in accordance with its charter, that it does not infringe civil liberties unjustifiably and that it is operating effectively and efficiently. Who would believe that we could have those sorts of inquiries continually without hampering the effectiveness of the organisation. I am not saying that it is not appropriate to have an inquiry when one knows that there is something wrong with an organisation, but if one is looking over the organisation's shoulder all the time, if one does not trust it in what it is doing, if one has a phobia about the way in which it is operating, one would want to have regular, periodic judicial reviews. Just imagine what it would do to the personnel working in that sort of organisation if they had somebody looking over their shoulder all the time. Like so many of the bureaucrats we have in our country today, they would be stifled of initiative, lose all their drive and lack the enthusiasm to want to bring any of their skills and abilities to assist in their task because they would not know who was going to report on them, dob them in, have an inquiry about them and be critical of their actions. If one wants that, if one wants the security organisation to be populated by people who are looking over their shoulder all the time to see who is watching them in that sense, then one will have an impotent organisation. 
The Opposition wants the responsible Minister to be fully informed by the Director-General of the Organisation in respect of any matter except the content of files of particular individuals. I refer honourable members to a statement on ASIO that was issued by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  at the beginning of this week. It was issued in response to an editorial in a Western Australian newspaper which picked up this point that the Opposition was suggesting. The Opposition wants to be able to get people into this House so that it can ask detailed questions about the operation of ASIO and say: 'Well, you 've got the information; you have to tell the House; you have to be responsible to Parliament'. That is what it will say. The Opposition is seeking to involve the responsible Minister directly in the operations of the Organisation, to have him in a position in which he is giving instructions as to the matters that ought to be dealt with and the way in which the Organisation ought to operate. The Attorney-General posed this question in relation to that suggestion. 
Does anyone really want the Minister to be able to tell the Director-General whether he should collect information on a particular individual or to whom information on a particular individual should be communicated or what advice should he given by the Director-General to a Minister or Department. 
Really, if anybody wanted ASIO to be used as a political organisation by the party which happens to be in office at a particular time he would seek to give it that power. Similarly, the Opposition 's requirements go on. It wants the Leader of the Opposition to be fully briefed on all aspects of the Organisation, including all the exercises of its special power. Again, it wants detail, it wants information which is more publicly available and which can be passed out, perhaps in the way in which information provided the other day to the Leader of the Opposition in relation to programs of development for rural electorates was passed out. The Leader of the Opposition was given certain information and then questions were handed out amongst honourable members opposite in an orchestrated way so that the information could be used in some way allegedly to embarrass the Government. 
-Of course it was a fizzer. But is that the son of thing that we want in relation to this body? I suggest that it is not. The Opposition wants proper financial accountability of the Organisation, including auditing of its accounts by the Auditor-General. The fact of the matter is that with that sort of accounting one then has an organisation that has to be paraded in the way in which other government departments are paraded through the Auditor-General's reports. 1 have looked at Auditor-General's reports and occasionally important matters of substance are revealed in those reports. But what it really means is that the Opposition wants to be able to get to detail about the way in which the Organisation is functioning. Who will that detail assist? Will it help the Opposition? Not in my view. Will it help the public? Not in my view. Will it help those who have no wish to protect our country and what we are about? In my view it is most likely to harm Australia 's interests. It will be of more advantage to Russian security organisationsthe KGB or something of that nature- for them to know how much money is going into ASIO, where it is spent and what are its priorities. If one has obsessions about this Organisation, I suppose one would want to see that sort of information because one would not be concerned about our overall security. The Opposition wants to bring out all of this information, as its amendments have suggested. There are some people in the Opposition who have such a phobia about this legislation that in my view they are prepared to put those phobias above this nation's security. 
If one goes on one will see that there are proposals to narrow the definitions of 'security' and subversion' and to narrow the scope of the inquiries that the Organisation might be able to make. The Opposition wishes to restrict the Organisation's special powers. The Opposition, along with one of my colleagues on this side of the House, wants to ensure that all persons who are the subject of a security report will be notified of the existence of any adverse assessment about them. I find this to be the most remarkable of all the Opposition's proposals. What the Opposition is saying is that if ASIO identifies a spy in the Commonwealth Public Service- someone who is in a fairly senior position and whose existence one does not wish to disclose for a whole lot of security reasons, such as wishing to see who his other contacts are- one ought to tell him that he has had an adverse security report, warn him that he had been found out and give him the opportunity to appeal. That is absolute nonsense, but it is typical of the proposals that the Opposition has put forward in order to destroy the effectiveness of an organisation that ought to be acting in the nation 's interests. 
-What has been suggested by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  is absolute nonsense. The fact of the matter is that the people who he is suggesting should not make a judgment in relation to the word 'ultimately' are called upon to make all sorts of other judgments in terms of the other definitions in this clause. Those definitions are quite sweeping. They include an assessment of the following:  activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely - 
Without the word 'ultimately'-  to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts ... for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; 
The people who he is suggesting should not do it in case of that one word 'ultimately' are the people who are going to be making the sweeping judgments, as he alleges, in relation to the balance of that clause and in relation to the whole scheme of this legislation. If he is not prepared to entrust it in that limited extent to the personnel, why is he prepared to entrust any of these decisions to those personnel? Obviously he is prepared to trust them to make those decisions, otherwise he would have voted against the whole scheme of the legislation. 
-I am not certain about that. Honourable members opposite have indicated general acceptance of the scheme of the legislation and the honourable member has accepted that by his votes to date. If he is going to vote in a different way, if he is going to oppose the clause entirely and vote against the legislation entirely, that may be another matter. The word 'ultimately' was dealt with by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in another place and it is perhaps timely that I read out why the Government believes that this word is important. I quote from the Senate  Hansard,  where the AttorneyGeneral is recorded as saying: 
The Government believes that anybody or any organisation which believes in and has a commitment to the use of force or violence at some future stage, even though it may not be engaged in such activities at the moment or may not even intend to engage in them in the near future, for the purposes of overthrowing the constitutional Government of this country should be regarded as subversive and should be kept under surveillance. 
The scheme of this legislation does not mean anything more than that the security organisation will obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security. So, in relation to the word 'subversion', again all the personnel are doing is obtaining, correlating and evaluating information. 
What honourable members opposite are suggesting is that, because we use the word 'ultimately' in relation to our definition of acts that might lead to the overthrowing of our constitutional government, that is an extension of a power which gives an organisation a significant control over the events of men and their lives. Of course that is not the case. The scheme of this legislation is to establish an organisation that is simply going to correlate, evaluate and collect information. I hasten to suggest to honourable members that, when we are looking at what organisations say they might want to do and perhaps looking at their constitutions, there is no certainty that they will tell us in an obvious way at all times that their intention is subversive. 
We have only to look at the Communist parties in Europe at the moment. The Italian Communist Party seems to be putting aside its objectives which it has had for a long time- with other Communist parties- ultimately to overthrow our systems of government. Now it has changed its tack. It is saying that it is not so concerned with this objective because it wants to win an election. At least we ought to have an awareness of what these parties are about. In making our judgments are we not entitled to look at what ultimately might be their purpose and objective? Now they might be saying that they are not interested in doing such a thing. It was and maybe still is in their platforms but they are putting that objective aside to create a facade, an image of moderation. Should we put aside such considerations and not be cautious when looking at what governments are doing? How can anyone have any objection to a little caution? 
All that is provided for in this legislation is the collecting of information- obtaining it, correlating it and evaluating it according to the functions set out in clause 1 7. That is the important test. That is all the Organisation is required to to. The word 'security' is defined in the Bill. Clause 5 seeks to qualify that definition. That is the scheme of it. It ought to be obvious to all honourable members that this is not an unreasonable provision. In my view it is certainly not something that can be categorised in the broad and sweeping way that it has been categorised by honourable members opposite. In my view and judgment the clause is deserving of the support of this Committee. 
-The speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was, to say the least, disappointing. I expect far more of him. I expect him not to indulge in descriptions of honourable members on our side of the chamber in the way in which he does. I expect him to bring greater credit on his office in leading for the Opposition and indicate that he can rise to a higher standard. The sort of innocence with which he has spoken - 

 -Mr Chairman, through you and in response to the remarks of the previous  speaker  - 
-What I am saying is very relevant to the clause we are debating. We have just been told that if a person advocates a new Constitution for this country or espouses in a peaceful way the establishment of a republic in Australia he will be in conflict with the definition of subversion in this clause. Nothing is further from the truth. There are three parts to the definition. The first deals with activities. The second deals with the way in which a person carries out an act. The third deals with the purpose of the act. Simply to advocate a new Constitution does not amount to subversion in terms of the three parts of this clause. Honourable members opposite have to understand that. A person has to indulge in activities which will lead to the use of force, violence or other unlawful acts for the purpose of overthrowing a constitutional government. Quite clearly, each of the three parts of this clause have to be satisfied. We have to consider what a person is ultimately likely to do and what it will lead to in terms of force, violence or other unlawful acts as well as the purpose of such acts. 
The simple advocating of a new Constitution for Australia would not be subversive in terms of the definition in this clause. The simple advocacy of a republic is not subversive. It is specious of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to suggest that it is or to suggest that we would like to stop his advocating that approach. I am quite happy to listen to his arguments. If he were convincing I would be happy to be persuaded. He has not been convincing to date. That is part of our system. We are not trying to undermine it. We want to look at the organisations which do not believe in our system. I am happy to talk about organisations of the right and any totalitarian organisations that do not permit people to have their own points of view. 
I would certainly not support any fascist regime. But I will not accept any suggestion by the honourable member that I might be a fascist. I would not support any totalitarian regime that does not permit different points of view. I am equally critical of the far Right as I am of the far Left. I am waiting for honourable members opposite to speak equally about the activities of the KGB as they do about the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency. I am waiting for them to look at the activities of that organisation in the same critical way as they look at those of the United States organisation. The United States is a country in which people can speak out. They have an opportunity to express their concerns. We have the same opportunity to do so when participating in this debate. We do not hear about the security organisations in communist countries. We do not hear about what might constitute subversion in those countries and about how their people are denied freedom of speech. I do not want to be restricted by any organisation that gives us the capacity to resist movements that want to take that freedom from us, regardless of whether they come from the Right or the Left. 
I am prepared to support a definition which enables us to do what the legislation will permit us to do, that is, simply to look at those movements. That is all we will be doing. It does not enable them to be arrested and it does not enable them to be taken in charge. If one goes on from that definition as to what is subversion- because it relates to security- and then looks at where security comes into the functions of the organisation one sees that Clause 1 7 states: 
) The functions of the Organisation are- 
To obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security; 
That is what its purpose is. It is to obtain, correlate and evaluate information. The Government is saying that if organisations have these sorts of subversive objectives- whether they want to make them overt in quite and obvious way or hide them in the bowels of their organisation- we ought to be able to look at them and be able to know what they are doing. I do not see how any reasonable person could object to that approach. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  May I just remind the honourable member that the amendment aims to omit the word 'ultimately'. I am under a disadvantage, having just assumed the chair. Would the honourable member care to return to the point in the remaining time as to why the word should remain or why it should be removed? 
-The word certainly should not be removed. I have given the reasons for that. What has been suggested in debate on this clause is that the arguments of honourable members on this side of the House have been in some way irrelevant; in some way they have been extreme; in some way they represent some extreme right wing point of view. I accept that the honourable member opposite was asked to withdraw the remark. He suggested that it evidenced some paranoia on my part in relation to security. I found that suggestion offensive. Quite properly the honourable member withdrew the inference. But the fact of the matter is that in terms of this debate people simply want to know, and want our security organisation to know, what is going on in organisations that are subversive. We are defining subversive so the community will know what these organisations are about and what we believe constitutes subversion so that these organisations can be monitored and our community and our Government will be informed through the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation being able to do that. 
The word 'ultimately' in this context is designed to give the organisation the capacity to be able to monitor those activities, whether the organisation wishes to hide its objective, whether it wants to try to put it aside in some surreptitious way, or whether it wants to indicate in an open way that it preaches subversion. It certainly does not- as has been suggested by honourable members opposite in this debate- prevent people from going out into the community and advocating a different form of democratic government. That was the suggestion. Honourable members opposite were suggesting that there was some fear that they should not or that they would be constrained not to go out and advocate a republic and that we do away with our monarchial system. They felt that they might be restricted in some way from going out to advocate, as a result of events that have taken place in this country, that there ought to be a different form of constitution. It is quite clear from the definition in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a) that they would not be prevented. The scheme of the legislation would not prevent them from doing it in any event because the scheme requires the organisation only to evaluate and collect information. I do not see how honourable members opposite would be worried about that, in any event. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  would probably send ASIO a copy of his speeches, I imagine, as he is so proud of what he has to say. 
How can one be afraid of advocating a course like that and be concerned- even if one could extend the wording in a way in which the Opposition has suggested- or scared of some organisation monitoring one's activities in support of that point of view? The Opposition ought to be proud of the position it is taking if it really believes it. I think that is the point of the matter. Whilst I would not want to be unparliamentary I suggest that if there is any paranoia in relation to these matters it is not on this side of the House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Before  I call on anyone I remind the Committee that the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  really spoke during the major part of his speech on clause S itself, which is the meaning of subversion when not of foreign origin. Obviously in debating clause 5 I, from the chair, must allow some reference to that. What I am anxious to have honourable members do in future speeches- I am at a disadvantage in that I have just assumed the chair- is to try to inform the Committee why the word 'ultimately' should or should not remain in the clause. That is what the amendment is all about. 
-Clause 5 (b) deals with activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance by the defence forces of their functions or the carrying out of other activities related to the security and defence of the Commonwealth. The Opposition is proposing that this clause be qualified by stating that the activities which obstruct or hinder our defence forces must be regarded as unlawful before the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation would be in a position to take some notice of them and to obtain, correlate or evaluate intelligence about them. This is a remarkable proposition. It would have been easier simply to remove the clause altogether than to characterise it as requiring some unlawful connotation before ASIO could become involved. If it is unlawful for people to do what they are doing, let the police deal with them. Perhaps it would be appropriate for some civil authority to move in and punish those who had carried out an unlawful activity. Why does the Opposition want to qualify the clause in this way? What is it attempting to achieve? It became quite clear that while the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  may have had other examples in mind- he referred to conscientious objectionhis intention was to protect the trade union movement and its right to act in any area in industrial disputes in any way it saw fit. What he is saying in effect is that even though such activity may obstruct, hinder or interfer with the performance of our defence forces it is, in his view and in the view of his Party, defensible. I find that suggestion quite objectionable. 
-It would not be unlawful unless a union was indulging in certain activities which were, by their character, unlawful. If it were maliciously damaging property or something of that nature such activity would be unlawful. The defence forces may be genuinely involved in the defence of the country. I am not referring to Vietnam which was necessarily related to a quasi political issue. Some people in the trade union movement might picket or refuse their labour in order to undermine the effort of our defence forces. The Opposition is saying that our security force would not be able to carry out its function of obtaining, correlating and evaluating intelligence in order to protect our defence forces. I regard that approach with a degree of abhorrence. Nobody wants to persecute unreasonably the trade union movement for its pursuit of its industrial causes. Other legislation deals with those matters in any event. But if its activities are directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance of our defence forces, surely we want information about them? 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is not designed to stop people from doing what they want to do. It is designed to collect intelligence information to enable us to be informed about their activities. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke of a guilty act. He directed his attention to these words and suggested that the activities would make somebody guilty of an act. That implies that some consequence in relation to a person's or a union's activities will arise from this legislation. No consequences flow from a person's directly obstructing, hindering or interfering with the performance of the defence forces except the consequence of allowing the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to collect and evaluate information about people who are carrying out those activities. How can the Opposition find that consequence objectionable in the context of our defence forces whose function it is to protect the security of the country? Let us not get hidebound in words designed to limit the function of the Ogranisation to collect information. Let us not circumscribe it in words such as 'unlawful'. That would mean that we would have to show that some other Act of Parliament had been breached before an activity could be reviewed and, in the words of the Act 'correlated and evaluated ' as intelligence information. 
This clause is a proper clause as it is drawn. It is a responsible function of the Security Organisation to protect our defence forces and collect information to ensure that it is free and able to carry out its proper role of defending and protecting this country. I strongly urge the Committee to reject this amendment and certainly not to curcumscribe this clause in such a way that would prevent ASIO from protecting our defence forces in the role they have to carry out for us all. 
-In a quiet way I would like to add to this discussion. Both sides of the chamber have cited examples. Some clearly represent legal or lawful actions which honourable members on this side of the chamber regard as being undesirable if they obstruct, hinder or interfere with the performance of the defence forces. Honourable members on the other side of the chamber have given examples of what might be described as lawful actions with which one would have no complaint. The nature of some of the examples given would not be harmful even to the extent that they may obstruct, hinder or interfere with the performance of the Defence Force in certain circumstances. Whilst we may be able to gather some examples of circumstances in which there would be a lawful act which we would not regard as being undesirable, the very fact that there are numbers of lawful activities- or as I put it earlier, permitted activities, because they have not been made unlawful by any specific statute- does not mean that it may not be very undesirable that such activity which obstructs, hinders or interferes with the performance of the Defence Force in its functions is not to be brought under notice. 
-I do not know that there would be necessarily a common law offence. There may be a common law offence. If there is then of course, in any event, the action would be encompassed by the inclusion of the word 'unlawful'. No, I am not suggesting that. I suggest if there were a suggestion in this place to make an activity illegal we would all in a bipartisan way want to make it illegal. But at this time in looking at an organisation and at the way in which it will and does function and at what it is required to do- bearing in mind that it is merely an information gathering organisation- we have to ask ourselves whether it is reasonable, in terms of the Opposition's approach, to fetter its investigations. I think that is what the Opposition wants to do. 
-In some respects one does not feel that one should be involved in the debate as much as one has been, but when one hears a speech like the one we have just heard from the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  one cannot fail to be exceedingly disappointed and with good reason because the honourable member has attempted to use exaggeration to persuade people that there is something sinister in clause 5 ( 1 ) (c). 
-It is not a question of quoting from the Hope report; it is not a question of quoting events of the past. It is a question of looking at the words that the honourable member has just used in his speech because what the honourable member has suggested is that the words in paragraph (c), which is under discussion and which the Opposition seeks to amend- and these are the words of the honourable member- are 'legislating to control human emotions in political terms'. No reasonable man looking at the words in this paragraph could say that the legislation is designed to control human emotions in political terms. No one in looking at the scheme of this paragraph could reasonably argue that it is the basis for persecution of individuals. No reasonable person picking up the words of the honourable member could look at the clause that is under discussion and say: 'That forms the foundation for the establishment of a police state'. These are the words that he was using in his address- emotive words- to try to describe what this Organisation would have the capacity to do. If one looks objectively at the clause, there is no way that one could construe it in that way. 
Let us go back to the clause and see what it is attempting to do. It is dealing with the definition of subversion, which is one of the operative words in defining security. Security is relevant because it is the basis upon which the Organisation is given a precise capacity to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence, that is, to obtain information. This clause in relation to subversion refers to activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons in the Australian community so as to endanger- I put emphasis on the word 'endanger'- the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. We have to look at the total scheme. We cannot just pick out the words that we want to pick out and say that subversion comprises activities directed to promoting violence or hatred. It is not that. The full wording has to be looked at. It refers to those activities directed to promoting hatred so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. In no way could any of the examples given by the honourable member for Cunningham- even if one wanted to give credence to his argument- involving pensioners or the unemployed could be construed as constituting the promotion of hatred between different groups so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. That is how far we have to go in our consideration. It is not a question of just promoting hatred. It is a question of promoting it to the extent that it endangers the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. I am repeating that a number of times because I suspect I have to do that to get it through to the honourable member for Cunningham. The fact of the matter is that there are quite specific examples - 
-I will come back to the matter of judgment in a moment. The fact of the matter is that examples have been given and I think the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  picked a good one, of how people can promote hatred between people of different racial or religious backgrounds- we have seen it in some countries of the world and we do not want it here- to such a degree that the peace, order or good government of a country can be endangered. Who would not at least want to know what those people are doing? Who would not at least want to know what they were about? It is not a matter of persecuting people, turning the country into a police state; it is a question of finding out that information and making it available to the Government. That is all ASIO does. It does not pick people up in the street, take them off to gaol and prosecute them in the courts. It is merely an organisation for collecting information. 
The honourable member for Cunningham, who interjected a little while ago, asked who was to make these judgments. Of course, the person who primarily or ultimately has to make the judgment is the Director-General. What we have heard is that that man is a most outstanding individual. Honourable members opposite have lauded his praises right through this debate. They have spoken of  Kim  as having the highest qualities and being a most suitable DirectorGeneral. Honourable members opposite take pride in having appointed  Mr Justice  Woodward. Ultimately, when a judgment has to be made- if there is any concern about it- it is the judgment of the Director-General. He is a man in whom we have a great deal of faith. In terms of what the Opposition has accepted without offering further amendments, he is a man in whom we have already put a great deal of trust. We can take it further. Look at the other individuals in the Organisation who may have to make some determinations. They are the individuals in whom for other purposes, even accepting the amendments proposed by honourable members opposite, that trust has been placed. The honourable member for Cunningham is asking: 'Why would you trust that person with this decision in relation to whether the activity is directed to promoting hatred? Why trust that same individual in relation to activities directed to promoting violence? If we do not trust him in relation to hatred, why trust him in relation to violence?' The fact is that somebody has to have that responsibility. It is appropriate that ultimately it will be in the hands of the Director-General. Of course we trust him. The Opposition trusts him in relation to most matters, but some Opposition members are not prepared to trust him in relation to this matter. I find that argument quite specious. 
There are situations which, on the balance of probabilities, warrant surveillance and warrant our being aware of certain activities because of their very nature, particularly those directed to promoting violence or hatred between groups that endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth, which have the character described by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  On the balance of probabilities, there are probably many of those circumstances. There might be circumstances which, notwithstanding the qualifications I have made about the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth, could still be a little more innocent in terms of the description used by the honourable member for Cunningham. We have to make a judgment as to whether circumstances which come within this definition ought to be the subject of surveillance. I acknowledge that there may be some difficulty in defining the matter, but Opposition members ought to give credit to the Government for the fact that, rather than just talking about subversion and leaving it to somebody else to think about that might be subversive, it has attempted to define it. 
The Opposition has not offered any other form of words in an effort to come to grips with the sorts of problems mentioned by the honourable member for Lilley. If Opposition members were serious about the matter they would have offered some alternative; they would have considered the difficulties with which we have to deal and would have been prepared to make reasonable offers. The Opposition has had opportunities to do that. This is the second opportunity it has had, having in mind its caucus method of making decisions, to proffer alternative amendments. The Opposition is giving us the same amendments as have already been debated in another place. It is fixed. It has determined its position. The same amendments are proposed. We would like to see some flexibility. We would like the Opposition to take a different position and be constructive in these matters. We might then be in a better position to consider alternative propositions. If the Opposition were genuine it would offer alternatives. I suspect that it is not genuine. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I very much regret the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  on this provision. He is attempting to undermine the very process of conciliation. What he has just said to this Committee is that if a person who is going to hear a case, a commissioner, has to consult with somebody outside the industrial process, that person outside in some way will be making the decision. That is not what the clause means, and I will come to that in a moment. But clearly, in suggesting that it means that the  deputy president  will make the decision without having heard the evidence, the honourable member is undermining the very system of conciliation- by suggesting an interpretation of this clause which cannot be construed as the proper interpretation by the very words in the clause. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  cannot tell the honourable member what he asked. He can tell us what is in the Government's mind when it proposes an amendment to the principal Act. He cannot say what the clause will ultimately mean because it has to be interpreted as an Act of Parliament, like all other Acts of Parliament, by judges and the people involved in the administration of the system and, ultimately, those who have to interpret the matter if it goes to appeal. We all know that this is the way in which these decisions are made. The Minister can state the evil that we are endeavouring to remedy with this provision. 
What the honourable member opposite has to do, as I have done and as any reasonable person would have done, is to look at the words used. The word 'consult' is not a strange word. We have discussed the word 'consult' which appears in large numbers of Bills that have recently been before us. We discussed the word in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We had long debates over the meaning of the word 'consult'. The Government undertakes, in the ASIO legislation, to consult with the Leader of the Opposition. That does not give the Leader of the Opposition a veto. If that had been the interpretation in the ASIO legislation the Opposition would have been cock-a-hoop at that prospect. The Opposition does not glean that to be the interpretation of the word 'consult'. The Opposition argues that the Leader of the Opposition needs further power to be involved in ASIO to give the Opposition some insight into ASIO's operation. Clearly, the word 'consult' means a discussion at which one says what one has in mind and listens to another's views. Then a decision is made. The commissioner will still make the decision. Nobody outside the system will make a decision, but the commissioner will be aware, by this requirement- the words plainly state and one has only to read them- from the presidential member of the panel that was involved in fixing wage structures generally of the factors that the panel had in mind. He would not be left making a decision in vacuum without an awareness of the wider factors. That is the requirement. That is what the words say and that is how any reasonable person is going to interpret them. 
-Because we know that there is no requirement for the commissioners to consult and to speak to their colleagues and those involved on that panel- Commissioner Deverall was one- who have made decisions that on the face of it were clearly out of line with all the other decisions that were made in that area. 
-I will tell the honourable member what is the difference and I will tell him why it is so important. It is very important and fundamental to one of the questions upon which honourable members opposite have been harping in debates in this place for some time. It is important to the question of unemployment. Whether one likes it or not there are some people who can make wage demands in a situation in which their jobs will never be in jeopardy. I refer to those who have particular skills or who work in areas in which there is a local industry or where there are particular demands for the product and it cannot be imported and the work cannot be done by a little man in Japan. Then that skill is in demand in Australia. Such people can seek wages, using their bargaining power, out of line with any reasonable wage that can be paid to other people who work in areas in which there is genuine competition, where if they price themselves out of business they lose their jobs. That is the situation. On the question of relativities, some people in this community are able to use their bargaining power to get inordinately large wages. Some of them have wages higher than those of members of parliament. 
-Yes. Look at those people who have been building pipelines, those people who have been operating in certain mining situations and so on. They are getting more money than the honourable member opposite, if one excludes his investments. 
-I do not know whether the honourable member is speaking for himself, but certainly most of his colleagues, from my experience, work a darned sight harder and longer hours than one would expect anybody in a factory to work. The very point that I am making is that those people who are in that peculiar bargaining position are able to seek more than others. They can use their bargaining position to say: 'This is an industrial dispute and you have to take into account these very special factors, so give us more'. Other workers may be in an area in which there is competition and their employer may lose his ability to compete in the manufacture of motor cars, engines or any number of things - 
-I know a great deal about it. Those people- and some of them are in the metal industries- find that they are without a job when their employers are forced to pay wages which bear no relationship to the area in which they are competing. 
-I am fascinated by the extent to which the course of this debate has changed. I listened with interest to the second speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  when he referred to the way in which the commissioner might construe this provision. He indicated that after hearing the explanation of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  he did not feel that the points he had made earlier carried as much weight as he thought they did when he spoke on the first occasion. He argued in much more reasonable tones, and I think the points he made can be more easily accepted as a result. I am more fascinated by the direction in which the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has moved. What he just said, was and I quote of course, the commissioners consult'. He indicated that if consulting were given the meaning which we all know and understand it has, one could have no objection to consultation taking place. He then went on to put a rather extended interpretation on this particular clause if the word 'direct' were used and said that the Opposition disagreed with the provision. That is fair enough, but apparently the Opposition has no objection to consultation. 
Of course commissioners consult already. This clause simply requires the commissioners to do what they are already doing and what the honourable member for Melbourne says is not unreasonable. In that case, how could Opposition members have any objection? 
Because there might be one or two who do not consult. What the honourable member says is happening now, that is, that the commissioners consult, is to be regularised. The consultation is quite proper and is to be expected. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has suggested that this particular provision might be open to challenge. Of course, if one were providing for the situation which occurred in the Victorian Railways case- in that case there was no hearing and the facts were not heard before a determination was arrived atthere might be some basis for challenge. If there were so obvious a breach of the rules of natural justice, the matter might be challenged. We need to understand the situation that was being dealt with in the dispute between the Australian Railways Union and the Victorian Railways. The judge who dealt with that case said: 
A law which enables a body of persons to settle a dispute by issuing a decree arrived at by discussion amongst themselves without any hearing or determination between the disputants is . . . not a law with respect to Conciliation and Arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes and is not authorised by the Section 51 (XXXV) of the Constitution. 
The court was dealing with a situation in which the parties had been excluded from discussions amongst the body of persons who were to settle the dispute. That is not what is being provided for in this legislation. To try to impute that it is by referring to cases such as the Victorian Railways case which dealt with a very specific matter is quite unreasonable. Even the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  who respectfully suggested that I had some lack of capacity because I allegedly had dealt mainly with conveyancing matters whereas he had dealt mainly with criminal law, suggested - 
-I just want to indicate the sensitivity of people when their credentials are impugned in such a patronising manner, as was done by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports a little while ago. If he wants to be patronising in relation to these matters instead of arguing the case on its merits, he will have to learn that other people can dish it out as well. I do not like doing it. I do not think it adds to the debate and I hope that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and I can be good friends and argue the matter on its merits rather than by impugning each other's capacity, based upon his experience to look at the words in a clause and construe them properly. Having got that into perspective, perhaps we can go ahead and honestly look at the words. The meaning of consultation, is clear and, as I have pointed out already in this debate, using the words of the honourable member for Melbourne, if all we are requiring the commissioners to do is to consult, there is nothing unreasonable about this clause. I hope that that matter has been clarified now and that honourable members opposite will support the clause. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he has had private discussions with the Catholic bishops on the report on unemployment prepared for them by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. Have there been any developments as a result of those discussions? 
I want to discuss the concept of a bipartisan approach which we have heard about in this debate. I would like to think that a bipartisan approach was possible; that there could be some degree of conciliation and some recognition of what has already been achieved. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  indicated that he was of the view that he had already compromised himself in some way by agreeing to the amendment that the Opposition has put. He said that he would have gone much further, and that in some way this amendment was a compromise. Equally, the original Bill has been changed significantly to the extent that the Leader of the Opposition is to be involved. It was not in the Senate that those amendments were made. Honourable members might recall that before this Bill emerged and was presented in the Senate the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  made a speech in this place in which he indicated that as a result of certain discussions and the expression of views by honourable members on the Government side the Leader of the Opposition was to be involved. 
Clearly there has been a bipartisan approach and a considerable movement by the Government to accommodate the views of the Opposition. Yet we are being told that the Government is not being genuinely bipartisan because it has not gone all the way and accepted the position adopted by members of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Lalor, for instance, said: 'I would have taken a much firmer position. I would not have yielded to such an extent if it were up to me'. That is a strange way of looking at a bipartisan approach. There ought to be some recognition and acknowledgement of the extent to which the Government has already gone in accepting alterations to the legislation. 
It is important to look at the officer in whose hands rests the responsibility for warrants and the insurance of warrants. That officer is the Attorney-General. It is not any Minister of the Crown; it is the Attorney-General, the principal law officer of the Government. The AttorneyGeneral is a person who has different responsibilities. As a member of the Government he frequently sees those responsibilities differently from others. There are certain conventions in the way in which he operates. Recently an AttorneyGeneral resigned because he felt that he was being asked by his Government to act in a way which was different from the way in which he thought the Government should be asking him to act. That is a matter that is often commented upon by honourable members opposite. As the principal law officer of the Commonwealth, not any Minister, he will have a function to exercise. Honourable members opposite are asking that a person without the responsibilities of the Attorney-General, namely the Leader of the Opposition, be given the same information, or at least a substantial part of the information, that is put before the Attorney-General when the Attorney-General makes a decision whether to issue a warrant. Certainly the Leader of the Opposition is a person who has responsibilities, and his colleagues have a great deal of confidence in him. But he is not sworn, as is a Minister of the Crown or the Attorney-General, to accept certain obligations and commitments. We have already been told by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that he would make his own judgments as to how it was right and proper to deal with the information that he received. We have already been told that he would see his responsibility as follows: If a person asked him to inquire whether a warrant had been issued in relation to him, and he found that a warrant had not been issued he would assure that person that a warrant had not been issued. If he was contacted by a person against whom a warrant had been issued for a good and proper cause, he would say: 'Tut, tut. I am sorry. I cannot tell you whether a warrant has been issued '. According to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, if anybody else rang and wanted to know whether a warrant had been issued, that person would be told: 'No warrant has been issued'. If someone rang him up, that person would be able to find out very simply whether a warrant had been issued. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would simply say: 'I cannot tell you'. If that was the case the person would know that he was on the list. 
-That is what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said would happen if the information was entrusted to the Leader of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite have got to live with what they say. 
-But that is what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said to us during this debate. By way of example he said that was the way in which this information would be used. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. J. D. M. Dobie)- There is no point of order. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has entered into the debate in an attempt to defuse what I have been saying. I made the point from the example given by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The fact of the matter is that that was the example that he gave to us. 
-What he is saying to me now is that if the Attorney-General said 'Do not disclose the information that I have given to you in relation to whom warrants have been issued', he would not disclose that information. That is what he is saying. 
-I do not think that is the basis upon which to make judgments as to whether or not there should be an amendment to an Act of Parliament to give certain rights to a person who, as an individual, will give certain undertakings. If he is replaced by an individual who does not give that undertaking- the undertaking is not recognised in the legislation- the legislation would have to be amended to say that the Attorney-General should refrain from giving to the Leader of the Opposition information about warrants. Whether that information ought to be made available to a Leader of the Opposition would depend upon whether that Leader of the Opposition had given the appropriate undertaking. According to the honourable member that is what it would be dependent upon. 
-That is what it would be dependent upon. 
-If the honourable member wants to refer to those points he is changing his argument. The point I made relates to sub-clause ( 1 ) of proposed new clause 7a. It proposes that information in relation to warrants be made available to the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member is saying that jeopardy to our security system would be avoided by an undertaking given by the present Leader of the Opposition. That is what he is saying. I am saying to him that the whole scheme of the legislation would be dependent upon whether or not that particular Leader of the Opposition gave an undertaking. I do not think that it is the appropriate way for legislation to be drafted. 
Sub-clause (2) of proposed new clause 7A deals with a different question, that of the Director-General having to inform the Leader of the Opposition whether there is in existence any file, dossier or record concerning a particular person. The amendment assumes that the existence of a file implies that a particular person is adversely known to ASIO. Again one then has to recognise, on the basis of the argument I was offering in relation to the other clause, that if no file exists and if that person finds out from inquiry to the Leader of the Opposition that no file on him exists- unless that same undertaking is going to be given in relation to proposed new clause 7a (2)- that same person on inquiring whether his civil liberties have been affected could, by asking whether there was a file on him, find out whether he was known to ASIO and draw certain deductions from that. Would it not be nice for a spy if he were able to go along to ASIO and, by asking whether a file was kept on him, find out whether ASIO was monitoring him? What the Opposition is saying is that in a bipartisan way we ought to give that information to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. J. D. M. Dobie)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I regret the comments made by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the inferences he drew from the degree of participation in this debate. In fact one would have to be somewhat provoked to want to participate in this debate. I find it quite delightful to be able to sit back and see emerging from honourable members opposite the differences in attitudes towards the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If honourable members listened, as I did, to the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  it became quite clear he did not agree with the provisions - 
We are watching anxiously to see whether the Opposition decides to vote other than in accordance with Caucus directions. Then we will find out whether honourable members opposite are a party of principle or whether they are really only offering pious comments in relation to these matters. We wait for the day when one of them decides on a matter of principle to join us on this side of the Parliament. I guess that I will be waiting probably for a long time. If we put that aside, the differences are emerging very clearly. The honourable member for Cunningham believes that the term used by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  ought to be a reality and that, as he described it, we ought to take the Nixonian approach. He believes that the security force ought to be subject of ministerial control absolutely. That is the proposition he put. In other words, he believes that the security force ought to have the capacity to be the political force of the government of the day. That is what has emerged from this debate. 
I found it very profitable to sit back and listen to those sorts of distinctions emerging in a debate on a clause which honourable members opposite do not appear to understand. I hasten to add that they ought to read the debates that took place in the Senate. From the words spoken by their colleagues, who had a greater capacity to judge the legal merits of these provisions, honourable members opposite might have found that there was a commendation for the approach that this Government has taken. I refer to the comments made by  Senator Evans.  I will come to those comments in a moment because I intend to quote them. They might bring this debate back into some sort of perspective. Clause 8 speaks about the control of the Organisation. 
-Clause 8 reads: 
. The Organization shall be under the control of the Director-General. 
I am listening for a further 'Right' from the honourable member for Batman. If we read subclause 2, clearly, as it ought to be read, we will see that the scheme of the legislation is to give to the Director-General of Security the right to control the Organisation but subject to the general directions, not directions as to detail of the Minister. Sub-clause (2) states that those directions shall not empower the Minister to override the opinion of the Director-General. What are we talking about? We are talking about the professional opinion formed by the DirectorGeneral, as an independent statutory officer, and we are talking about those matters on which he is entitled to form an opinion. 
The amendment proposed by the Opposition leaves paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-clause (2) intact. So we come to paragraph (c). It talks about the Director-General forming an opinion concerning the nature of advice that he is giving to a Minister. We are saying that the Minister cannot give him directions as to how he will form that opinion. The Minister will not tell the Director-General to tell the Minister what he thinks. It would be preposterous to imagine that the Director-General could be told by his Minister- and this is what the amendment suggests: 'Please tell me that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is a spy'. If the Minister could give directions as to the nature of the advice, the Minister could give the Director-General directions to provide him with advice such as I have suggested. That is what it is all about. The clause clearly provides that the Minister will not be able to direct the Director-General as to the nature of the advice that he must give to him. I would have thought that that was a provision well worthy of support. 
If we go to the scheme of the legislation it is perhaps worth while if I direct the attention of the honourable member for Cunningham to some of the comments made by  Senator Durack  in the Senate.  Senator Durack  quoted from some earlier debates in which two distinguished leaders of political parties in this place - 
Yes. I am going to quote from a distinguished leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Dr Evatt,  and from a distinguished leader on this side of the Parliament,  Sir Robert  Menzies. The honourable member for Cunningham raised the question of control. He wanted ministerial control. He raised the prospect of a political security organisation as Prime Minister  Mr Menzies  said: 
It is clearly impossible, and in any event undesirable, for a Minister to exercise in this field the same degree of supervision and authority that he exercises in his own department. The proper course, in the Government's view, is to make the Director-General responsible for the due control of his service and to allow the measure of authority of the responsible Minister to be worked out, as in the past, by convention and in the light of the circumstances of the time. 
These proposals are an endeavour to work out that authority in some more detail following the comments of  Mr Justice  Hope. I will come to those comments in a moment. The then Leader of the Opposition did not suggest that it ought to be ministerial control. He had this to say: 
I do not believe that the people of Australia would approve of an organisation like this unless it were perfectly clear that there was, at any rate, a political officer responsible for it, in a general way - 
I underline the words 'in a general way'- to the Parliament and the people. By that, I do not mean responsible for the detailed working out of all the problems of the Organization, or anything of that kind. 
Those were the words of the former distinguished Leader of the Opposition, and I think they are words well worth remembering. I want now to turn to the remarks of  Senator Evans.  They deal with the scheme. Some honourable members opposite were critical of these provisions. The honourable member for Cunningham said that we had taken no notice of what  Mr Justice  Hope said in this regard. He quoted  Mr Justice  Hope. 
-Thank you, but I would rather take the opinion of the honourable senator. I know that  Senator Evans  has some legal training. I do not know that about the honourable member for Cunningham. 
-Senator Evans has a greater capacity to be able to understand the way in which lawyers, who interpret these matters, and who are often left with the responsibility of deciding what this Parliament means, would react. The honourable member for Cunningham is offering his opinion as against that of  Senator Evans.  I accept  Senator Evans'  opinion. At page 1395 of the Senate  Hansard,  Senator Evans  is recorded as saying: 
This is one of the few instances, as we see it, in which the Government has departed from  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations in a more liberal rather than illiberal direction. We saw  Mr Justice  Hope 's recommendations - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)- 
The position is that if the matter is relevant to the debate it is in order for an honourable member to quote. 
-I wish to quote only two more sentences. I certainly do not have to draw upon the distinguished senator to the extent suggested. Most of my time may have been used up and I encourage honourable members to read what was said.  Senator Evans  continued: 
We saw  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations as allowing too much room for limitation of the scope of ministerial power and responsibility, allowing too much residual authority to the Director-General. We regard the Government as having seized upon the correct principle in identifying those areas which should be left to the Director-General and not subjected to detailed ministerial direction by reference to security information relating to particular individuals. 
They are the words of the honourable member's colleague and clearly words of approval of the Government 's approach to this clause. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Regarding the point of order raised by the honourable member for Lalor, Standing Order 72 reads: 
No Member may allude to any debate or proceedings of a current session in the Senate, or to any measure pending therein, unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion: Provided that this standing order shall not prevent reference to a ministerial statement in the Senate. 
It is a very fine point. Without doubt what the honourable member for Dundas was quoting was relevant to this debate but I think he rather exceeded the intent of the Standing Order by quoting extensively from a debate in the Senate. But strictly speaking, it could be maintained that what he was quoting was relevant to the debate. 
I am fascinated by the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I suspect it was the sort of speech that ought to have been delivered in the general debate rather than now because it obviously had very wide-ranging implications and went to the fundamental nature of the legislation. If one takes the trouble to look at some of the speeches on the nature of the Bill generally it would be appreciated that the scheme of the legislation is to enable a security organisation to collect information. Now, I do not know what is altogether sinister about the collection of information. There may be something sinister about the way in which information is handled or the way in which it is disposed of or what is done with it when we get it, perhaps. I do not know. What we have to look at is the action that is taken. Simply, an organisation is set up to collect information and that is what it is about. I find it difficult to get persuaded emotionally by the sort of speech that I have just heard. 
I do encourage honourable members to look at the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh because he brought out very clearly the point I made in relation to the earlier discussion on clause 8. It concerned the differences which are emerging from honourable members opposite in relation to this legislation. It would be interesting to see whether it will appear ultimately in their voting pattern, and whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh will vote against this clause because obviously the amendment that is proposed does not do what he is asking for. 
If the honourable member for Hindmarsh genuinely believes that members of parliament are entitled by divine right to all information simply because some public servants in a particular organisation have access to that informatlar organisation have access to that ion- that seems to be the approach also of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)-  I would say he has a seconder for the proposal that he might want to advance. We would like to see the honourable member propose an amendment seriously if he had a different view from that of his colleagues in relation to this clause. We would like to see the honourable member exhibiting the democratic trends that are just emerging slightly in relation to this Bill, instead of the Australian Labor Party settling the position behind closed doors. I have no trouble in opposing this amendment in its entirety for the reasons that have been outlined by my colleagues. 
I want to point out that the amendment certainly does not do what the honourable member for Hindmarsh is wanting it to do. It does not do what the honourable member for Cunningham wants it to do. Honourable members opposite clearly recognise the problems inherent in the addresses that we have just heard from the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Honourable members recognise that there are dangers involved in ensuring that a file on an individual person, collected for quite malicious political reasons, if put in the hands of the Government of the day- no matter which government it iscould be used in a most harmful way. I put it to honourable members opposite that not only might a file or a dossier be used in that way, but also the very existence of a file, and the fact that we know that there is a file on any individual can be used in the same adverse way with the same harm to the individual. 
Clearly there is nothing in what is proposed by the Opposition that would indicate that the Minister, if he requested information as to whether there was a file or not, would have to be advised as to whether the fact that there was a file kept on the person meant that there was information adverse to his reputation to be found within that file. It may be that a person was simply seen innocently in the company of somebody else. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  mentioned a case in New Zealand. It was later proved that somebody who had been seen in the company of someone else was innocent. A file was kept on that person. The implication is that if a file is kept on an individual he is known adversely to the security organisation. That is all the information that the Opposition would want the Minister to know. I do not think that there is any virtue in a provision that enables the Minister to have half the information. 
The amendment is nonsense. If the Opposition were serious about this amendment perhaps it could pick up the amendment suggested the honourable member for Hindmarsh. But the dangers inherent in his approach also have been pointed out. In my judgment there is no reason that we should accept the amendment as proposed, or even the foreshadowed amendments that we look forward to being moved by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, and seconded by the honourable member for Cunningham. 
I must say that I am somewhat surprised at this rather feigned anger to which we have just had to listen. Usually, when the guillotine is introduced, there is an immediate reaction. One hears cries from the Opposition at the way in which it is being treated. It was remarkable that today, when notice was given of this motion and the suspension of Standing Orders was moved on this most important question, as it was described by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  there were no cries of anger. 
There was no concern expressed and there was no reference to jack-boots, as my honourable friend mentions. There were so few honourable members opposite interested in hearing the discussion that there were not enough of them to rise to their usual chorus. One of the honourable members opposite even had to go to the trouble of calling for a quorum. Usually members of the Opposition wait outside the door to make the Government provide the numbers- we all know about that tactic- but on this occasion an honourable member was madly waving to his friends to come into the chamber. One person to whom he waved was the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  who was wandering about outside, wondering whether to come into the House to help provide the audience to give us this demonstration of concern. 
One might be convinced if one thought that all honourable members of the Opposition were basically interested in this subject, wanted to see it discussed and had new information to bring to us, which matters they wanted to be put on public record. Of the 37 members opposite only 14 have spoken in this debate at any stage. There have been many opportunities for them to do so. Yesterday we had to listen to four or more honourable members opposite making speeches twice in order to ensure that the debate was continued as long as possible. Honourable members on this side of the House are expected to sit back and allow the proceedings of the House to be thwarted in this way. If honourable members opposite had been in that position, we all know what would have happened. We know from their record what has happened in that situation. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  quoted from the record of the Opposition. I am surprised that some of the newer members of the Opposition do not take the time to read through  Hansard  in order to see what that record was. They might care to dissociate themselves from it. I would be happy to hear from them if they did. I do not think anybody really expects them to do that. During the term of office of the previous government some 59 Bills were dealt with in 26 guillotines. During the term of office of this Government only three such procedural mechanisms have been used. I am quite prepared to put that record against the record of the Opposition at any time. I admit that the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill is an important piece of legislation. If it were not necessary for the business of the Parliament to proceed perhaps I would be prepared to give honourable members opposite extra time. I enjoyed the debate so much yesterday when honourable members opposite demonstrated their differences of opinion on this question, that I would like to see them given more time to develop those differences. 
-I said that if it were not important to the procedures of this House that the legislation be dealt with I would be happy to give the Opposition an opportunity to do that. But of course we all know about the Opposition and its differences of opinion. We have started to see them emerging in relation to the debate that has taken place already. But one of the most remarkable propositions was put by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  in relation to committees, when he referred to my friend the honourable member for Canbera  (Mr Haslem).  He was suggesting that the Liberal Party decides matters behind closed doors and closets itself away to make decisions affecting the welfare of the nation. 
Now who is really fooling whom? Caucus is something that I have heard about. If the Labor Party thinks it can do without its Caucus to decide how it is going to vote on these important questions, or to bring everybody into line to ensure that nobody with a different view will be able to vote, let us have the Parliament meet on Wednesday mornings. Then we will see whether the Labor Party wants to do without Caucus. Even the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who has a different point of view, will not be able to vote and give effect to that point of view in this House. Honourable members opposite are the people who need the opportunity to get behind closed doors in order to decide their approach. When those sorts of remarks are made during debate it is clear to the people of Australia which party has an admirable record in relation to opportunities to speak on these questions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The time allowed for discussion of the motion has expired. 
Question put- 
That the times proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the motion. 
I am on equal ground tonight with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  because he exclaimed the other night that he has no expertise as a criminal lawyer; he works in the industrial field. He accused me of only having had experience in the conveyancing area. I am pleased that we can look at these clauses now in detail and bring our minds to bear on the problem involved. I appreciate that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, having no experience in this area, was not able to adduce any evidence in support of his proposition, which would indicate from considerable experience and background in the courts where these matters are dealt with, that these are the sorts of procedures that are laid down for a policeman to satisfy a magistrate when he seeks the issue of a warrant. I suspect that what honourable members opposite are seeking to do is to fetter Customs officers to a far greater extent than any policeman is fettered in relation to the information that he is required to provide to a magistrate in relation to the issue of any other warrant. 
-Perhaps the honourable member for Lalor, with his considerable police court experience which he alluded to earlier- in fact he suggested that the standards that would apply in relation to these matters may be somewhat lax- will give us the benefit of his experience in a little while. But in this case we are dealing with a judge; we are not dealing with some police court in which procedures are treated with some laxity, and I assume that that was what the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  was referring to. What we are talking about is a judge, a very senior and experienced practitioner, who has to satisfy himself by information on oath as to certain matters. What honourable members opposite, by their amendment, are trying to do is to fetter the basis upon which a judge will come to the conclusions that he is required under this legislation to make in relation to the issue of a warrant. Bearing in mind that I have not been informed of any requirements like this in any other legislation dealing with these matters, I ask honourable members opposite why Customs officers and judges of our courts have to be fettered by requirements of this sort. I draw the attention of the House to paragraph (d) of the Opposition's amendment. 
-The honourable member made the point a little while ago that we are required to make judgments of a qualitative type in relation to this legislation. He said that telephone taps are a significant intrusion into the rights of the individual. I accept that. But he also stated in his comments on this Bill that we were dealing with drug matters. He indicated the importance that he attached to that point. We are not embarking upon telephone taps lightly. They are not something to be used in relation to speeding fines or offences of that nature. They are to be used in relation to the distribution of drugs which are wreaking such havoc in our community. It is an important matter; it is not a matter to be dealt with lightly. That is why matters of this nature are to come before a judge. We have before us a number of requirements which I ask honourable members opposite to consider. In my view they fetter the basis upon which a judge will come to the proper conclusion as to the extent to which he is satisfied. Paragraph (d) of the amendment states: 
The judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success, or would be unlikely to be successful, or would be impracticable . . . 
I ask honourable members to imagine a situation in which we want to catch urgently a drug pedlar and we need a warrant for an urgent telephone tap. A judge may ponder for hours over what those words mean. Paragraph (e) states: 
The Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. 
After the judge has turned his mind to all those matters he would then be required to state which grounds specified in the affidavit he has relied on to justify the issue of the warrant and the particulars of any other grounds relied on by him to justify the issue of the warrant. What is the purpose behind these requirements? It seems to me that their purpose is to provide a framework in which smart people defending smart operators will have a basis for challenging the very evidence upon which a conviction might be sought. Such a challenge will arise not on the bona fides of that evidence but because we have provided a framework of law which is so complex and technical that until we have run the gamut of test cases and de1' " oed procedures of the sort with which the he ible member might be familiar in the police courts of Victoria we will not be able to get a conviction. I do not think that that is the way in which these matters ought to be dealt with. 
I think that a judge who is asked to make findings in relation to these matters and required to satisfy himself by information on oath as to the matters specified in sub-clause (1) (a) and (b) will genuinely turn his mind to the adequacy of that evidence. I would be much happier if the judge had to turn his mind to the evidence placed before him in the individual case to decide whether he himself is satisfied. I am perfectly happy to leave him with a discretion in that matter rather than to put down a catalogue of requirements which will only confuse and create circumstances in which the smart operators who are dealing in hard drugs and doing so much harm in our community will find ways and means of getting off charges when they are caught and when we have the capacity to deal with them. 
-My comment is very brief. I only wish to say that these rules, of course, are for judges, not for practitioners. The sorts of rules that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  has been talking about are the sorts of rules that are laid down to enable practitioners who are going to appear before a judge to regulate their forms and to give them some guidance. This is not what we have here. This is a statutory obligation on judges telling them how they will exercise their discretion. It fetters the judge. It is not dealing with the matters relevant to the practitioner. That is my first point. Secondly, does the honourable member for Melbourne Ports really think that the Customs officers are going to be trotting off with their facts in relation to these sorts of matters, looking at the other questions that are involved in clause 20 of this Bill, without the assistance of very skilled Crown law officers? 
In view of the provocative comments of the Premier of New South Wales about the role of the Commonwealth regarding the situation at the Caltex and Total oil refineries, can the Minister for Industrial Relations inform the House of the present position? 
It has been a principle of our system of government that there are three sorts of power- the legislature, the Executive to administer the law of the nation and the judicial power.  (Quorum formed).  These Bills that I am about to address myself to are about our system of government and the separation of power. Liberty has long been dependent upon the independence of the functions that each of the areas of government have in our system and their effective separation. This legislation is about liberty and protecting that separation more effectively. 
The Bills are the High Court of Australia Bill 1979, the Judiciary Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 and the Evidence Amendment Bill 1979. The legislative scheme is to effect the transfer of the seat of the High Court, the judicial arm of power under our Constitution, to Canberra and to perfect its independence from departmenttal control. The High Court Bill provides for the Court to manage its own affairs, to be responsible for its own building, its staff and its own financial arrangements. All staff, including its administrative head, the  Clerk,  will be free from the Public Service Act. The Bill also provides in clause 6 for the appointment of judges to the High Court to be made after consultation with the States to reflect more properly the Court's national status and to enable it to discharge more completely its role as a federal supreme court for all Australia and all States. In other words, this legislation is about an effective separation of power of the Court from the legislature and, more particularly, the Executive. 
It is this separation doctrine to which I wish to address my remarks. It is this doctrine as is pursued in the legislative scheme before us that I intend to defend in every respect, as does the Government. This separation is a fundamental tenet of our Constitution. It is very much dependent upon the practitioners iri the legislature, on the Bench and in the Administration. On the part of the judiciary in particular, it is dependent upon separation, upon independence and upon impartiality, and particularly impartiality. A basic feature of all legislative systems is that the persons who decide conflicts between contending parties should be, and should be seen to be, completely impartial and unbiased. There are a number of works which I would have liked to quote, but with the time that has been taken up already I might not be able to do so. It is on this basis that those who judge should avoid expressing opinions on topics which are likely to be the subject of disputes in courts and should not ally themselves with any group or sector in the community which could jeopardise their impartiality or appearance of impartiality. Only if the judiciary is known to be unbiased will the system continue to function. Hartley and Griffith, in Government and the Law, state: 
Judges are, of course, expected to abstain from political activity. They are disqualified from membership of the House of Commons but if they are peers (including Lords of Appeal in Ordinary) they can, and do, play a part in the work of the House of Lords. Today they avoid becoming involved in party political controversy. 
There are a number of related topics, including the subjects of making political appointments to the judiciary and the use of judges for nonjudicial functions to which, whilst topical, I do not intend on this occasion to address myself. What I do intend to discuss is the standard of conduct required of members of the judiciary, if they are to avoid the appearance of bias towards one or other party and the legislature is to have confidence in the doctrine of separate power for the judiciary, which this legislation is about. The winning of independence by the judiciary is generally accepted to have occurred when the Act of Settlement of 1702 altered the tenure of judges. Anson, in his  The Law and Custom of the Constitution,  states: 
When the judges ceased to be removable at the Royal pleasure they lost a motive for regarding the Royal wishes in their administration of justice, and when at the same time they were made removable on the address of both Houses, they acquired a motive for carefulness lest their conduct on the Bench should fall under the scrutiny of the High Court of Parliament. 
In the Australian Constitution, the provision in section 72 that a judge's honorarium may not be diminished during his term of office may be seen as an additional protection of that independence of the judiciary. Another rule designed to protect the independence of the judiciary is the protection from legal process for acts done by judges in their judicial capacity. This was established in Scott v. Stansfield when Kelly, C. B., said: 
It is essential to all courts that the judges who are appointed to administer the law be permitted to administer it under the protection of the law independently and freely without favour and without fear. This provision of the law is not for the protection or benefit of a malicious or corrupt judge, but for the benefit of the public, whose interest it is that the judges should be at liberty to exercise their powers with independence and without fear of consequence. 
There are many factors which commentators on the subject of the separation doctrine concede led to the concept of judicial independence. There are various meanings of the term 'separation' which stress either functions performed by each branch or the overall allocation of power between each branch. A discussion of functions strictly can point to a certain apparent overlap. For the purpose of discussing the role of judges as independent and impartial in carrying out their duties, it is necessary to concentrate on the functions basically performed by the three branches and the extent to which there is interference with those functions in a practical sense rather than to stress the overall allocation of power and influence in decision-making. Thus, the fact that under the Australian Constitution the High Court may be asked to determine the constitutional validity of legislation passed by Parliament does not mean that the High Court will be usurping the role of Parliament or that Parliament is less independent or separated from the judiciary. Nor does the passage of legislation such as the Administrative Decisions (Judical Review) Act 1977, whereby Parliament decided that Executive decisions may be scrutinised by the judiciary, mean that the judiciary will usurp the role of the Executive. Such matters as these, in my view, do not detract from the independence of the judiciary. 
These matters having been examined briefly, independence of the judiciary means two things. The judiciary must be free from any practical constraints or pressures imposed by other branches so that it can fulfil its functions without fear of reprisal. The traditional view ofthe gaining of independence by the judiciary supports this functional approach even if historically the developments were based on functions which were less clearly defined and even if other factors were also involved. The provisions in the High 
Court of Australia Bill 1979, which we are now discussing, ensuring a greater degree of administrative independence for the High Court, are a good example of a practical approach towards this end. The other aspect of this functional approach is that if the judiciary is to be independent in carrying out its functions, the other branches must be free to do the same without interference from the judiciary until the time for judicial activity as envisaged by the law arises. Thus, independence is not only a right but also a duty if the system is to function properly. The making of public statements concerning matters on which other branches are engaged must therefore be avoided if the judiciary's own independence is to be respected. 
At the outset it was assumed that any system of solving conflicts by an independent body such as a court could function effectively only while it retained public confidence. The discussion of independence from the Executive and Parliament may suggest that these are the only threats to judicial independence and that public confidence can be maintained where the judiciary engages in political activity or public comment as long as the activity is seen to be a sign of independence from the government of the day. There are two reasons why this is not so. A partisan political approach in one area will reduce the confidence in the institution as a whole so that the public will believe that other issues may be prejudiced and that a balanced view of the law and facts may be lacking in all cases. The judiciary has tenure beyond the term of any government so that partisan activity against a government will lead to a belief that the judiciary will favour the views of an incoming government from the other side. Thus, partisan activity can lead to a weakening of independence when governments change. 
One fairly recent event when the role of a member of the judiciary in dealing with the actions of the other branches of the government has been criticised was the advice given to  Sir John  Kerr by  Sir Garfield  Barwick about the dismissal of  Mr Whitlam.  Many eminent constitutionalists commented on such action disapprovingly. They included Professor Geoffrey Sawer, the late Professor D. P. O. Connell and Professor Colin Howard. Not all such eminent academics have taken that view. I refer honourable members interested in the subject to Associate Professor Cooray's recent work entitled 'Conventions, the Australian Constitution and the Future'. However, my reluctant duty tonight is to draw the attention of this House to a clear breach and a more recent breach of this doctrine. In the 

 National Times newspaper of the week ending 14 July this year clear and unambiguous political comments are quoted from the addresses of two judges to a conference of Labor lawyers in Adelaide in early July. Lest there be any doubt as to the nature of this conference, let me draw attention to some of the comments of the author,  Mr Richard  Acklands. He said: 
The Labor lawyers spent their time considering strategies for change ... it should not be forgotten that a gathering of Labor lawyers is really a parade ground for political aspirants to show off their plumage ... the Labor lawyers event degenerated into a back-biting faction fight, Left versus Right, women versus the men . . . 
The conference apparently could not agree on the formation of a national organisation of Labor lawyers. I have taken the opportunity to study the constitutions of the Society of Labor Lawyers in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales. Each of them in different ways restricts membership. In particular, they require members to have no political associations other than membership of the Australian Labor Party. The Australian Capital Territory Society clearly notes that at least four members of the executive of seven must hold current ALP membership cards. The relevant clause of the New South Wales body states: 
Membership shall not be open to persons who are members of political parties other than the Australian Labor Party except those persons approved by the executive committee. 
Clearly, these bodies are partisan political organisations engaged in day to day political comment as evidenced by many reported statements. However, my concern is at speeches to a partisan body by judges who have a responsibility to be impartial.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy's involvement iri the Labor lawyers conference is reported as follows: 
The law and its procedures in most respects are out of date, inefficient and often unjust. This is known by everyone except 90 per cent of the bar and 95 per cent of the judges. 
Lionel Murphy's words provided a well-received rallying call on the opening night of the Labor Lawyers Conference. 
These words and the action of this judge of the High Court of Australia clearly endanger the system of separation of power, threaten our system of liberty and destroy confidence of the public in judicial impartiality. I am sorry that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  whom I respect is laughing about those observations. A judge who has a prior involvement in partisan political activities and was a significant practitioner has a greater duty in my judgment to effect a real separation from political involvement when he accepts an appointment to the highest court of this land. I am not critical of appointments of skilled lawyers from the Parliament to the courts but the transition must be complete. The judiciary must appreciate this. It must also appreciate that failure to observe the separation doctrine can only endanger it. A judge cannot expect the Parliament to be silent and to defer to his position as a judge if he, by his associations and words, invites reply. 

 Mr Justice Murphy's position was made even more untenable when his former parliamentary colleague, now  Mr Justice  McClelland of the New South Wales Industrial Commission, delivered the so-called captivating after dinner speech to the same gathering of Labor lawyers. It was reported that Diamond Jim was 'dilating on judges and judgments, politicians and politics.  His  best lines were reserved for politics, the art for which he reserves his most intense fondness'. He followed this up with a speech recently on VIP aircraft which is a current political issue. If honourable members opposite are interested, I have a copy of the transcript. A number of other judges, each of whom has had an involvement in politics of the Left before appointment, saw fit to attend the same conference. The mere fact that these judges attended at all was most improper. 
In order to put this matter in perspective, let me ask honourable members opposite what would be their response should the Chief Justice of Australia have been invited and accepted an invitation to give a keynote address to a convention of the Liberal Party or to a conference of Liberal Party lawyers so designated. I suggest that if such an event took place there would be pandemonium in this House. Independent commentators would have a field day. Yet months after the Labor lawyers conference the independent commentators have been silent. Where would perceived partisan judges be if they were confronted with the problems which recently were presented to the judges in Papua New Guinea? How could a judge who is still disposed to political involvement be seen as sufficiently independent to gaol Ministers of the Crown for alleged contempt of court as has recently occurred? 
In summary, I make these general observations: It is inherent in the concept of a legal system which provides for conflicts to be resolved in a third party that the third party should be and be seen to be impartial. Loss of impartiality or its appearance occurs when a judge becomes too closely allied in the public mind with one party or point of view either as a supporter or as an opponent. The independence of the judiciary and the respect which is accorded to it in the community is not intended for the benefit of the judiciary but for the benefit of the public. Any loss of independence on the part of the judiciary will lead to a corresponding loss of respect in the community and the ultimate failure of our legal system. 
-I wish to make a brief personal explanation. I am glad that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has returned to the chamber because it does concern an exchange that took place between him and me in the debate that has just passed. 
