Mt  Deputy Speaker,  I join with other honourable members who have taken part in this debate and the debate on the Address-in-Reply in congratulating you and  Mr Speaker  on your election to the high offices that you now hold. This is not my first speech in this House, although it is the first opportunity I have had to speak in this chamber since the opening of this Parliament. In 1966 1 was elected to this House as the representative of an electorate which, although called Sturt, was substantially different from the electorate which 1 now represent. 
I thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for his acknowledgment earlier this week of my presence here. He knows full well that the fact that T am now sitting in this House at all is evidence of a resurgence of Liberal interest and support in South Australia. He will receive further proof of this resurgence next Saturday when he finds that the tide of public opinion is running strongly in favour of many Liberal candidates in South Australia. As- the honourable member for Adelaide knows, Sturt was won against an overall swing to Labor. The Liberal wins in Sturt, Stirling, Forrest and Bendigo should be a constant reminder to the Government of the Liberal Party's determination and capacity to regain the confidence of the people. The honourable member for Adelaide drew attention to the few vacant seats on this side of the House. The number available for Liberal members who will be elected at the next election is so limited that the only solution will be that we will have to move to the side of the House on which the honourable member for Adelaide now sits and he will have to move back here. 
My election on 2nd December has given me an exciting and challenging responsibility to fulfil on behalf of the electors of Sturt, whether they voted for me or not. I will do my best to interpret their wishes and aspirations and to give expression to their idealism. I value greatly the opportunities I have had to talk with, rather than merely to talk to, many of the people who live in Sturt. I look forward to a continuation of this 2-way communication. It is important that a member should know the views of those he represents, and it is equally important that they should have some idea of his approach to government. The change in government resulting from the election on 2nd December will arouse increased public concern as to the political philosophies which motivate their politicians. This country has not had a change of government for 23 years. Some have forgotten, whilst others have never had the opportunity !o know, the full significance of such a change. But it involves not merely a change in the administrators but also a change in the let of values by which the administration is conducted. 
In the Speech delivered by the GovernorGeneral upon which this Bill is based, for it deals with one of the matters referred to in the Speech, the new Government presented its program. The methods by which we as a people move towards new horizons in any policy area must be critically examined. A socialist government uses methods significantly different from those which would be used by a Liberal government. Because the methods they use are new, their prescription causes the excitement of a new wonder drug. At first it seems to many that it will achieve by a miracle the objective for which all profess to be striving, a better life for all Australians. This Bill is but an illustration of the use of the device of the wonder drug. Previous Liberal governments continuously improved Australia's social security program. Whilst there are still areas where reform is needed, to deny that improvements have been made is an exercise in political partisanship. 1 have for some considerable time supported the concept of index related pensions. It is fashionable to regard the average weekly earnings index as the best index with which to create a nexus. I venture to suggest tonight that there will come a time when we will question the efficacy and the suitability of this nexus. There will come a time when we will question the relationship of the pension to the index. 
This Bill is claimed to be a first step to relating the pension to an index. It is a very tentative step, because if we look at the current rate at which average weekly earnings are rising we can be forgiven for estimating that over the next period of 12 months those average weekly earnings are likely to rise to an extent that would require an increase in the pension in excess of 2 instalments of $1.50 per week. 1 acknowledge that the Minister in his second reading speech drew the attention of the House to the Government's concern that it might have to review the question of the rate at which the pension was increased to achieve the target of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. But one of the great bases upon which the Australian Labor Party put forward this proposal during the election campaign was its desire to have a pension rate 'that will no longer be tied to the financial and political considerations of annual budgets'. 
Until the 25 per cent level is achieved the increases in pension rates will continue to be tied to financial and political judgments, yet in the way in which this Bill has been presented, in the way in which the proposals contained in it were referred to in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, there is an attempt at deceit by the Government to create the impression that the goal that it is setting out to achieve has already been achieved. It has not been achieved, and unless the Government makes a realistic assessment of the current rate of increase in average weekly earnings it will not he achieved for a substantially long period of time. In the meantime the Government, which itself claims that pensions are no longer to be determined on the basis of political considerations or of financial considerations, will find that these considerations will continue to influence the determination of the level of pension. 
So it is important that the Australian people should understand that the objectives which the Labor Party promised to achieve in its policy speech and in the speech of the Governor-General are a long way yet from achievement. It is important that the people should understand that this is only a tentative step and that in the meantime the future determination of pension rates will depend upon political decisions. The Government is using double talk and the art of camouflage to create an impression that the Bill will achieve a relationship between the pension and an index. It is no closer to the achievement of that relationship than were any of the decisions of the previous Government which continued to increase the real value of the pension. Thus we can see that the pensions are not as yet index-related. Pensions are still subject to political and financial considerations and will be until the 25 per cent level is attained. Unless the Government takes early action in the light of the increasing level of average weekly earnings, pension rates could in fact fall further behind average weekly earnings than they are today as a consequence of the rapid increase in average weekly earnings. Yes, the Government has said that it will keep these matters under consideration, but in keeping them under consideration it has a situation in which the determination of rates of pensions is still contingent on financial and political considerations. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  referred to the back dating of the pension increases. A question that we might well ask is: When does spring begin and when does autumn begin, and when will the future increases take place? Everyone knows that following the election there was a period when there was a great deal of speculation as to the date from which these pension increases would operate. That they operate from the first pension pay day following the election date shows at least that the Government was consistent with some attitudes it had previously expressed, but I would urge it now to show a consistency in the future by letting the public, and particularly those who depend on the. pension, know when the pension increases will take place. 
There are many other aspects with regard to the whole field of social welfare to which I would have liked an opportunity to have addressed some remarks, but the ambit of this Bill is limited to the proposals contained in it. Let me say briefly that I continue to support the early abolition of the means test and the introduction of a meaningful national superannuation scheme, but in looking at the establishment of such policies serious consideration must be given to the source of funds. I was concerned to hear speakers on the Government side indicate that they had in mind that contributions would be imposed as a means of collecting revenue to pay pensions. It needs to be pointed out that at the present time pensions are paid out of general revenues, revenues collected through a tax system, which in some areas is admittedly in need of reform to ensure proper equity across the community. Nevertheless one of the bases of the system is to achieve a redistribution of income. Merely to fulfil an election promise not to increase taxes by collecting the necessary income by calling it a contribution is again typical of the double talk that we are becoming accustomed to hearing. 
I would introduce national superannuation by paying adequate minimum pensions to all out of general revenues, and having an efficient and effective system of income taxation whereby the revenue is fairly collected, and on top of the basic adequate minimum pension I would give encouragement to the establishment of employer-based superannuation schemes with proper ability to integrate the benefits paid through those schemes with the basic pension paid out of the tax revenue. In this way people would be encouraged to save according to their own choice. 
That is not a form of taxation, because by being involved in their employer-based superannuation schemes people would have various options open to them as to the extent to which they wished to provide out of today's income for their future retirement. They would provide benefits according to their own choice. They could be encouraged and rewarded for their efforts in choosing to move for retirement. To simply conceive a national superannuation scheme which involves a massive transfer of the responsibility of payment for present pensions away from the general tax revenue to a fund derived from contributions will impose upon the Australian community a burden which will be greater upon the middle and lower income groups than on the higher income groups. The people will quickly see that they have been misled into a scheme that they thought would provide for them real and genuine benefits when all that would happen, if such a scheme were introduced, would be to change a few names and collect revenue under the guise of contribution when, in fact, it would be taxation. 
I applaud the proposal that pensions should be index related but I express concern that the impression is being created that the 25 per cent goal has been achieved and that the relationship sought has been achieved when, in fact, we are a very long way from it. I support the Bill because I believe that the increases to the pensioners are needed and deserved by them in order both to maintain their standard of living and enable them to share in the prosperity of this country. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the answer given by him on Tuesday to a question asked by the honourable member for Corangamite. Will the  1.35  per cent of income payable as a contribution to the Government's proposed health scheme be held at that level, in pursuance of the guarantee given by the Minister, only by providing for any short-fall between receipts and expenditure by increased allocations out of general revenues? Will the increased revenue be provided by increased income tax or by allowing the proportion of tax taken out of personal incomes to rise, due to the impact of inflation, on a progressive rate scale, or will the proposed  1.35  per cent be made progressively higher on higher incomes? If not- 
I want to draw the attention of the House to the situation of a significant group of aged and invalid people living in nursing homes who, at the beginning of this year, were given a benefit and now appear to be having that benefit taken from them. Late last year the Repatriation Department by advertisement gave details of benefits to be conferred on repatriation pensioners in respect of nursing home care. The advertisement read: 
The Repatriation Department will continue to provide nursing home care at no cost to the pensioner for chronic conditions accepted as related to war service. 
It went on: 
However, if you are a special rate pensioner, an Intermediate rate pensioner, a war widow, widowed mother or World War I nurse, you will from 1st January 1973 be eligible, subject to a personal contribution of $2.55 a day, for nursing home care for chronic conditions not accepted as related to war service where the need for such care has been established and you are admitted to a nursing home approved by the Department. 
Following the announcement, no doubt many of the eligible pensioners made application. The standard form of reply when those applicants were accepted for benefit read as follows: 
I am pleased to inform you that responsibility for the partial cost of your maintenance in- 
The name of the nursing home would then be shown - as detailed below will be accepted by the Department. Your contribution is to be paid direct to the proprietor. 
Nursing classification- 
In this case it would be intensive care - 
Commencing date 1st January 1973. 
Approved daily fee SI 5.30 less your contribution of $2.55 - daily rate approved for payment by Repatriation Department $12.75. 
In other words, the pensioner was notified that the benefit that was available was nursing home care in an approved home at a cost to him of $2.55 a day, the Repatriation Department undertaking the whole of the additional cost, having approved the home. No reference was made in the advertisement to whether the fee structure of the home had to be separately looked at. 
The month of January concluded. The payment was made to the home. The patient paid $2.55 a day or $18 a week. Towards the end of February and into March, this letter was received by patients who had received the benefit: 
The Repatriation Department has undertaken to pay your nursing home fees. 
Here is the rub - 
The maximum rate which they are able to pay  is  $9.50  a  day for ordinary care and $12.50  a  day for intensive care. Your hospital has a charge of $12.30 per day for ordinary care and $15.30 per day for intensive care. Are you willing to pay the excess of $2.80 per day? 
Two months before, the Department had notified the patient that the patient would only have to pay $2.55 a day and the Department would meet the cost of $15.30. Now, two months later, patients are advised that the Department will only pay $12.50 a day in the case of an intensive care patient and that the balance must be paid by the patient. Later to that a further letter was sent out to the patients n this home to try to explain the situation. It read as follows: 
My Department may accept responsibility for the payment of maintenance for certain eligible Repatriation patients accommodated in registered nursing homes subject to  a  personal patient contribution of $2.55 per day up to a maximum daily rate which is approved by the Repatriation Commission. The present maximum daily rates which have been approved by the Repatriation Commission are $9.50 per day for ordinary nursing care and $12.50 per day for intensive nursing care. (This means that where the nursing home fee is $9.50 a day the Repatriation Department will pay $6.95 and the patient $2.55 per day.) As the fees at present being charged for your maintenance are in excess of the rates approved by the Repatriation Commission, it will be your responsibility to pay the amount in excess, in addition to the mandatory contribution of $2.55 per day. 
Patients who were informed 2 months ago that they would have to pay $2.55 a day and are being informed this month that in some instances they will have to pay double that amount daily are being seriously upset by the fact that here is the appearance and the fact of a benefit granted being taken from them. 
I pay tribute to the work being done by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in Adelaide in trying to unravel this situation. It appears that an announcement was made. The benefits to be granted were announced to the particular patients but now it is found that the Repatriation Department has a different scale of fees which it approved in relation to approved nursing homes to the scale of fees approved by the Department of Health. It also appears that the Government now has had a look at the question and has said that in some instances the patient should make a greater contribution towards the cost of his care. If that change of decision were to apply to a patient about to enter a nursing home and the circumstances could be outlined to the patient, the patient would be in the position of being able to make his or her own judgment as to whether he or she could afford the cost of $2.55 a day plus the extra that the nursing home wished to charge. However, the people being affected are, in many instances, patients who have been in nursing homes receiving long term care - patients who, whether of a light nursing care nature or of an intensive care nature, have come to regard the nursing homes where they are being properly accommodated as their homes. 
In order to try to overcome the financial problem that apparently exists, the Department now is going to these patients and saying: 'If you want to be liable for only $2.55 a day we will try to find another nursing home where you can go and get accommodation for a charge which does not cost you more than $2.55 a day'. I think it creates an unfair situation for and is an inhumane attitude to people who, in the main, are elderly and sick to cause them this emotional upset by suggesting to them that they move from a home that was approved 2 months ago because the Government has now changed its attitude with regard to the costs being charged by that particular nursing home. 
The original advertisement in the Press made no reference to the fact that once the nursing home was approved the eligibility for the benefit at $2.55 a day would be looked at in relation to the charges made by that nursing home. I urge the Government to reexamine the position so that existing patients do not have benefits granted to them 2 months ago taken away from them in circumstances that cause them a great deal of distress. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister and ask: Under the Australian constitutional law, which is supreme - the Parliament or the Executive? Has the Parliament the power to pass laws making authorities established by it directly responsible to the Parliament and not to the Executive? Can the Prime Minister inform the House of those cases where this power has been exercised by the Parliament? Has it done so in the cases of the Auditor-General and the Director-General of the Australian Intelligence Organisation? 
I second the motion. In doing so I want to draw to the attention of the House the original motion which this motion seeks to have further debated. The motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar was: 
That, in the opinion of this House, if the means test on social services is not abolished for all persons aged 65 and over by the time of the next Budget then: 
A further substantial relaxation should be provided in the next Budget. 
The Government should announce its scheduled program for total abolition with the least possible delay. 
Total abolition of this means test should not be made conditional upon or involved with the implementation of other social service proposals of the Government. 
Honourable members came to this House this morning expecting to have the opportunity in general business time to canvass this topic in detail. The motion deals with a number of aspects relating to the abolition of the means test. Many of us wanted to express our concern on the various aspects of this motion. In voting on it prematurely, as was done a few moments ago, the Government indicated its opposition to the abolition of the means test and to the separation of the question of means test abolition from the question of the establishment of a national superannuation fund. These were aspects which we wished to canvass in detail, because there is rising disquiet in the public mind as to whether the means test will be abolished or whether it will be replaced by the new fancy and favoured needs lest, being a means test under the guise of a new and popular name. In addition there is rising concern amongst those who wish to see a viable national superannuation scheme over to the meagre proposals enunciated in the Government's policy and platform. 
These are aspects of the matter which honourable members on this side of the House wish to have an opportunity to discuss. This is a matter of great significance. The public at large - both the pensioner and the non pensioner retiree - want the questions of means test abolition and national superannuation schemes dealt with in an atmosphere of objectivity and discussed in detail so that we can achieve the best possible national retirement scheme. Here today the debate was cut short. Now honourable members on this side of the House want to have the question reopened so that the public can be made aware of the attitudes of honourable members on the Government side and members of the Opposition and so that we can have an opportunity to express in detail our concern at the various alternatives open in the achievement, firstly, of means test abolition and, secondly, of the introduction of a viable national superannuation scheme. The Government used its numbers to gag this debate. It has aroused in the minds of the public - both the retirees and all those who are taxpayers - grave concern as to whether or not the debate is being gagged so that the Government can devise a scheme whereby, under the camouflage of the total contribution, it will impose heavy and burdensome taxation- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I think the honourable member knows that. 
I was concluding on the point that the public wants us to debate the question as to whether, by the imposition of a contribution, what will in fact be the heavy burden of taxation will be imposed upon the middle and lower income earners and, in particular, upon families. These are the sorts of questions that we wish to debate. That is why I second the motion. 
I ask the Minister for Educa tion whether he can assure the House that on receipt of the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission he will not only forthwith announce details of grants to be made available in the 1974 school year but also announce the availability of advance giants for immediate expenditure so that the maximum number of the recommended areas of need can be satisfied immediately, or at least by the opening of the 1974 school year. 
I wish, in this adjournment debate, to draw the attention of the House to the needs of a significantly large, but necessarily diverse group of people who have been affected by the impact of currency realignments on the real value of pensions that they receive from overseas countries. As the weeks have passed I have been impressed by the actual number of people affected because constantly this matter has been drawn to my attention. A large number of people have come here from other countries with entitlements to pensions through other government schemes or through private employer based schemes. In many instances when these people have left their country of origin the pension entitlement has been fixed at the rate payable when they left that country. This is not true in all cases. Some of these people are members of schemes, both government and private, under which wherever they live they continue to be entitled to increased benefits paid in the source country of the pension. These people are either wholly or, in some cases, partly dependent upon the pensions that they receive from overseas countries. 
As a result of the change in the value of the Austraiian dollar many of the recipients of these pensions have sustained a substantial income loss. It might be said that they should take this into account as one of the risks of coming  to  live in Australia either because they personally wish to come here or because they are drawn here to join relatives and family living permanently in this country. It might be said that one of the risks - together with all the other problems that they face in making their determination as to whether to move - they should take into account is the possible impact upon their real income of changed value of the pension to which they are entitled. If we say this of these people we should similarly say it of the industry groups which go into the export market to sell Australianproduced goods overseas but when those groups, properly organised as they are entitled to be, make representations to their governments as to the difficulties in which they are placed as a consequence of a change in the value of the Australian dollar, we find that governments of all persuasions look at the impact upon these industries and introduce schemes whereby that impact is lessened. 
Only a few weeks ago we were told, in relation to certain manufacturing industries, that in respect of the loss over certain ranges the industries would get recoupment from a government scheme of 90 per cent of the price reductions actually made between 23rd December 1972 and 31st December 1973, as a result of the revaluation. Very little, if any, attention has been paid to the individual person whose real income has been affected by the revaluation of the Australian dollar. My plea this evening is to urge the Government to examine the extent of the numbers of people who have, in this way, been adversely affected. I am aware of the fact that, in a debating way, the argument could be advanced that if the movement in the value of the Australian dollar had been in the reverse direction no one would be standing up and saying that these people should not have the benefit of the windfall that they received. But when that happens in the case of organised industry in Australia the Government does not say to that industry that it must give back, in some form, the benefits it received because of the realignment of international currency. The movement, in recent times, has been particularly severe in the case of certain currencies. The American dollar has had an exchange rate change of 20.49 per cent; the Greek currency as against the Australian dollar, 20.66 per cent; and the pound sterling, 1 8.54 per cent. 
In the case of the American dollar it may be that not a large number of people in Australia are affected. There are not significant numbers of American settlers in this country in receipt of the type of fixed or occasionally variable income of the type to which I have referred, but there are large numbers of United Kingdom migrants living in Australia who are in receipt of pensions, government or employer-base, who have been adversely affected in terms of their real Australian income as a result of the revaluation of the Australian dollar on the 2 occasions on which the effect of international currency movements has been to revalue the Australian dollar. I believe that larger numbers of people are affected than we are aware of. It is true that many of these people may now, as a consequence of their loss of real income, to some extent be able to recoup that loss by becoming entitled to Australian social security pensions. I know that in some instances it is possible to say that, dollar for dollar, their loss will be picked up. In other cases the loss will be picked up by only 50c in the $1. because under the reciprocal agreements that apply 2 categories of pensioners in Australia are affected. 
The first contains those who do not qualify by the normal residential qualification. If they are eligible under the means test as it still operates, they do not count the pension that they receive from the United Kingdom in their assessable means. Under the agreement the Australian Government merely makes up the difference between what their English pensions. I know that in some instances it is social security pension they would receive in Australia. So it can be said in that area that the loss is picked up totally. Where people have been here for a longer period and have qualified by 10 years residence - there are many of them - and they are in the tapered means test area, the loss of the value of their overseas pensions is supported only by the 50c in the $1 by virtue of the operation of the present means test. 
In addition there are a number of people who are right outside the area of the operation of the means test. At a time when we are showing increasing concern about the relationship of pensions to pre-retirement earnings, we should have some concern about the effect upon this group of persons who perhaps are getting no benefit under reciprocal agreements or under the Australian social security system. We should be concerned about the effect upon them of the reduction in their income as a result of currency revaluations. Numbers of people have approached me who have been entitled to United Kingdom police pensions or pensions from their employers. Some of them have been in United Kingdom Government schemes. They all have been adversely affected, and quite seriously, in terms of the relative degree to which their incomes have been fixed and the habits they have formed at a level related to their incomes. In addition to facing up to the consequences of inflation upon a relatively fixed income, they have had to face this substantial reduction in their real incomes. 
My plea tonight is to urge the Government to examine the needs of these individuals. They are spread in a diverse way throughout the community. They are not organised as industry groups are organised, and yet the effect upon them of currency realignments is perhaps in a personal and human way far more severe than it is on industry groups which can make adjustments in their patterns of trade to suit the new circumstances. As world mobility increases, I urge that this problem be looked at in a far wider context even than the present situation that has arisen from the recent revaluations. 
The Minister for Labour in addressing the Committee on this matter has not given any assurance that the 
Government in the operation of this legislation will take steps to ensure that Convention No. 87 and Convention No. 98, which it recently ratified, will be observed. If it were a matter merely of the constitutional point that the Minister raised one could have some sympathy with it, but one has very grave doubts as to whether the explanation given by the Minister is in fact correct. I do not wish to take up the time of the Committee at any great length. I wish merely to seek the Minister's assurance that steps will be taken to ensure that these conventions will in fact be followed and enforced under the arbitration and conciliation legislation. Are we to ratify conventions of this significance and then have legislation which is administered in a way that rides roughshod over the sentiments expressed in those conventions? It would be a hypocritic government that claimed credit for ratifying what it regarded to be significant international conventions and then refused to adopt legislative machinery whereby this country and the workers of this country could be assured they would have the protection of those conventions. I think it important that this matter be given very great attention. If the Government is not prepared to give these assurances we must make the public aware that the adoption of the conventions was but a facade. 
I want this evening to raise a matter which I brought to the attention of the House during question time on 3rd May when I asked the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  a question in the following terms: 
I ask . . . whether he can assure the House that on receipt of the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission he will not only forthwith announce details of grants to be made available in the 1974 school year but also announce the availability of advance grants for immediate expenditure so that the maximum number of the recommended areas of need can be satisfied immediately, dr at least by. the opening of the 1974 school year. 
I went on to say that in the policy speech by present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the 2nd December election he indicated that if elected to form a government, his government would establish an Australian Schools Commission. He indicated also that because of the sense of urgency that he had with regard to identification and subsequent fulfilment of needs, he would invite a group of leading educationists - and he in fact did so - to form a committee to advise his new government. That group was invited and took the form of the Interim Committee. That Committee, having been established, was instructed by its terms of reference to deliver a report by the end of May 1973. Throughout the period, leading up to the election and in the actions subsequent to it, this sense of great urgency about needs to be fulfilled and, by implication, the Government's intent and purpose of fulfilling the needs, was established. 
There are many people - parents and children too in this day of enlightenment; children themselves are concerned more about what is going on around them, as well as teachers and other educationists - who have gained the impression that the areas of need that would be identified by the Schools Commission or, in the interim period, by the Interim Committee and that in respect of these needs, once a commitment was made for them, the money allocations would be made available as soon as possible. Indeed there are many people who believed that the grants implicit in the recommendations of this Committee would be made available during the 1973 school year. Certainly if those grants were not to be made available during that year the impression was created that any grants so made available would be available in cheque form for expenditure in time to enable the educational facilities and resources to be available for the academic year commencing in 1974. 
The concern I expressed in the question was in seeking the Government's assurance that once the areas of need had been identified by its own Committee, once it reached a conclusion, there would be a commitment to the degree to which it accepted the Committee's report. The Minister made a great point of the fact that it was a committee to bring up a report and the Government was not bound to accept the totality of its recommendations. Having said that he went on to say that the Government would, however, treat the report with very great authority. Well, one would expect a government to adopt that attitude and a Minister such as the Minister for Education to give it the authority that he referred to. But we cannot but be a little concerned at the manner in which the qualification was placed upon the willingness to accept the identification of need as indicated by the Government's own Interim Committee. Indeed in the Prime Minister's policy speech he himself put it in a different way. He said that the report of the Committee would be used as the basis of recommendations. One wonders, when there is a commitment like that, the extent to which there can be a limitation or qualification on the commitment to flow from the recommendations of the Committee. 
Nevertheless I accept in principle what the Minister was trying to indicate, that it must be for the Government finally to determine. From the wide range of needs indentified by such a committee, if it does point to a large number of such needs, it must be for the 
Government to determine how far it can go at any particular time to fulfil those needs. The point that I wanted to emphasise in asking the question was the importance of the additional education facilities being available for the nation's children at the earliest opportunity. I appreciate that State governments as well as the Federal Government education programs set up and established in previous years by previous governments will in themselves play an important part in fulfilling and continuing to improve educational facilities available in the country. In South Australia, for example, there are many items which are regarded as areas of some significance. If the money were available currently, the programs and expenditure could be incurred now so that by the time the 1974 academic year arrives the facilities will be available. I must confess that I felt that the question I had asked was side-stepped to a degree in that the point that I wanted to bring out by asking the question was whether or not, having identified the need, the expenditure could be approved in such a manner that the educational resource* would be available, if not for the 1973 year or the remainder of it, at least for early in 1974. 
We all realise that even though recommendations are known to be possible of implementation at a future time, sometimes the actual availability to the child being educated at the school is dependent upon some money being available during the planning stages. It may be that in some of the areas the State authorities will themselves be prepared to commit their own money to ensure that the planning takes place so that 'the money available for 1974 can quicklly be converted into facilities available for the education of the children. But there are many areas in which, if money were immediately available, additional educational facilities could be provided for children in schools where there is now a considerable need for improvement of facilities. I refer to such things as the provision of extra teachers, ancillary staff and in some areas the provision of teacher housing, the provision of additional equipment and in many schools the provision of better school buildings and facilities related to buildings. Many of these improvments can only be made for the 1974 year if there are funds currently available for the planning to commence immediately. It was this aspect that I was most concerned about. I hope that the 
Minister places before the Parliament and the people the report of the Interim Committee and that at an early date following his study of the report he will make an announcement as to emergency or advanced grants so that additional educational resources will be available to the children of the nation. 
Is the Prime Minister prepared to give the House an assurance that the only other occasion on which he or his Government will put forward a proposal to seek legislation of the United Kingdom Parliament affecting Australia will be to achieve the amendment of the Statute of Westminster to provide that the United Kingdom will never again legislate for Australia? Why does he not now seek to amend the Australian Constitution with regard to Privy Council appeals by referendum of the people or by joint act of the Australian Parliament and the Parliaments of the States? Is his failure to discuss with the States the proposed amendment of the Statute of Westminster because of his desire to achieve a unitary system of government within Australia without consulting either the States or the Australian people? 
I rise to support this legislation because of my concern about the need to provide adequate benefits to the children who, in other contexts, are sometimes described as fatherless children. Already the legislation of the Commonwealth, through broadening for social security purposes the definition of the term 'widow', provides for families other than those where the family is fatherless as a consequence of the death of the father. This legislation now extends the supporting mother's benefit to another group which previously had not received that assistance. Those who will be in receipt of the assistance are those who have been under extreme financial pressure. The young mother, in the circumstances under which this Bill will provide a benefit, has had difficult choices to make as to how she would care for her children and give that child the proper mothering it deserved. Should she go out to work in a full time capacity or should she stay at home and live under extreme financial difficulties in order to provide the mother care that she thought her child deserved? The point I wish to make is that by looking to legislation to cover special areas of need there is the extreme danger that in endeavouring to remove discrimination, as it is put, against particular groups with special needs we will in fact create a massive discrimination against those who form the normal groupings within the community. 
I wish to express my grave concern about the increasing financial pressures being imposed upon the single income 2-parent families. These days a young married woman usually works until she has her first child. During the period in which she is working she and her young husband have the opportunity of living on 2 incomes. They adjust their expenditure patterns accordingly. They try to anticipate the burdens that will be placed upon them when they undertake the rearing of a family. When the first child arrives the young mother is faced with an extraordinarily difficult choice. Should she continue to work to provide her husband and her child with the financial resources that 2 incomes will bring into the household or should she stop working and provide mother care to her child. 
Whilst I support this legislation for what it will do for the children of fatherless families, I do urge the Government to look into the establishment of a far more comprehensive family benefits scheme whereby young mothers with very young children can, in effect, be paid to be at home providing the care that they wish to give to their children so that, instead of the community having to pay for substitute mothers, the natural mother of the child can provide care at home, certainly during the infant and pre-school days. 
We will find that by tackling in a piecemeal fashion the problems concerning the provision of benefits for children we will impose great pressures on the normal family in the community and that by putting those pressures on that family we will cause greater difficulties in the future because of the inability of the normal family to face the financial burdens that are imposed upon it when the first and second children come along and the mother chooses to stay at home and care for those children. In supporting this legislation, I do draw the attention of the House to the importance of it being looked at in a wider context than merely the setting of the special need groups. We now have a situation where a widow or a person in receipt of this supporting mothers benefit will receive an income considerably more in excess of the acknowledged poverty levels than similar 2-parent single income families with dependent children. This discrimination between the different family groupings within the community is likely to cause severe difficulty for the future generations of the community. 1 believe that we need to review our assessment of the period of dependency of children. We have thought in the past that a child is dependent for a period of 16 years and we have tended to adjust all our benefits on the basis that having started at birth they should continue throughout that period. I think we need to look at them in a more sensible fashion and to adjust the benefits at levels according to the needs of the families to enable them to spread their earning capacity in a way which permits them to provide their children with a reasonable standard of living at all stages of the family's development. Whilst I would have liked an opportunity to develop further the thoughts I have expressed, because of the pressures of time in relation to the debates this session it is not possible for me to examine in more detail the many aspects of the concepts I have advanced for the attention of the House. But I do want to place on record today the need for us to examine the deserving demand of the families of the nation in order to place them in a position where they too can have financial benefits to provide their children with the home care and mother care which are so essential to their educational development. 
There is one other aspect of this legislation to which I wish to direct attention for it does give me some concern. That is the circum stances under which the benefit ceases to be payable. 1 do express concern that, because of the definition in the legislation, there may be undue inquiry into the private affairs of people. If the benefit were across the board - available to the children of all families - such an intrusion of the private lives of people would not be necessary. 
Yes. I rise, having seconded the motion for the second reading of this Bill, to support it and to urge that the House give it a second reading after honourable members have had an opportunity of giving it due and considered examination. Because of the time available today, and as was pointed out in the comments made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  it has not been possible for honourable members to study carefully the full details of this Bill and its implications. In supporting it and in urging the House to give it further consideration, both in a second reading debate and during the Committee stage, I wish to draw the attention of the House to the principal purpose for which the Bill was proposed. It is urgent that active measures be introduced to help young families. 
Yesterday, in a debate on a Bill relating to the introduction of a mothers allowance or a supporting mothers allowance, I drew the attention of the House to some of the serious side effects that could arise from the piecemeal introduction of benefits aimed at helping those who are seen to be in special need. In its efforts to help such groups, the Labor Government's social welfare program, as revealed to us so far, is getting to a stage where it is placing impossible burdens on the traditional base of society, the single income family unit. The working wife is no longer a rarity. A growing proportion of married women almost certainly will be employed outside their homes during their working lives. There is an increasing tendency for married women to return to work when their domestic responsibilities permit. Many mothers consider this time to be when their children start school; others consider it to be later. But there are many young mothers who are forced by economic pressures to re-engage prematurely in paid employment when, according to their better judgment, they would be serving the interests of their children to greater advantage if they remained at home to provide their children with the mother care that they need. 
A definite work cycle is seen by some to be emerging. It is suggested that women work from the time they complete their formal education until the commencement of the family formation period. They then withdraw from the work force for a period of up to 10 years before returning to some form of employment. There is, however, a danger in making such an apparently simple summary. It can so easily create the impression that the position today for the average family is entirely satisfactory. It can also blind us to the significant trends of change and the likely impact of those trends. There is increasing evidence to suggest that a significant proportion of poverty arises from our failure to effectively relate family income to family size. For a time the wage differential between rates of pay for men and women doing the same job was justified on the ground that the wage system was thus made sensitive to family size. But such differentials were grossly inefficient in achieving their argued purpose, as well as being inequitable for many other sound reasons. If the wage system is insensitive to family size, how then do we equalise the burden of child rearing? Let me put that another way and put the emphasis where I think it should be. 
How do we equalise the opportunity of the children being reared? Clearly there is an overwhelming case against tackling the problem by efforts to make the wage  system  sensitive to family size. The task is to resolve how best to enable men and women to spread their income over their lives so as to give them the means of keeping the family when they need it. Young families must be assisted to maintain and, where possible, to raise their standards of living. It is important that we take steps to ensure that the standard of living of a man with children compares favourably, or at least not intolerably badly, with that of a single man or a single woman. It is important also that we take steps to ensure that the standard of a living of a 2 parent family where, the mother, iu the interests of her children, stays at home to care for them, compares favourably with such a family where the mother, due to the age of her children, feels that she can go out to work without prejudice to their welfare. If we fail to do this we will attain a situation which puts pressure on the young mother who wishes in the interests of her child to remain at home, forcing her out to work for economic reasons and economic reasons alone. This significant change that has taken place in our modern society is a change that has been brought about for a variety of reasons. As more and more women work and have higher and better standards of education they wish in many instances to continue te be involved in the community outside the home. 
For the young mother of today the question is no longer whether to go to work or raise children but how to make the necessary arrangements to do both. In doing both young mothers neither want to deprive their children of the mother care they need nor do they wish to depress their children's standard of living and opportunities in future life. In facing this problem the young mothers of today are very often given very difficult choices to make. The difficult choices are placed before them because of our failure and the community's failure to identify the changed circumstances and to meet the challenge of those circumstances. In endeavouring to make the arrangements of continuing to work and providing their children with the mother care that they need young mothers are put under immense pressures because of the difficulty of choosing between the limited range of alternatives that are available to them. 
Let me highlight the pressures in this way. By talking to 2 young mothers recently the point that I wish to make was dramatically drawn to my notice. Both were worried about their future. Each of them had continued to work after she was married. Each had left work when her first child was about to be born. For each of them her child now was past the baby stage yet still under school age. The one had decided to go back to work. She felt guilty as to whether she was doing the right thing by her child.  Her  former job was available, but it was a full time job and the alternative was a full time job or no job at all. Yet to take that job would enable her to ease the economic pressure on the family to meet the commitments on the first and second mortgage on the house and other loans in respect of a refrigerator, a television set and a secondhand car that she and her husband had. She also justified her decision to take full time employment on the ground that when the child was going to school the child would have greater opportunities available to it because of the economic resources then available to the family. Yet she was worried. 
A friend of hers with whom I was also speaking had a child of the same age. That young mother had decided in the interests of her child to stay at home and not take employment until the child was at least of school age. Yet she was worried. She and her husband prior to the birth of the child had both been working. The incomes coming into the family were the incomes that both of them brought in. They had adjusted their expenditure patterns to the receipt of 2 incomes. They had undertaken commitments on a house and on goods in the house. She felt that the best interests of her child would be served by her staying at home and she had decided to do this. Her worry was how to maintain on the one income the commitments that she and her husband had undertaken. They thought they could do it but they were not quite sure how. 
Continuously the difficulties of these choices were placed before these 2 young families. One mother was continuously concerned about whether, in the light of her own maternal instinct and in the light of expert information about the importance of a mother's providing mother care for her child at home, she was doing the right thing in providing substitute mothering in child care centres and leaving her child for the long periods that were necessary if she were to retain her full time employment. Whilst her friend staying at home was constantly under pressure in meeting the family commitments, she saw her friend relieved of those pressures. She saw her friend and her husband have an opportunity on occasions to have a holiday, and a holiday away from home. But she, having decided to stay at home to look after her child, did not have that opportunity because the financial resources were not available. As more and more young mothers feel that the economic pressures upon them are such that against their better judgment they must go out to work even when their young children need them at home, more and more young mothers will do so because the contrasts between the 2 alternatives of being a 2 income family and a single income one will be so marked. 
As I said yesterday in this House. I think the time has come when we need to examine urgently the resources made available to young families. We need to tackle the question afresh and not to assume that child endowment over the period from birth to the age of 16 or throughout dependency is necessarily the right answer whereby we can achieve equal opportunities for the children of the nation. We need to ask ourselves whether extended family allowances by way of substantially increased benefits should be made available at certain periods in a family's growth. We need also to look at important measures such as that introduced this morning by the honourable member for Mackellar, for this Bill is a measure to provide some alleviation of the financial burden that is imposed upon the young normal family and to relieve the young mother of some of the financial pressures that would otherwise be on that family. By all means the young mother should have the opportunity to fulfil her work force role to maintain the skills that she developed prior to leaving the work force, for many of the jobs - and one would hope most of the jobs, and one day all the jobs - that are undertaken should provide interest and stimulation in their performance. Many young women want to continue such involvement within the community, working and using the skills for which they have been trained. At the same time they want to do the best for their children, and they cannot do the best for their children if one of the heaviest burdens upon them is the burden of maintaining the home within which they wish to bring up their young families. 
This measure before the House today will give young people an opportunity to save whilst they alone are the only dependants upon their income. It will give them a real incentive to provide for the future, lt will enable them to level out the peaks of affluence against the troughs of poverty which are experienced during the life span of any individual because the demands upon the resources of our earnings vary according to our family commitments. By encouraging young people to save, by giving them an incentive to do so through the issue of these housing certificates, they will be enabled to ease some of the burden of the commitments in paying off their houses. This measure will go some distance in recognising the need to help in a big way a normal, young 2-parent single income family. 
I touch on one aspect of the Bill which is important in this regard. My colleague the honourable member for Mackellar has outlined many of the details. These certificates will be cashable at their higher value if the money is used in the purchase of the first matrimonial home of a young couple. But the certificates will not need to be cashed all at once. A young family can, say, cash sufficient to provide for a deposit on a house and, get long term finance for the balance of the purchase price. They can then continue to save by buying housing certificates recognising the increasing value of the certificates year by year as inflation goes on. Then a young family can work out for itself a planned program whereby it can cash a sufficient number each year in order to meet the mortgage payments on the house. By enabling a young couple to draw on their savings without the loss of value due to inflation the young couple will be better enabled to provide for themselves in the situation where the mother wishes to be at home in the interests of her children. I believe the community as a whole accepts that it is in the best interests of the community, the children and the families who make up the community that the mother should be at home to care for her young family. 
This legislation recognises that we must reappraise many of our social welfare measures to ensure that inherent in them are no side effects which will put impossible burdens upon the normal families in the community. That we should direct attention to their welfare is urgent. That we should do it now is important. I therefore urge this House to enable this Bill to be studied in detail, in the total context of the need for us to make it easier for the normal young family to bring up Australian children. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Taking account of the rate at which average weekly earnings are rising, does he consider that the halfyearly pension increases of $1.50 per week will be sufficient to maintain the real value of pensions? Will increases of $1.50 every 6 months ever raise the level of pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? When will pension increases cease to be dependent on financial and political considerations and, instead, be truly index related? Can pensioners expect pension increases at a rate that will not allow them to become the victims of this year's inflationary spiral? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did ratification of International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos 87 and 98 mean acceptance by Australia of every individual aspect of them (Hansard, 17 May 1973, page 2255). 
Are there any aspects of those Conventions which are impractical or irrelevant so far as Australia is concerned; if so, what are those aspects. 
Is it the intention of the Government to ratify ILO Conventions the terms of which are not fully acceptable in every individual aspect. 
If so, what degree of acceptance is a prerequisite to ratification. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Will the proposed legislation which will entitle female officers and employees of the Australian Government to at least 12 weeks maternity leave on full pay involve payments by the Government in its capacity as their employer. 
Can he say whether payments in this capacity will be in contravention of International Labour Organisation Convention 103 Article 3 paragraph 6. 
If so, could contravention be avoided by the Government undertaking the liability for the payment of benefits during period of maternity leave to all employees by whomsoever employed. 
If paid maternity leave for female officers and employees of the Australian Government does not involve payments by it in its capacity as their employer, does the provision of paid maternity leave by the Australian Government to these officers and employees discriminate against other employees. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Does the Government accept International Labour Oganisation recommendation 95 in whole or in part; if in part, which part. 
How many pregnant women employed by the Australian Government were engaged on night work during April 1973. 
How many pregnant women employed by the Australian Government were called upon to carry out overtime work during April 1973. 
In what way are the working hours of pregnant women planned so as to ensure adequate rest periods. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that South Australia will receive an additional contractual right to water only when Dartmouth Dam is completed? Does he propose to re-negotiate the agreements so that an additional contractual right to water from other storages can be made available to South Australia at the same time as would have been the case had Dartmouth proceeded according to plan? Is he aware that to improve the quality of Adelaide water it is necessary that the River Murray system be flushed and that the con struction of the Dartmouth Dam is an essential means of providing water suitable for this purpose? Why does he express concern for water for Albury-Wodonga whilst ignoring Adelaide and the proposed regional development at Monarto? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement by the Premier of South Australia, the  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan, that the Co-operative Building Society of South Australia cannot be criticised on the grounds (a) that it lends to people who have no real need to get relatively low interest loans to buy houses or &lt;b) that it borrows short and lends long; if so, what is the attitude of the Government to this statement. 
What building societies can be criticised on either or both these grounds. 
What is the average length of time upon which deposits remain with (a) building societies and (b) the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
What is the average length of time over which housing loans by (a) building societies and (b) the Commonwealth Savings Bank are in fact repaid. 
Does the Commonwealth Savings Bank borrow short and lend long. 
-This is a grievance debate and the topic that has been selected by many of us on this side of the House is not the question  of  so-called wealthy schools but is a question relating to schools in general, and the impact of a Labor Party decision, with regard to the Karmel Committee, upon education in general. If it is necessary for members of the Opposition to point to the effects of this decision upon a selected group of schools, it is because of our concern about education in general and the impact  Df  the Labor Party's decision. We have not as yet had an opportunity to debate the whole question of the Karmel Committee report, lt is to be hoped that we will be given that opportunity and adequate time to discuss the many ramifications of the large number of points raised in the report. However, because of the Labor Party's callous breach of election promises made by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and the Prime- Minister  (Mr Whitlam)- 
The Minister interjects that he has made no decision. I hope that we can draw the conclusion from the Minister's persistent interjections that he will come before this Parliament with legislation guaranteeing to every independent school grants representing 40 per cent of the recurrent costs of educating children in the State systems. 
The Federal Government would give 20 per cent to be matched by 20 per cent from the State governments. 
The Minister says that it is not the Government's promise. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out in this debate this morning that, following the previous Government's announcement that it would continue aid to the independent schools at the rate of 20 per cent of the cost of educating the children in the state system, the Prime Minister, then Leader of the Opposition, said that a Labor government, if elected, would continue aid at the rate at which it was then being given. 
We assumed that the Labor Party undertook to honour its election promise that it would continue the real value of grants to every independent school at the rate of 20 per cent of the cost of educating children in the state system and then, if over and above that, the question of needs were to be looked at, it could be looked at in an objective fashion and considered according to its merits. Because the Labor Government has failed to honour its promise and because it has rejected recommendations made by its own committee one must rapidly question the objectives of the Labor Party as to the whole system of aid to independent schools. 
This debate is concerned not merely for the category A and B schools but also for every independent school - the Catholic schools in the Catholic system as well as other schools not in a school system. What is the future of aid to the independent system? The decisions of the Labor Cabinet as so far announced apparently are now to be reviewed by the Caucus. It is a review which we all eagerly await. One would hope that the Minister for Education could be persuasive enough of his own colleagues to induce them to honour a commitment that he made on their behalf while he was shadow Minister for Education to continue proportionate aid at the rate of 20 per cent of the cost of educating children in the state system. While that doubt remains about the future of aid to the independent system, every independent school is under challenge. The parent of every child in every independent school is looking down the barrel of a gun. One bullet has already been fired by the gross discrimination against a group of schools, many of which it has been possible to clearly demonstrate are in great need. 
If one looks at the report of the Cook Committee in South Australia, one finds that that Committee, which has had an opportunity over 3 years to examine the needs of independent schools in that State, has time and again reported to the Government of South Australia that every school is in need. If one looks at the categorisation of schools made by the Cook Committee and compares it with that made by the Karmel Committee, one finds some gross absurdities and injustices. As a result of those gross absurdities and injustices, many of the independent schools that may be described as the middle grade schools are under threat of closure. They will maintain an atmosphere of confidence, but what of the attitude of parents who want the freedom of choice to send their children to independent schools? lt is a strange committee - the Karmel Committee - that says that it believes that there should be maximum freedom of choice, that the price of choice should be reduced ..nd then, in its recommendations, adds to the price of choice to a degree that many parents must realistically consider whether they can justifiably exercise that choice. 
Insofar as they will be deprived of the opportunity of exercising that free choice of sending their children to an independent school and decide as a result of the economic pressure imposed upon them by this Labor Government to send their children to a state school, they are slowing down the increase in educational output from the state system. As a result, the Labor Party is prejudicing the rate at which the quality of education can be improved in the state system. So, it can be seen that by Labor's decision to withdraw aid from a number of schools, at the same time imposing a threat that aid may be withdrawn from many others both in actual terms and in real terms, its professed claim of helping the disadvantaged students of this country, who should be helped and must be helped, will not be fulfilled so quickly as would have been the case had a fairer and more equitable system been adopted with regard to aid to independent schools. 
There has been a gradual improvement in standard in the state school system. But the Government has decided to withdraw aid from certain schools. Many of these schools cannot be described as wealthy schools. They are schools whose educational resource comes about very often by the supreme sacrifice of parents in the belief that they should give their children an opportunity that they want them to have. As a result of the Government's decision to withdraw aid from certain schools these parents will be forced to send their children to the state school system, thus adding to the cost burden of that system. Thus the adequacy of the state school system will not be improved as quickly as otherwise would have been the case. It is to be hoped that when the Minister for Education takes this matter to the Caucus he will be able to persuade the Caucus to honour his election promise so that every child can receive the grants which they were assured by the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in the month leading up to the last Federal election, would be available to them. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle- Minister for Education) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I move: 
That all words after That'- 
That the Bill be read a second time -  be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that the application of this policy, could not allow the continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973'. 
We have honoured it in 1973 and it is still continuing. I went on to say: 
If the Government wins the next election it can go on with its Bill for the next S years. But it is quite plainly impertinent on the part of the Government to attempt to bind for S years its successors when it does not know its own fate in an election. This Bill undoubtedly will become law. Therefore expectations will be built up, including extremely unjust expectations in which the wealthiest schools of this country can expect to receive the same flat rate grants as the poorest schools of this country. However, they will be budgeting for that in the coming school year. We take the attitude that in the coming school year of 1973 this Bill must therefore be allowed to proceed. But we give a fair warning that if we are in power, while there will be an expenditure on non-government schools of no less than the sum total that will bc appropriated in this Bill, the appropriation will be reapportioned - it will be reapportioned on the basis of need. 
There was no commitment whatever to continue the 20 per cent grant. 
The 'Australian' of Monday, 3 September last, in a report on Professor Galbraith said: 
The author of 'The Affluent Society' and The New Industrial State', here to lecture on the world's economic ills and his solutions to them, pounced upon a reporter who asked if we could live with a 10 per cent inflation rate. 
Certainly not. Inflation is a mean thing which causes an arbitrary and uneven redistribution of income from the poor to those who are fast on their feet. No decent economist should stand for an inflationary policy.' 
The 1973 Crean Budget is already proving itself to be an abysmal failure as an instrument for controlling inflation. Rather than control it, there are many aspects of the Budget which will fan the fires of inflation already burning in an overheated economy. History will condemn this Budget as a Galbraithian mean thing. Those benefits, which it is proclaimed to have by the Labor 
Government, will prove themselves to be illusory. They emanated from a document formulated in the fantasy land of doctrinaire socialism. The Budget seeks to create the illusion of increased concern by the allocation of increased money, but more and more people are coming to understand that this is no more than a cheap political trick. Unless the increased money allocation means an increase in the allocation of resources, when measured in real terms, increased money incomes can coincide with a withdrawal of aid or a reduction of support for worthwhile projects. 
Despite its protestations and sham concern, Australia's socialist Government has a vested interest in inflation. It seeks to delude people into believing that they are better off as a result of rapidly rising money income. The Government not only condones but also actively encourages extravagant wage demands. It pays little heed to the significance of the relationship that should exist between wage demands and productivity. Though money incomes are rising, those who receive them in this economic climate find themselves worse off. They are worse off not merely because of spiralling prices but also because the higher money incomes go the higher is the proportion of those incomes which is taken in tax. There are some who earlier on speculated that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  would introduce a Robin Hood budget. People soon came to realise that this was not an apt description of the document he presented to the House. In view of the fact that so much of the Treasurer's economic theories belongs to the 1920s and 1930s and not to the 1970s and 1980s, it is surprising that he has taken no notice of the views expressed by  Mr Scullin,  a famous Labor Prime Minister of the 1930s, who said: Inflation robs the worker of his wages'. The consequences of this Budget will be to do just that. 
It is a robber budget. It will rob the school children of the nation of the real improvement in education that all would like to see and and that many have come to expect will be achieved by this Budget. They will be disappointed. It will rob young men and women of their earnings and of the opportunity to establish homes of their own where reasonable standards of living and adequate opportunities can be provided for their children. It will rob the pensioners of their savings and, if present trends continue, will reduce the real value of their pensions when we should be increasing it. It will rob all who pay tax of some of their freedom of choice. They will have less of what they earn to spend in the way they choose. More will be taken by way of tax, compulsory levy and special purpose contribution to be spent, and sometimes misspent, by a big brother socialist government. In his policy speech prior to the last general election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
The most pressing need in the tax field is to retard the trend by which inflation has forced lower and middle income earners into high tax brackets. 
He promised not to increase income tax at any level to implement his Government's program. He gave an implied assurance that he would reduce the tax burden borne by modest income earners. He claimed that earners such as those receiving $6,000 were being taxed at rates previously applicable to high income earners. But what has he done to reduce the tax burden on modest income earners? What has he done to retard the trend by which inflation forces into higher tax brackets the low and middle income earners, the great majority of Australian families? 
As my colleague has said, the Government has done nothing. It appears that the lower and middle income earners are the ones being called upon to pay for Labor's failure to control inflation. It is they who are being required at an average rate of $10 a week per taxpayer to foot the wages' bill for Labor's expanding army of boffins and bureaucrats. Finding that it has promised not to increase tax rates on incomes, the Government has found it expedient to forget its assurance that it would tackle the pressing need to retard the process whereby inflation forces lower and middle income earners into higher tax brackets. 
The Prime Minister's several promises on taxation must be read together. To dishonour one is to dishonour all. The Whitlam Government has dishonoured these promises and in doing so has worked a confidence trick on the Australian people. It has deceived the taxpayers in the manner in which some rating authorities seek to deceive their ratepayers when they draw the ratepayers' attention only to a 10 per cent reduction in the rate charged whilst being secretive about a 20 per cent upwards movement in valuations due to a changed basis of value calculation. The Labor Government's election promises on taxation were no more than a classic illustration of the 3-card trick, and more tricks are yet to come. Many proposed schemes are, we are told, to be financed by imposts and levies to be described as contributions, but the public will not be so gullible as to fall for this deception. 
I think I am justified in labelling for the benefit of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who has been interjecting, these imposts and contributions as a tax on income, a tax which his leader undertook not to increase. The public will recognise that these charges are another form of income tax, the imposition of which will amount to a breach of Labor's election promise not to increase rates on income tax. An examination of the income tax rates scale reveals that the average net tax paid by income earners increases at roughly twice the rate of increase of most incomes. Thus, if there is a 10 per cent increase in incomes the impact of the progressive rate scale is such that tax paid will most probably rise at a rate in excess of 20 per cent. This year's Budget forecasts that average weekly earnings will rise in 1973-74 by 13 per cent. If wage earners receiving income equal to average weekly earnings receive a 13 per cent increase in earnings the amount of their tax liability will be increased by approximately 30 per cent and the proportion of their total income paid in tax will rise from one-seventh of their income to one-sixth of their income. 
In an inflationary economy failure to adjust the rate scale is a method whereby through default a government can increase the community's tax burden. The present rate of inflation is so fast that the increased proportion of incomes being clawed into Government coffers by the progressive rate scale is greater than the increase in incomes attributable to increased productivity. As the Government takes higher and higher proportions of personal incomes so people's freedom to choose how they will spend their money is progressively reduced. 
When one reads the writings of economists known to be advisers of the Australian Labor Party one cannot but be concerned. For example, on his own admission in a paper delivered last year, Profesor Downing, in support of his proposals for a nationalised superannuation scheme, said that it would involve a massive transfer of gross national product from the private sector to the public sector. In his paper he indicated that he favoured the increase in Australia's total tax take from 24 per cent of gross national product to closer to the western Europe tax take of  35  per cent, if not to Scandinavia's tax take of  41  per cent of gross national product. He acknowledged that the greater proportion of this transfer would come from the middle and lower income earners. 
To make the tax pill less bitter he suggested that the scheme be financed out of rising real incomes. Present indications are, however, that expected increases in real incomes have already been seized by this Government. Health schemes and superannuation schemes yet to be introduced for consideration by this House can be financed only by increased taxation, whether labelled so or not. Labor will increase the tax take by fostering and fanning inflation and by retaining the present rate structure in breach of its election promise to retard the increase in tax payable by middle and lower income earners. The tax structure is in urgent need of overhaul. The social objectives sought to be achieved through it must be redefined to take account of contemporary needs and present circumstances. It needs to be restructured to achieve social equity for the normal taxpayer and the normal family. The whole tax and social security system must be comprehensively assessed to remove features counter-productive to the principal goals. 
If the impact of inflation on a progressive rate scale distorts the operations of other mechanisms designed to achieve equity, the rate scale must be revised. Any study of the system must be comprehensive and in depth. A national taxation philosophy needs to be defined. Much more care needs to be taken in the study than appears to have been taken by the Coombs task force in its rather superficial examination of such questions as the degree to which social security payments by way of child endowment and existing concessional deductions such as those for dependants, education expenses and others, achieve their social objective. 
To treat revenue forgone due to the effect of concessional deductions as hidden Government expenditure is absurd. To do so implies that the rate scale has been perfectly devised in its degree of progression to equitably achieve its social objective. If the Coombs task force logic is applied to the rate scale for personal income tax as it was applied by thai body to company tax, there is a massive amount of hidden and disguised Government expenditure. The application of the Coombs reasoning to the rate scale involves treating as revenue forgone the amount by which any taxpayer's average rate of tax is less than the highest marginal rate of tax charged. 
The absurdity of such a conclusion demonstrates clearly that the rate scale, concessions, rebate systems and all other features of the tax and social security system need to be assessed as a whole. Under the present inflationary pressure growing numbers of families find themselves unable to reconcile the financial difference between the childless  2-income  situation of early married life and the single income situation that comes with parenthood. We must recognise that contemporary circumstances require that income be distributed not just between .the affluent and the needy groups but also between the affluent and needy periods of people's lives. The financial commitments for young families are heavy and by this Budget they have been made heavier. There is a case for paying child care allowances to mothers of young children as there is a case for restructuring the tax system in order to achieve equity for the normal family. 
The low and middle income earners comprise the great majority of young Australian families. What has the Budget done for them? They will pay more tax because of inflation. If they work harder and longer to pull themselves out of the financial mire their tax burden will be further increased because it brings into operation the theory of diminishing returns. They will pay more for the houses they want to live in because of rising land prices and escalating building costs. Many will be discouraged by the phasing out of the homes savings grants scheme. If they have already purchased their homes they could now find themselves, as a result of the Labor Government's high interest policies, liable to pay an additional  $20  a month in interest charges. They pay more for petrol, cigarettes and spirits, if any of them can afford to buy such drinks. Some will pay more for the freedom to choose to have their children educated at independent schools. All are uncertain as to whether they will be further  burdened  by the withdrawal of concessions now available for education expenses and for the cost of insurance which enables them to protect their families. 
I turn now to the pensioners. The Australian Labor Party promised to improve their real incomes. It promised to take the determination of pensions out of the political arena. It indicated that it would do this by relating pensions to average weekly earnings. It promised pensioners that it would increase pensions to a level equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Having achieved this goal pensions would be automatically adjusted. As average weekly earnings increased so pensions would be increased. The Labor Government, by repeating its promise, has endeavoured to create the impression that it has performed. The Australian Labor Party seeks to deceive the pensioners and the public into thinking that it has carried out or is carrying out its promise. It has done neither. Pensions are not index related. Pensioners are not getting 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Pension increases are not even linked in any way with increases in average weekly earnings. 
Labor promised to increase pensions by $1 .50 every 6 months. At the time, this appeared an attractive proposition. At the rate of inflation being experienced when the promise was made pensioners would soon have been in receipt of pensions at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and pension determination would have been taken out of the political arena. Events have proved that it is not the quantity of money but rather its quality that counts. The Liberal dollar was worth more to the pensioner than the Labor dollar. The pensioners are being doublecrossed by Labor. They, along with the family man on the middle or low income, are being made to pay the price for Labor's inflationary policies. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  like the dishonest milkman who waters down the milk, has given the pensioners an increased quantity of money but it is of rapidly declining value. Let me illustrate. If average weekly earnings are assumed to be $100 a week and are rising at 12 per cent per annum, a pension increase at the rate of $3 a year will do not more than give pensioners increased pensions to take account of increased average weekly earnings. Such an increase will not bridge the gap between current pensions and 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Average weekly earnings are rising faster than this rate and the pensions are not being increased at a rate commensurate with the current increases in average weekly earnings. Because of the way in which this Budget bears down upon the pensioner and the family man, I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  disapproving the Budget for the reasons outlined in that amendment. 
In my remarks this evening I want to start with a quotation which reads as follows: -And what of the socialists in high places? Departments, including the Department of Information, have been unblushingly used for the personal and political propaganda of Ministers. Public moneys, contributed by persons of every political colour, have thus been corruptly misappropriated for purely party ends. 
That quotation was taken from the policy speech of the Honourable R. G. Menzies in opening the Liberal-Country Party election campaign in 1949. We can see how history repeats itself, for we find today that socialist Ministers are unblushingly using, for personal and political propaganda, the funds provided to the Commonwealth by the Australian taxpayer. 
On 31 July the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  announced that he would be allocating $250,000 for the purpose of advertising not the Australian health insurance program but the proposed Australian health insurance program - a program which has not as yet been submitted to the scrutiny of this House or this Parliament, a program which has not yet been translated into legislative form and which may not ever be translated into legislative form. The Minister said that he proposed to use the facilities of the Australian Post Office to distribute the leaflets that he had published to promote the Labor Party's health scheme. These leaflets, on which $250,000 has been expended, have been distributed to post offices. I was interested to read in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of about 10 days ago a letter which read as follows: 

 Sir, we have been concerned to receive a pamphlet through the post regarding the Government's National Health Scheme. 
On inquiring I found that this was not distributed under the householder system at a reduced rate, but that post office employees were instructed to place these in letter-boxes and private boxes. 
Our postal and telephone charges are reportedly high compared with other countries and if postal facilities are to he used to distribute free propaganda with a party political bias I can see no future for a service to the public equal to elsewhere. 
The letter was signed 'R. G. Baldock, Saddleworth'. A day or so later another letter appeared in the 'Advertiser' which read: 

 Sir, Mr R. G. Baldock of Saddleworth expressed concern (4-9-73) that a New Health Insurance Plan leaflet available on post office counters should, under instructions, be delivered and placed in private boxes, when not a postal article. 
These leaflets were supplied to post offices to be placed on the counter so they could be taken by members of the public when visiting the office. 
The Saddleworth Postmaster, after receiving many inquiries and on his own initiative, went a step further by placing a leaflet in each private box (at the post office) for the convenience of box holders. 
Our postmasters, particularly those in country towns, take an active interest in the affairs of the community they serve and I would not like to see unjustified criticism discourage in any way the personal touch which, in this instance, led to the postmaster's taking a voluntary step to assist the public. 
The letter is signed 'A. H. Kaye, Acting Director, Posts and Telegraphs, Adelaide'. 
I do not want to see the public spirit of the postmasters affected in any way, and I think that if they are concerned about an important national issue they should be able to play a part in making sure that information is available to the public. But if their concern is public concern they should be very anxious to make certain that all points of view are placed before the public and that all who have a point of view have an equal opportunity to express their attitudes to the public. With this in mind I wrote to the postmaster at Saddleworth in the following terms: 
I refer to the letter to the Editor in today's 'Advertiser' from the Acting Director of Posts and Telegraphs and note with interest 'that you lake an active interest in the affairs of the community'. As you have already distributed pamphlets concerning the present Government's proposed health scheme (a scheme which has not yet been approved by Parliament) I would be pleased if you would similarly distribute the enclosed pamphlet which sets out reasons why the proposed scheme should not be introduced. Would you place this on the counter of your post office and 'take a voluntary step to assist the public' by placing a leaflet in each box at the post office for the convenience of box holders. 
With the tetter I sent a pamphlet entitled Nationalised medicine hits you where it hurts!' I hope that the postmaster at Saddleworth, and postmasters elsewhere, if they choose to display a public interest and place on the counters of post offices Labor Party - nevertheless Government-financed - publications, will provide the same service for those who hold a contrary view. I look forward to hearing that the people of Saddleworth have had the opportunity to receive the leaflets that I sent to the postmaster. 
If the Post Office is going to provide this service I hope that it will be made clear by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and his Directors of Posts and Telegraphs around Australia that the same facility will be provided to public figures concerned with public issues to make available to the public their point of view on the same terms as the post office is being asked today to make available the views of the Labor Party, which are not yet the views of the Parliament of the Australian nation. If the Postmaster-General and his officers fail in their duty it will be clear evidence that history has swung a full circle and that what was happening in 1949 - it was one of the reasons why the socialists were cast out of office - is happening today in 1973, and that happening in 1973 will be one of the reasons why at the first opportunity available to the Australian people the Labor Party will again be cast out of office and put back on the Opposition benches. 
I  claim  to  have been misrepresented by the Minister  for 
Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  In a manner typical of his personal attacks and invective against members of the Opposition he said that he was pleased to see that 1 had reformed and referred to increases in pensions. 1 point out that for many years I have advocated that pensions should be index related. For the Minister to create the impression that I have not worked to achieve that goal is misrepresentation. 
I rise to speak in this debate on the issues contained in this Social Services Bill. The Opposition supports the Bill but there are certain features of it which give us cause for concern. One that the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  has dealt with is the question of the phasing out of the age tax allowance. The honourable member seeks to justify this upon the basis that this remedy had to be taken in order to achieve equity between the pensioner and the young family man. He shows a rather strange twist of logic in the way he tackles the problems. I think the way the problem should have been dealt with was for the tax threshold, as it applies to the young family man, to be lifted. Yet if one looks at the report of the Coombs task force one sees that there is some suggestion that the Government is looking at the question of lowering the income at which young family men shall begin to pay tax. The twist of logic is made even stranger when the honourable member compares the tax position of the means tested pensioner and does not look at the position of the pensioner now to receive a means test free pension. 
In view of the logic advanced by the honourable member every means test free pensioner should be gravely worried that the approach of this socialist Government will be on a future occasion to take away the benefits conferred upon them this year by lowering in next year's Budget the tax threshold to the means test free pensioner because the means test free pensioner is, by virtue of the pension granted to him, to be made properly substantially better off and his means test free pension is to be treated as part of his taxable income. We have no objection to this. We believe that pensions paid on a means test free basis should be treated like income from every other source. But what we object to is the double taxation that is applied to those who are still subject to the means test. 
There have been occasions where we have looked at the application of the means test as though it were operating as a tax. What we do on that occasion is to assume that every pensioner is entitled to the full pension and to treat the operation of the means test as the application of a tax. There are pensioners who have very little in the way of assessable assets but who are receiving a superannuation pension, of very meagre proportions in many instances. On the assumption that a single pensioner has no means as assessed in a capital form his pension is reduced if the superannuation exceeds $20 a week. If that occurs single pensioners are taxed at $50c in the $1 of surplus income by the operation of the tapered means test. They are now to be taxed still further and many of them will be paying a rate of tax higher than the maximum marginal rate of tax being paid by the highest income earners in the land. Yet the honourable member for Perth tells us that the application of tax to these middle income recipients is an application of equitable principles. Equity indeed! It is a taking from those whose means are least in order to pay for the Government's excess expenditure in other areas. It is taking it this year when we are led to believe that next year or the year after they will become means test free pensioners and they will get their pension without this 50c in the $1 tax that applies through the operation of the tapered means test. To me this approach to the problem causes me to question the sincerity of the Government in its promise to abolish the means test. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his speech talked about the history of efforts to abolish the means test. I, with other members on this side of the House, have striven for many years to achieve abolition and in that striving we may have had significant success. Honourable members on this side of the House have seen the double means test converted into a merged means test, the disincentive features of the merged means test abolished by the introduction of the tapered means test and then a promise in our election policy speech to abolish totally the means test if we had been returned to power. The Minister in his speech makes the pretence that he has supported always the concept of the abolition of the means test. I would draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the copies of the Hansard of the early years of the honourable member's time in this House. He was one of the most bitter opponents of those who sought to oppose the abolition of the means test. He argued strenuously for its retention. Yet today- 
This is the Minister for Social Security, the man who today claims that he was the one who initiated the idea. He has taken up the idea from others and he has changed his ideas. Yet he is not gracious enough to acknowledge that there are members on this side of the House who have fought for this cause and whose efforts have brought about a situation which has enabled him this year in this Budget to introduce a further step towards means test abolition. We need now to look at the proposals of the Minister for Social Security as they relate to the members of the community who today are between the ages of 65 and 75, in the case of men, and between 60 and 75 in the case of women. Although we are led to believe that the means test will be abolished in 2 short years from now, we find a vicious imposition of tax on people whose incomes cannot be regarded as being high. 
If there is an inequity so far as the young family man is concerned, there are those of us on this side of the House who have urged for a long time that the tax threshold - the point at which tax first becomes payable - should be looked at across the broad spectrum of all taxpayers and not in the manner in which this legislation is proposed to operate. There will be occasions when the people who today are entitled to a full pension will find that, in the current year, they will be called upon to lodge a tax return and to pay tax. This is in breach of a promise that tax rates would not be increased. I would look at the promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this regard and ask him to direct his attention to the rates of tax applicable to those aged persons benefiting under the rates scale arising from the age tax allowance. Insofar as that rate scale is to be abolished and a higher rate scale introduced, there has been a breach of promise. 
I turn now to another aspect of the legislation before us. It includes a proposal to increase the rate of pension by SI. 50 a week in pursuit of a promise to twice yearly increase the pension at this rate until the time was reached when the age pension became 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This promise was made in a different economic climate to that which applies today. In making the promise, the Australian Labor Party assured the people that it would endeavour to improve the real incomes of the pensioners. It promised to take the determination of pensions out of the political arena. It indicated that it would do this by relating pensions to average weekly earnings. It promised pensioners that it would increase pensions to a level where they would be equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Having achieved this goal, Labor claimed that the fixation of pensions would be outside the political arena and not influenced by financial considerations. The Labor Government, by repeating its promise, has endeavoured to create the impression that it has performed. In doing so, it seeks to deceive the pensioners and the public into thinking that it has carried out that promise. It has done neither. Pensions are not index-related and pensioners do not receive 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Pension increases are not even linked in any way to increases in average weekly earnings. 
The Labor Party promised to increase pensions by this regular amount of SI. 50 every 6 months. Events have proved that it is not that amount which is sufficient to meet the target. I wish to illustrate that point. If average weekly earnings are assumed at $100 a week - in fact, they are more than that - and are rising at 12 per cent per annum, pension increases at the rate of $3 a year will do no more than give pensioners increased pensions to take account of the increase in average weekly earnings. It will do nothing to catch up the deficiency which exists - a promise which the Labor Party said it would achieve and carry out. Such an increase of $1.50 a week will not bridge the gap between current pensions and 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Pension increases continue to depend upon political and financial factors rather than on the welfare of the pensioners. 
In the Budget, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  forecast that incomes would rise by 13 per cent per annum. Anyone studying the present inflationary spiral in the Australian economy would be forgiven for concluding that this estimate is likely to prove conservative. But even if incomes were to rise only at the rate forecast in the Budget, pensioners' incomes, at the current rate of increase, are declining as a percentage of average weekly earnings rather than increasing as was the promised objective. In the last session of Parliament, when asked to do something about fulfilling his promise, the Minister for Social Security could only cover up his deceit by personal invective and vague and, as yet, unfulfilled promises that the position would be kept under review. Earlier in this session, in answer to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the Minister again said that the situation would be kept under review. How long will pensioners be kept waiting? They do. not want empty promises of reviews; they want action. They, at a time of rapidly rising prices, want to be able to predict what their incomes are likely to be. Labor has failed to manage the economy effectively and has failed to honour its promise to the pensioners. 
The rate at which pensions are being increased is in urgent need of review. It is no good the Minister for Social Security quoting figures based upon last year's intiation rate, or the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who spoke in an earlier debate, basing his figures on percentages in the present pension rates, which are below the level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The pensioners want to know how their incomes will be increased in the light of current inflationary pressures. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Social Security included a table in which he tried to present a rosy picture of the proposition that pensions should be increased at the rate of SI. 50 a week. He tried to do this by deceit. He used 2 techniques in order to try to create the impression that pensions were being increased substantially in real terms. Firstly, in looking at the year ended 30 June 1973, he included the increases provided by the former Liberal-Country Party Government in arriving at his figures for the increase in pensions up to 30 June this year. But it is interesting to look at those figures and to find that the rate at which pensions were increased by the Liberal-Country Party Government for the first 6 months of the year, at a time when the inflation rate was much lower than it is today, was 19.2 per cent on an annual basis. The SI. 50 a week increase that took place in autumn, when pensioners expected an increase immediately following the election and another in the autumn - only the autumn increase occurred - represented an increase on an annual rate of only 16.2 per cent on the existing rate of pension. 
The second area in which the Minister for Social Security sought to deceive was to include the Budget increase of SI. 50 a week and then to say that pensions were being increased by 26 per. cent on the previous pension. He asked honourable members to compare an 18-month increase with previous increases based upon 12-monthly comparisons. 
He is a strange statistician who this week compared figures related to 18 months with figures relating to a previous period of only 12 months without making an appropriate adjustment for the difference in time. If members of the public are to be misled in this way, what trust can they have in the Government that pensions will ever be increased to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? 
Let us look at the rate of increase that is offered in this Budget and relate it to the actual increases in average weekly earnings. In 1971-72 under the Liberal-Country Party Government pensions for a single pensioner were increased at the rate of 31.3 per cent of the average increase in average weekly earnings. In 1972-73, largely because of the pension increase introduced in last year's Budget by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the increase in the pension as a proportion of the increase in average weekly earnings based upon a goal of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings was 29.5 per cent. But what of the future? If average weekly earnings increase this year at 11.4 per cent the pension increase will be only at the rate of 24.4 per cent. If the increase is 13 per cent in average weekly earnings the increase in pensions will be at a rate of 20 per cent and pensioners will become progressively worse off. 
I challenge the Minister for Social Security to assure pensioners that future increases will be at a rate not less than 25 per cent of the increases in average weekly earnings. Until he does no pensioner can feel assured that he will ever receive 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We are tired of reviews. We want the assurance that pensions will be increased to keep up with average weekly earnings and an increase should be announced long before next autumn. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Can he say whether British and U.S.A. publishers have carved up the English-speaking world between them in a dual copyright monopoly under theterms of what is known as the Traditional Markets Agreement. 
If so, does this course prevent Australians purchasing editions of books produced in the U.S.A. in cases where British publishers have taken up a copyright option for those books even though the British publishers do not publish the books. 
What action can be taken to ensure the availability to the Australian consumer of books produced in the U.S.A. in cases where British publishers holding copyright options have refrained from making such books available to their traditional markets. 
Br J. F. Cairns - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that there is an agreement called the British Traditional Markets Agreement. Under the terms of this Agreement, British publishers have agreed among themselves that they will not publish in the United Kingdom any book originating outside the British 'traditional' market (for example in the United States) unless they secure the rights to publish that book in the whole of the 'traditional' market, which includes Australia. The 'traditional' market includes virtually any country which was included in the former British Empire, except Canada. 
It appears that under the operation of this Agreement, rights acquired from United States publishers by British publishers need not necessarily be exercised, i.e., the British publisher may not proceed to publication. In such cases, the books would not become available on the Australian market. Presumably, however, this would occur infrequently. However, other disadvantages to Australia are said to result from the Agreement. These include long delays between dates of publication in the United States and in Britain. It appears also that many American editions, which are not available on the Australian market, may be cheaper than the corresponding British editions. This would be the case, for example, when the American edition is in paperback and the British edition in hard cover. 
The matter is currently under consideration by the Departments of Secondary Industry and Overseas Trade, and I understand that other Departments have the matter under examination also. I have been informed that discussions are to take place in London during September between representatives of the Australian Book Publishers Association and the corresponding British association, at which the representatives of the Australian Association will raise the matters I have mentioned above. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment. In order to obviate the need for community action groups to fight rearguard actions to reverse land use decisions which were in their view wrong, how does the Minister propose to overcome the real problem, as identified by the head of his Department, of changing the way in which such decisions are made. How many environmental impact studies have been initiated by him or his Department? How many have been completed? How many of the completed studies have changed the decisions that would have been made but for the results of the studies? Is the Minister making progress in achieving an increased governmental concern in matters of the environment, or has his only progress been to the extent suggested by Harry Miller, that is, that of a cannibal learning to use a knife and fork? 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I second the motion. In doing so, I wish to recount some of the events that occurred yesterday and that led up to the request by me for your ruling on this matter. It is necessary to do this because, endeavour as I did, I was not able to obtain from you a ruling on the matters. The point which I sought to have clarified today was that, in order that I as a member of this Parliament may exercise the rights that are conferred upon me as a member of this House by the Standing Orders of this House, it is important that the rulings of the  Speaker  be clearly given on doubts that any honourable member may have with regard to the interpretation of the Standing Orders. 
Yesterday, at question time, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  in answer to a question, quoted from a document. As he was quoting from it, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  rose and said: 
On a point of order, I ask the Minister to table the paper from which he is reading. 
That request was made under standing order 321, which requires the Minister in those circumstances to table the document from which he is quoting. I, sitting in my place here, saw the Minister table the document. He placed a sheet of foolscap size or quarto size paper on the books in the centre of the table. He placed the document out of the reach of the  Clerk.  But I interpreted the placing of the document on the table as a tabling of the document in accordance with the request of the honourable member for New England. Then, in order that the House would be better informed and would have the information immediately before it, the  Deputy  Prime Minister asked whether the document could be incorporated in Hansard. That is the second chapter. The request was a sensible one. It was made so that the figures could be printed and available to all honourable members without the necessity for them to go to the Bills and Papers Office to seek a copy of the tabled document. 
Anxious to know what was in the tabled document, I sought to exercise my right under the Standing Orders to see that document. I found that, because it had not come into the possession of the  Clerk,  he was unable to show it to me. When this matter was raised later in the morning, the  Deputy  Prime Minister then tabled a document - not the document, because what he subsequently tabled was onethird the size of the original document that he had tabled. 
This morning I was seeking to ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to examine the circumstances in which only part - a torn section - of the document was tabled in this House yesterday. In reply, the  Deputy  Prime Minister said that I was reflecting upon his integrity. If the cap fits, let him wear it. Under the Standing Orders, he had an obligation to table the document, not part of it. There is nothing wrong with my being suspicious that he has something to hide when he, in consultation with the Prime Minister, neatly tears off the top section of the document and tables some statistical tables only. What was it which was on the top of the document and about which he was so concerned? It may be nothing. If it is nothing, let him table it and let us see. It is not for the  Deputy  Prime Minister, having been required to table a document under the Standing Orders, by a sleight of hand to take the document back from the table and say that he will then incorporate the document in Hansard. When one turns to Hansard of yesterday at page 1226 one finds at the top of that page this reference:  (The document read as follows) - 
The statistical table read as follows, but not the document, unless there was a blank sheet of paper on the top of the table. If there was, let the Minister state that it was a blank sheet of paper. Let him produce the paper from which he was reading so that he can dispel the doubts he has cast by his action in surreptitiously by sleight of hand withdrawing the document from on top of the Hansard reports on the table. Then in concert with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who examined the document with him and talked with him in the process, he neatly tore the document in half, taking from the top maybe a blank sheet of paper, but what else? It may have had something on it. It may have had information which he is concerned that we, the elected members of this House, should not see and which we, the elected members, are to be prevented from observing in exercise of the rights that we have under the Standing Orders. 
If he did not want to produce the document and if the document was of a special nature there are certain rights that he has as a Minister to indicate to the House that the papers are of a character that does not require him to produce them, but he did not exercise that right. He said: 'I table the document' and the piece of paper went down on the table. It was not handed to the  Clerk.  Then today the Minister for Minerals and Energy gets all uptight when I rise on a point of order and ask that the document be handed to the  Clerk  so that he, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, cannot perform the same trick, the same sleight of hand, to hide from the members of this House the view of documents which under the Standing Orders we are entitled to see. 
It is time that Ministers of the present Government, when called upon under the Standing Orders of this Parliament to produce a document, produced the whole document. Today we have had discussions and we have sought your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  with regard to events today and you have said that the whole document, including the incorporate attachments, must be filed. You have said that if there is a pile of Hansards or personal letters totally unrelated, unconnected to the document from which the Minister is reading they are not required to be produced. But even if you were to have ruled that only one page of a document was required to be tabled, it would have been a ruling which I think in common sense would have made an absurdity of the standing order. A single page may be part of a whole document. If its contents go over 2 pages common sense necessitates the inclusion of the whole document. But yesterday the Minister for Defence tabled as a document a single page. 
Yes. He put a single page on the table. He then tore half of the page off. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister wants to restore his integrity he should today table the whole document or alternatively - this is the purport of the motion now before the Chair in dissent of your ruling - you should require the  Deputy  Prime Minister to table the whole document. You,  Sir, are  the custodian of the rights of the members of this House. Yesterday members of this House exercised their rights. They asked that the documents be tabled. They exercised their rights to peruse those documents, and because of the sleight of hand by the  Deputy  Prime Minister those rights have been denied. It is in our view your responsibility to see that those rights are protected. In seeking your ruling this morning I wanted to obtain from you an indication whether as a member of this House I at this stage was entitled to seek your assistance to require the Minister for Defence to table the whole document which he tabled yesterday, the request for the tabling of which was never at any stage withdrawn. That was one chapter. The subsequent chapter of its incorporation in Hansard was a second chapter, a second step. If it is intended by you that when that occurs that waives the first request you should so indicate to the members of this House so they can press their rights to have documents incorporated in Hansard as a whole and not small favourable pieces suiting the Minister. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Is there any overlapping in the responsibilities of the Bureau of Environmental Studies, the Centreof Research of the Environment and the three Land Research Divisions of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether there is a Centre of Research of the Environment. 
If so, (a) what are its responsibilities, (b) who is the head of this Centre and (c) how many people are on its staff. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has his Department set up a Bureau of Environmental Studies. 
If so, fa) what are its responsibilities, (b) who is the head of the Bureau and (c) how many people are on its staff. 
 I wish to address my remarks particularly to the amendments proposed to the Aged Persons Homes Act. The Aged Persons Homes Bill now before the House makes 2 alterations to the existing legislation. Firstly, it increases the subsidy payable to eligible organisations which provide personal care services to the aged in hostel accommodation. Secondly, it widens the conditions of their eligibility. The increase of subsidy from SIO a week to 12 a week will be welcomed by all those organisations providing the subsidised care. It will also be welcomed by the many people who are being cared for. An increase of 20 per cent in the benefit seems substantial. In view of the current economic conditions, it is extremely doubtful, however, whether the increase will add to the real value of the subsidy being provided. The major expenses incurred by the organisations providing this type of care arc in the costs of food to provide the 2 meals a day which are a prerequisite of their eligibility for the subsidy, and in the wage bill they must meet in employing the stall' necessary to provide the ancillary services required. In the short run some temporary alleviation is being provided because of the widened group of people accommodated in these hostels who will now be entitled to subsidy. Up to the present time the subsidy is being paid in respect of all persons of 80 years of age and over whether they need the special care or not. It was assumed when this cut-off point was first introduced that a higher proportion of over 80-year-olds would require this type of care and it was thought that it was desirable to provide it for all, recognising that the subsidy paid in respect of persons 80 years old and over would assist the organisations in the provision of the necessary services for those of their residents under that age. 
The amendment now before the House proposes that the subsidy for 80-year-olds will continue but it will add a subsidy to people qualifying for this type of care who are under 80 and who are living in hostels whose operations are non-profit making. These people will be eligible for the benefit only if they are appropriately classified. Under the old system where every 80-year-old resident received a subsidy there was a real incentive provided both to the organisation giving the accommodation and to the resident himself or herself to use the least possible amount of these special services because it meant that there were more resources available for general use in the hostel. It meant, too, that more of the residents were able to live a normal life within the limits of their health, frail though it might have been. 
We have seen in other areas where subsidy has been given in a way that is dependent upon a person's state of health that this sometimes operates in a manner which is counter productive to the objectives now aimed at, namely, the attainment of full rehabilitation or rehabilitation to the maximum of a person's capacity. I express my concern tonight that the operation of this new subsidy in relation to people under 80 years of age may have this effect: It may result in residents feeling that they must remain dependent when they would like to become independent - to remain dependent when one of the objectives and motives of the legislation is to help make them independent. They will remain dependent because financially it is better for them to do so. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has indicated in his second reading speech that departmental officers will be liberal in their interpretation of those in need. I hope that in their interpretation of the allocation of these subsidies they will take account of the very serious effect upon those who are charged with the responsibility of administering these types of hostels and the effect on the attitudes of the residents themselves in ensuring that it does not become a question of remaining sick or remaining dependent in order to continue to be eligible for this subsidy. I personally would have preferred the matter to be tackled in a way which did not introduce into the provision of this subsidy an element counter productive to the rehabilitation of the people being cared for in this type of accommodation. 
In his second reading speech on the Aged Persons Homes Bill the Minister laid a great deal of emphasis upon his assessment of the past operation of the Act. He mentioned that the Bill before the House touched on only a small aspect of its operation - the aspect to which I have referred, the provision of additional subsidies to people in hostels - but he took the opportunity to give to this House some of his views as to the manner of operation of this Act in the past. In doing so he exposed some of his attitudes to the whole operation of the Act and to its history. He said that it was medically and psychologically bad for old people to be forced through lack of suitable alternatives to be put under care which is more intensive than they need. At the time the Aged Persons Homes legislation first came before this Parliament there was a grave shortage of suitable accommodation for the aged within the community, and it was essential then that the stock of suitable modern, convenient accommodation for the senior citizens of this country be increased. The method adopted was to involve the community, to involve people willing to establish charitable organisations whose objective would be to provide accommodation for the aged. The motivation which led to the introduction of the legislation was the desire to encourage an expansion in the availability of housing for the aged. 
Initially the subsidy was at the rate of $1 for $1. Later, in 1957, it was increased to $2 for $1. But there has been a change due to the fact that, coupled with this provision, there is a $2 for $1 subsidy there is also a ceiling or maximum limit to which the subsidy can be paid. That maximum is now unrelated to the actual experience of organisations in the cost of building suitable accommodation. In his speech the Minister criticised the scheme, as it has operated since its introduction, for failing to hit the target. I venture to suggest that when the commission that he has asked to look at this question brings down its report it should have a look at the question objectively and it may well find that the target has been hit far more accurately than the Minister suggests. 
Today there are over 50,000 people being housed in accommodation provided under the Act. 
It is interesting to take an analysis of the accommodation that is being provided. In some States - for example, in my own State of South Australia - there are 7.7 beds under the Aged Persons Homes Act accommodation for every 100 people of pensionable age. If one relates that figure to the fact that, as has been suggested, just under two-thirds of pensioners own their own houses, and if one takes into account those who are not pensioners but who are of pensionable age, one finds that the proportion is far higher than two-thirds. One realises that the percentage of accommodation provided under the Act in relation to the total number of people of pensionable age is making a substantial contribution to the stock of suitable housing available to our senior citizens. It is important that the organisations that have developed the expertise in providing this accommodation be encouraged to continue to expand to meet the remaining need. The approved organisations are establishing accommodation at a satisfactory rate and on a scale which is fulfilling the need. In my view it is rather doubtful whether there is any need to give encouragement to other organisations such as local government which could better direct its attention into other areas of assistance for senior citizens. But the existing organisations will fail in their objectives and in the objectives of all of us who are concerned that every senior citizen should have the opportunity of having suitable accommodation in his or her retirement if the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  through has failure to recognise the. rising cost of land and the rising cost of building, does not lift the ceiling limit. 
In his second reading speech the Minister spoke of the fact that there is :t S2 for Si subsidy. This is a pretence under present conditions. It is deception because there are very few aged persons organisations - indeed there would be very few government instrumentalities - that could buy land and build suitable accommodation for the aged at a maximum all-up cost of $7,800. I urge the Minister to review this ceiling limit urgently so that organisations which wish to provide accommodation for people who are on their waiting lists can economically do so. It needs to be done not in two or three months time but now so that planning for future increases in building under this Act can go ahead forthwith. 
The increase needs to be substantial. I venture to suggest that it should be lifted to at least $10,000 and possibly more to take account of the present rapid escalation in building costs. At present, even in government publications, reference is being made to this fact. In a publication called 'Shelter', put out by the Department of Housing,  Mr Neville  Brooke said: 
The Minister for Social Security is alarmed that the proportion of funds provided by charitable organisations as their share of the cost of developing home units and which is generally raised from ingoing donations has gone from 35 per cent to 62 per cent. . . . 
If the Minister is genuinely alarmed and if he is concerned, he will announce tomorrow that the ceiling limit has been increased so that people who are anxious to be provided with this type of accommodation can have it provided by organisations equipped to go ahead with building programs. I wish that the present Government would continue to support the program at the same level and at the same rate as its predecessor did so that it is genuinely a S2 for SI subsidy and not something less than a Si for $1 subsidy. In talking of this $1 for $1 subsidy the Minister, in his speech, was very critical of organisations that have provided this type of accommodation because they received contributions from ingoing occupants. I do not believe that 50,000 people would have been accommodated in modern self-contained flats, hostels or nursing homes today but for the fact that the present occupant or the predecessor in occupancy had provided a contribution towards the cost of building that subsidised accommodation. 
There is a mistaken notion in the minds of some people that in the provision of accommodation for the aged the only criterion of need is the size of a person's bank balance. True, this is important and there are a number of people who do not have much money in the bank who are in great need of the provision of suitable accommodation. Many of those who have limited means are in need of accommodation. In some cases, their need is extreme or more extreme need than that of people without resources. Yet such senior citizens are prepared to give to charitable organisations substantial sums of money in order that that money can attract a subsidy and provide accommodation for them now and for other senior citizens, who are not able to provide a contribution, at some future time when the original donor is not occupying the flat. I refer again to the article written by  Mr Neville  Brooke. He states: 
I feel sure that the Henderson inquiry will reveal that whilst there are pockets and many individual casen of real poverty amongst the aged, the major hazards will prove to be caused by, loneliness, fear, boredom and insecurity, which in turn induces a wide range of psychological, emotional, physical and general health problems. As all of these take little heed of financial and/or social status, accommodation and care services must be available to all aged persons where professional assessment verifies need, and should not depend on the ability of the applicant to contribute the required key money. Nor should the possession of some tangible assets deprive a person of adequate support, because of a misplaced belief that those with finance can purchase suitable accommodation on the open market. 
Today many senior citizens - many of them widows - are left living in large houses on large blocks of land. They are burdened with high rates and taxes, they have a problem with maintenance, a problem with garden care, a problem of loneliness and a fear of insecurity. If they were to sell their homes for$15,000 or $20,000 and make a contribution by way of outright gift to an aged persons homes organisation to enable that organisation to build further accommodation, it would give them security in retirement, it would give them comfort in small modern self-contained accommodation; it would give them, as an increasing number of these orgainsations do, ongoing care in the event of their frailty or in the event of their sickness, and current care in the event of their immediate welfare need. 
Organisations which seek these contributions do so in the belief that by building up the accommodation that they can provide they will, within a reasonable time, also have an increasing number of flats available for those whose need can be assessed without regard to ability to make contributions. I venture to suggest when that time comes many people who have money will be allocated such flats because their need will be assessed on the other criteria to which I have referred. The question of their financial resources will be of far less significance than is suggested by the Minister for Social Security. If the Minister wants to increase the accommodation available for the aged he should immediately take this matter to Cabinet and, now that he is the Acting Treasurer, he should be able to look at both sides of the account. He should be able to announce in this Parliament that the aged persons organisations which have waiting lists of contributor occupants can proceed forth with with their building programs. Two organisations in Adelaide that have a waiting list of 1,500 contributor applicants could go ahead forthwith to build if the subsidy allocation were made more realistic and not based on historic figures of many months ago before inflation caused a rise in the price of buildings and in the cost of land. 

 - Mr Speaker, this evening I wish to draw to your attention and to the attention of the House the added burdens that are being imposed by the present Government on young families of this country and in particular young families in South Australia. These burdens are being imposed in many directions on young families seeking to establish homes, to buy them, to build them, to set them up and to bring up young children. They are being badly hit by inflation, by rising interest rates and by rising taxes that bear upon them as a result of the illusion of added or increased money incomes. But there is another area in which young families in South Australia are bearing a particular burden. It is well known to this House that there has been much controversy over the question of doctors' fees. The Minister of the Australian Government in charge cf this matter, without seeking the professional advice of an expert committee, arbitrarily determined that the increase in fees that he would approve would be an increase of 10 per cent. The Labor Premier of South Australia, on his own initiative but with the approval of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  appointed the Prices Commissioner in that State to examine doctors' fees. The Prices Commissioner, with some experience in the examination of prices, went into the matter. He relied, in the main, upon information supplied by the Australian Government - information which has subsequently been proved to be incorrect in the extent of $10m on one line and other amounts of so far undisclosed errors. But the Prices Commissioner, having examined the matter on the information that was available to him, brought down a report. In that report he recommended that the fee should not be raised by more than 15 per cent. He furthermore recommended that in the case of a general practitioner charge for a confinement the fee could be raised from $40 to $60. He made no recommendation with regard to the fee charged for confinements by specialists. 
The benefit organisations, seeking to provide insurance cover for their contributors, made an application to the Minister for 
Social  Security  (Mr Hayden)  seeking hi? approval to an increase in their premiums to enable them to pay benefits to cover the increased charges which  Mr Baker,  the South Australian Prices Commissioner, had recommended to be appropriate. The Minister for Social Security refused the request. As a consequence, young families expecting children are now faced with an added burden. They are faced with a general practitioner confinement fee of $60 as approved by the Prices Commissioner. Because of the ceiling placed by the Minister for Social Security upon the benefits that can be paid by an organisation, when a claim is lodged with a benefit organisation it is able to reimburse the insured patient only to the extent of $35. The absurdity of this situation is that if one visits a specialist who charges $80 - the approved fee - and subsequently lodges a claim for a refund from the benefit organisation and the government benefit, one receives $75, which represents a net charge of $5 to the patient. But if, as is the case with 85 per cent of those people seeking medical assistance on their confinement, one goes to a general practitioner, that general practitioner can charge the Baker price of $60. If one lodges a claim for a refund one receives $35 - a net charge to the contributor of $25. This is an indirect form of placing an added burden on young families which the Government indicated it would assist when seeking election prior to 2 December 1972. 
I draw this matter to the attention of the House this evening and ask that the Minister for Social Security once again look at this question. If the recommendations of  Mr 
Baker, the Prices Commissioner in South Australia, are, as he claimed, the recommendations of an expert, will he ensure that the Government contribution is such that added burdens are not placed on young families in South Australia? If the Minister will not provide money to enable the difference to be made up out of government resources, will he grant approval to the benefit organisations in South Australia to increase their premiums so that the burden on young families, who seek general practitioner attendance on confinements, can be reduced from $25 to $5, as is the case now if a young mother seeks specialist treatment? Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise also to support the Immigration (Education) Bill 1973. Australia's migration program has gone on now for a large number of years. It has been an involved program of migrant integration of a most successful kind. I think it is common knowledge and accepted by most people that Australia has been one of the most successful countries in integrating large numbers of migrants into its community, preserving that which has been good in the cultures and backgrounds of the people who have come here, whilst at the same time integrating them with the peoples already established here. I was pleased to hear that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  at the end of his address gave some credit to the previous Government, although earlier in his remarks I was disappointed to hear him place such emphasis upon the criticisms that he made of the actions of the previous Government. 
I do not believe - and history will bear me out - 'that 2 December was a watershed in the question of attitudes to integration of migrants into the Australian community. I hope that history will record that it is a continuous process of successful integration, the one program to resolve a particular problem uncovering other problem areas then to be resolved by new and imaginative programs. 
In 1971 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government introduced the Immigration (Education) Act. That Act recognised the need for the Australian Government to support the governments of the States in filling gaps in their education programs insofar as those programs related to the education of migrant children. The previous Act, which is today the subject of the amendments we are debating, provided funds for the salaries of special teachers to give special instruction to migrant children. It provided funds for the purchase of approved capital equipment of the language laboratory type for use in the special classes to be established and funds for the provision of suitable teaching and learning material and for the costs of training courses for special teachers. 
At the time the Opposition pointed out that a need for adequate accommodation would reveal itself. Events have proved it to be correct, and it is proper that the correctness of its assessment be acknowledged. That Government supporters have now moved quickly to perform what they said was then needed is deserving of praise. For this reason I, with other members of the Opposition, support the program inherent in the Bill before the House - a program to provide the schools that have large migrant student populations where special classes are conducted with adequate accommodation to enable them to fulfil their purpose. 
The program provides for the funds to enable demountable buildings and classrooms to be built in the identified schools. I can understand the reason why this was decided upon. Demountable buildings are cheaper. They can be moved when the need for them ceases to exist. But I draw to the attention of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  the fact that in many of the schools where these demountable buildings will be provided there is already a large number of demountable or temporary buildings. As is well known, many buildings that start off as temporary buildings become permanent buildings. One would hope that the provision of demountable buildings for this type of class is not yet further proof of the maxim that the most permanent building is the one that was built originally as a temporary one. I would hope that the Minister would ask his officers, through the Education Departments of the States, to look at this question. It would be a great pity if we found that in the years ahead when we look at the provision of this type of building we find ourselves faced with the same problem which we are tackling now in the replacement of so many temporary classrooms that today exist in too many of our schools. It may be that it would be better to work out a program in consultation with the States that enables them to place some permanent buildings in these schools, providing they make available the additional finance necessary to enable permanent structures to be built. This or other adequate accommodation already within the school could then be made available for these migrant education classes so that laundries, cellars and the like no longer need to be used. 
Another aspect I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister is the fact that this program we are now debating will not be the be all and end all of migrant children's education. There are many schools with a very high proportion of migrant children. These children undoubtedly need special instruction by teachers who have had special training and who have available to them adequate teaching aids. They need to be broken up into classes of a size that enables the teacher to achieve the purpose for which this special education is provided. 
As has already been pointed out in this debate, there are a number of methods used in teaching children English and integrating them into the general educational program of the schools. One method, of course, is the withdrawal method of taking the children away from the classes to a special English class, giving them special tuition and then returning them to their ordinary classes. As has already been pointed out by one of my colleagues, this has its problems because it withdraws the child from the standard classroom curriculum in which he or she would otherwise be involved. Other schools - and there is one in my own electorate - have made specially trained migrant teachers responsible for the whole education program of a class of migrant children. The school to which I refer is using both methods. I hope that given adequate lapse of time an assessment will be made of the relative advancement of the withdrawal of children into a migrant English class and their grouping together in one class where the whole normal education program is supplemented by the special English training. 
This is possible in many schools where there is a migrant education problem because many of the schools where the problem exists have a very high proportion of migrant children. But as was pointed out by an earlier  speaker  on the Government side, so much of this problem has its origin in the homes. It was pointed out that educational deprivation often has its source in the home environment because of lack of motivation in the home environment. I think also that it comes about not because of a lack of motivation in the home environ ment but rather because of a lack of understanding there of the objectives of the education process. I draw to the attention of the Minister the urgent need to study this problem to ascertain the extent to which some of the difficulties confronted by migrant children in progressing through the education system derive not from the lack of motivation on the part of their parents but from the lack of understanding of the parents of what the schools are trying to achieve. 
Many migrants themselves are illiterate. Many have had very little education. Yet in spite of these disabilities they have an instinctive appreciation of the importance of education for their children. Nevertheless, they very often suffer from the disability that they do not know what the education process is trying to achieve for their children. They experience difficulty in communicating with the school and the school with them. Whereas I commend the Minister for introducing this Bill which will provide better facilities within the schools to enable these children to be given a better head start to overcome the lack of ability to communicate because of language difficulties, I draw to his attention the rising need to make provision so that the schools can communicate with the parents of these children. 
I have visited schools in my electorate since my election in December. A number of these schools have a high migrant student population, one having a migrant population as high as 80 per cent. Yet at very few of these schools are there teachers who themselves have come from the country of origin of the majority of children attending those schools. In some cases where there are teachers from the country of origin of the migrant children, although they have become integrated into the Australian way of life, they are somewhat reluctant and hesitant to use their background knowledge of the cultures of their country of origin to act as communicators between the school community and the parent community. Of course the problem is not resolved, if for example, a school with a large number of children of Italian origin has an Italian-born teacher because at that school there may be children from half a dozen different Italian communities whose cultural backgrounds are significantly different. I suggest to the Minister that in the near future he will find, if he has not already found, the need to provide schools with funds to enable them to engage liaison officers whose job would be to act as representatives, to go out into the community and into the Italian households to talk to the parents in their own language with a full knowledge of their own cultures in order to explain to the parents the objectives that the school is seeking to achieve in the education process being provided for their children. I have come across many migrant parents who, sensitive, concerned, yet nervous about communicating with the school, wish they had a better understanding of what the school is trying to achieve. I have also come across many teachers who also wish they had the opportunity of communicating in a more real fashion with the parents of these particular children. 
I urge that efforts be made to build bridges of understanding across these cultural gaps. It is necessary to build the bridges from both banks. We must train the teachers so that they have an understanding of the cultural backgrounds of the children they are teaching. As I mentioned a few moments ago, not merely an understanding of the Italian culture or the Greek culture but an understanding of the Calabrisi culture, the culture of the Neapolitans, of the northern Italians and of the many villages and other communities within Italy - I use Italy as an illustration - with different cultural backgrounds which result in the people having differing attitudes and differing problems with respect to their understanding of the education process. I think, too, the teachers should be trained so that they can help the Australian children or the children from other countries to understand the cultures of children with whom they are mixing within the schools. 
From the other bank of the cultural gap is a need for a liaison officer to go out into the community to help the parents of migrant children in their understanding of the education process. At this time, when so much is being done to give a degree of independence to school communities and so much is being done to involve the parents in school councils or welfare clubs, assistance needs to be given in those deprived schools where there is this cultural gap to enable the school council, welfare club or parent group to ensure that people do not stay away because of a nervousness or fear that they will expose their lack of appreciation and understanding of the education process. I would therefore urge upon the Minister that he give serious consideration to seeking Cabinet approval for the provision of funds so that liaison officers, specially trained in the cultural backgrounds of the children attending particular schools, can help to bridge this cultural gap. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the publication entitled' The Australian Health Insurance Program' descriptive of a program which at 18 September 1973 had not been approved by the Australian Parliament. 
If so, would it have been more accurate if the publication had been entitled 'A proposed Australian Health Insurance Program'. 
Did he say that he was anxious that there should be full public debate upon the Scotton and Deeble Report which contains an outline of a proposed Australian health insurance program. 
Will he heed the views expressed by all concerned people who take part in the public debate. 
If so, does not such willingness confirm the fact that the description contained in 'The Australian Health Insurance Program* relates to a proposed program. 
The House is at present debating the Schools Commission Bill. This Bill has been introduced by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in performance of an undertaking given by his leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his policy speech prior to the last election. In that policy speech the Prime Minister, then the Leader of the Opposition, said that the Australian Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should adopt some methods to assist schools as it has adopted to assist universities and colleges of advanced education through a commission. He went on to say: 
We will establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government-- 
I emphasise the words 'non-government' - primary, secondary and technical schools. 
It is interesting to trace that promise back to the Labor Party's convention at Launceston where the Party resolved: 
That the Commonwealth should establish an Aus tralian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students. 
The Labor Party stated further: 
That the Commonwealth should make to the States grants to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities. 
The promise of the establishment of a schools commission created an impression in the public mind that certain goals would be achieved. It is interesting now that we see the detail of that legislation to note the changed emphasis. The emphasis that originally pointed to the importance of examining the rights and interests of students and children of our country has been translated into a concern for schools rather than for children themselves. It might be suggested that to make that point is somewhat academic or somewhat semantic. But I believe it is quite significant that there has been this change in emphasis away from a concern for the Australian children to a concern for schools because in expressing that concern for schools the legislation that we are now considering places great emphasis upon the schools run by the States and by the Australian Government in the Territories that it administers. 
We in the Opposition support the need to look at the educational needs of handicapped children and handicapped young persons and to consider the needs of disadvantaged schools and of students at disadvantaged schools. We endorse the concept of the need to encourage diversity and innovation in education in schools and in the curricula and teaching methods of schools. We support the concept of the need to stimulate and to encourage public and private interests in and support for improvements in primary and secondary education and in the schools and school systems. We also support the concept of the desirability of providing special educational opportunities for students who have demonstrated their ability in particular fields of study. We look also with favour on regard being paid to the needs in relation to primary and secondary education and in school and school systems to promote the economic use of resources. But we seek to amend the legislation to have a broader concern for every Australian child. 
We have in recent months had quite an extensive public debate arising out of the recommendations contained in the report of the Karmel Committee insofar as that report has had a significant effect on the educational opportunities and future of a significant group within the Australian community. That group is the group of students who receive their education in the independent system. It has been said in today's debate that the concern that is being expressed is a concern for a very small minority of Australian school students. I draw to the attention of the House the fact that our concern is a concern for every Australian student and for a much larger number of children at independent schools than is made out. In fact, if one looks at the recommendations of the Karmel Committee one finds that, for more than 50 per cent of the children attending independent schools in the nonsystemic section of independent schools, the aid being given by the Australian Government to those schools will be reduced in real terms in the forthcoming year as against that which they would have received under existing legislation. 
But nevertheless, the numbers who attend the independent schools to which I have referred are a significant group of the students attending Australian schools. The fact that this large number of students and their parents are going to be prejudiced in the way that they will be prejudiced as a consequence of the report of the Karmel Committee is something which is of great concern to members of the Opposition. We seek to amend the legislation to include reference to the provisions in the United Nations Charter which deals with the right of every parent to choose the kind of education that shall be given to his children. The amendment that we seek to include in the legislation is to require the Commission to have regard to the principles as set out in article 26 of the United Nations Charter on Human Rights. The relevant sections of the United Nations Charter are as follows: 
Everyone has a right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. 
Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. 
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. 
I submit that this implies that that right of choice shall be a real right. It is one thing to say that there is a right of choice; it is another to push such a price on the right of choice that no real choice exists. Even the Karmel Committee in its report gave the impression that it would like to see the price of choice reduced. Yet, in its recommendations it increased the price of choice. 
Furthermore, the actions of the Government went a stage further. Instead of allowing the adjustments recommended by the Karmel Committee to be phased in over a period of time the Government made a decision that the price of choice would be increased immediately. The implications that flow from that are quite serious. We in the Opposition question the sincerity of the Minister and the Government. During the election campaign the Government made promises that no aid being given to independent systems would be reduced. Following the tabling of the Karmel Committee report when the Minister himself indicated that he preferred to accept the recommendations of that Committee- 
Yes, the Minister did, and in doing so he indicated his views of concern. Yet the Government of which he is a member went against the recommendations of the Committee and presumably against the Minister's recommendations and as a result destroyed or reduced the right of choice that Australian parents have to send their children to independent schools. 
Nobody is stopping them by direct prohibition. But the Government is stopping many of them by raising the cost of education in the independent system and by creating a situation of which government supporters themselves have been critical, that only those who have means, and substantial means, are able to exercise that right of choice. Why should not that right of choice be extended beyond the limits to which it is now available? Why should not many more parents have the opportunity, within their financial means, to exercise a choice as to whether or not they will send their children to a state system school or to an independent school? It seems to me ironic that at this time when the Karmel 
Committee and other education experts are advocating community involvement in education and community participation in the running of schools and the direction and development of their educational outreach, that this Government, professing that it supports community involvement, should deny to communities who wish to group together, for whatever reason it may be, in supporting independent schools the right of choice by putting the price of that choice so high that the numbers able to exercise it are severely reduced. 
When we come to look at this legislation we see that there is only passing reference in it to non-government schools - the independent schools. In fact, this legislation contains a criterion - an obligation upon the Commission to pay regard to the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain school systems that are of the highest standard and open without fees or religious tests to all children. No one would deny that governments should provide free education of the highest possible standard. But the inclusion in this legislation of the reference to a primary obligation has been interpreted by many in the Labor Party's anti-independent school lobby as an explanation and justification for the concentration of effort on the State-run schools and the withdrawal of support from the independent school system. 
Of course you have an obligation to put a school in areas so that free education is available to every child. But you know as well as other people know that there are supporters of the Government Party who interpret the words I referred to as justification for diverting funds solely to the state system and not providing any support for the independent school system of education. 
I know what a state school looks like. I have visited IS state schools in my own electorate in recent months and the work that is going on in those schools is highly commendable. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
How many environmental impact studies have been initiated by him or his Department on projects proposed or initiated by (a) the previous Government and (b) the present Government. 
What are the projects in respect of which environmental impact studies have been or are being made. 
Will he make available to the public all completed impact studies as soon as practicable after their completion. 
Will he inform the public of environmental impact studies as they are initiated from time to time. 
If not, how can environmental groups do other than busy themselves in fighting rearguard actions if the public is unaware of proposals likely to prejudice the environment. 
In what way is it intended to involve the affected public or the public in general in the decision-making process ' so that the need for rearguard actions to protect the environment is reduced. 
Is it a fact that the real need is to change the way in which land use decisions are made. 
If so, what changes have been made in the way in which the Government makes its land use decisions. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does his Department or any other Department have or propose to have on its establishment positions designated as (a) Senior Dentist for the A.C.T. School of Dental Services, (b) Director-General of Health Dental Services and (c) Assistant DirectorGeneral of Health Dental Services. 
If so, and if these positions have been filled, was each of the present holders of those offices appointed after each such position had been publicly advertised. 
If all, or any, of these positions are vacant or yet to be created, will they be filled only after public advertising seeking applicants for the positions. 
What are, or will be, the responsibilities of the holders of each of these offices. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many tenders were received for the construction of the new oceanographic ship? 
From whom were the tenders received? 
What were the tender prices submitted by the tenderers? 
How much is it estimated it will cost to have the oceanographic ship constructed at the Williamstown Naval Dockyard upon a truly comparable basis of calculation? 
We are at the present time debating the estimates relating to the Department of the Environment and Conservation. This is a wide-ranging topic and in the time available to each honourable member who wishes to speak upon these estimates there is, of course, not adequate space in which to deal with all those topics that are of interest. However, there are one or two matters upon which I would like to speak this evening. Firstly, I would like to take up the point made by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  a little earlier this evening. He spoke of his concern about the environmental effect - particularly with reference to water - on the development of a new reservoir in the State of Victoria. He drew to the attention of honourable members the disadvantage and possible risk attached to the re-use of water for domestic purposes. He read from a report which indicated that where possible water that does not need to be treated should be used for domestic purposes. 
It is perhaps significant that tomorrow further steps will be taken with regard to the development of a complex at Albury-Wodonga. As a South Australian - becoming parochial for a moment - one wonders whether an adequate impact study has been undertaken to ensure that the River Murray system does not become a giant sewerage drain from a large community complex in its upper reaches. The ultimate consequences of the River becoming a sewerage drain would be that the people of the city of Adelaide, which has already a developed and sizeable population, would have to have their water treated to a far greater extent than is even now necessary. There has been little discussion, little reference to the significance on the effect on the River Murray water system, of locating a large urban area on an inland river system. It is perhaps significant to note that most of Australia's population development has in fact taken place on our coastline and, even there, we have problems enough, as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  pointed out, in dealing with sewage, effluent and other forms of waste. 
I draw to the attention of the chamber the great concern about the impairment of the River Murray system by the location upon it of further large urban development. I urge the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to act as the Government's conscience and as the nation's conscience to make sure that we do not develop urban areas out of political whims - building castles in the sky - and seek to place them at locations which seem attractive for political purposes. When analysed in the calmer atmosphere that should prevail in a department such as that headed by the Minister, we should, if we find there are risks of an environmental nature which cause us to question politically made decisions, be strong enough to be outspoken and to have those decisions changed. 
In this debate many of the speakers have drawn attention to the significant - though I still suggest small - increase in the Australian Government's financial allocation in respect of its concern and responsibility for the environment. I ask the questions: Where is the money for the buying of national parks? Where are the funds so that more historic buildings can be bought and preserved? Where is the money to enable the greater protection of our beautiful coastline? Where are the resources whereby governments - State, Australian or local - can be funded to enable them to buy other areas of environmental significance? Maybe the Department is gearing up. We would hope that if this process of gearing up did take place, in the next Budget there would be the signs of very large increases in the budgetary allocation to achieve some of the things which the Labor Government in its election promises led the people to believe would in fact be achieved. 
I, like other honourable members and concerned people, am worried that very often in debates such as this we talk a lot about the environment and create the illusion that a great deal is being done when in fact little is being done and that which is being achieved is often being achieved in a crisis atmosphere; where large sums of money are needed to save something in respect of which the public conscience cries out that it should be saved. Then we find that the resources of the nation are spent in saving something which, if the public had been alerted previously, could have been saved at a fraction of the cost and the balance of the money used for saving that environmental resource could have been spent in preserving other significant assets. 
It has been of concern to me that in answer to questions the Minister has indicated that little has been achieved in the way of consequences of environmental impact studies. I drew to his attention in a question on 18 September that the studies are undertaken only to preserve a rearguard action. He pointed out that he at that stage was disappointed in the results so far achieved. Later I placed on the notice paper a question seeking information about the number of impact studies that had been carried out: I asked: 
How many environmental impact studies have been initiated by him or his Department on projects proposed or initiated by (a) the previous Government and (b) the present Government. 
I was disappointed to read the answer that not one impact study had been initiated by him. He pointed out that it was the responsibility of the department or organisations putting forward the proposal to initiate the related environmental impact statement. I would have thought that it was the responsibility of his Department to initiate impact studies in areas to ensure that departments take appropriate action. 
If we go back a little further and look at the Press statement of the Minister on 13 February this year we see that he announced the guidelines that would be used by his Department in requiring impact studies to be preserved. He said that these statements will now be required for all departmental projects within Australia which have significant environmental consequences where Australian Government funds are involved or where federal constitutional power is involved. One would have thought that Australian Government funds are required in a vast range of major national projects and indeed in a vast range of projects conducted by the States. He said that these statements will be required, yet in his recent answer to me he told me that none has been initiated by his Department. I urge upon him and his officers that their role should be that of an auditor or alternatively it should be a conscience role - a role whereby public attention is drawn to projects in their embryonic stage. Otherwise we will face the consequences of a government department - State or Federal - developing a project, having its own impact study, announcing it to the public and the first time the concerned public becomes aware of the project is when it is announced as a fait accompli. Then there would be a call for an independent inquiry. There would be inadequate time for it to be carried out. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the subsidy payable under the Aged Persons Homes Act for the provision of accommodation for persons of pensionable age at a rate of $2 for $1. 
Is there a ceiling limit on the amount of subsidy available for each person for whom accommodation ls to be provided. 
If so what is that ceiling limit and when was the limit last adjusted. 
What increases have occurred in the cost of land and the cost of building since the ceiling limit was last fixed. 
What increases have occurred in the estimated and actual average cost per bed of providing accommodation by way of self-contained units, hostel accommodation and nursing homes since the ceiling limit was last fixed. 
Is the position being reviewed. 
Can eligible organisations expect a lift in the ceiling limit so that the subsidy available is restored to $2 for SI for the actual cost of providing accommodation under the Act. 
Many of the speakers on the Government side in trying to defend the actions of their Government with regard to the withdrawal of aid to categorised schools have concentrated their attention on the withdrawal of aid from category A schools. However, if the figures are examined it can be found that there is in fact a withdrawal in real terms of aid from many schools in lower categories than category A. If one extends the figures on the basis of the current rate of increases in prices, or on the increases in average weekly earnings, or takes account of claims for salary and wage increases in the area of professional teachers, one can forecast the likely increase in the cost of education in State and independent systems. If one makes this forecast and is most conservative in one's estimates, the result suggests that there will be a 10 per cent annual increase in the cost of educating children in State schools, reflecting itself in the cost of education in the independent system. 
Aid in terms of the amounts provided for in the Karmel report will result in a real reduction in aid to the independent schools, not only those in category A but also, those in categories 
B, C. D, E and possibly F, if the increases in the cost of education rise at the more likely rate of 15 per cent or even 20 per cent. So, it is totally dishonest to suggest that those members on this side of the Committee who express concern for independent schools are worried only about those schools categorised in category A. In fact, those schools are the least of our concern. We are worried for those parents who wish to exercise the freedom of choice to send their children either to a State school or to an independent school. They should have a choice and they should not be priced out of exercising that choice. The decisions of the present Government will have that effect and will make it extremely difficult for many parents to finance the fees necessary to pay for the education of their children in independent schools. Many parents of these children today are making supreme sacrifices in order to provide their children with the sort of education which they want to give them. 
It strikes me as extraordinarily strange that at a time when we are talking about community involvement in education we should deny to a community of Catholics, a community of Jews, a community of Anglicans, a community of Presbyterians or a community coming together because the people have particular attitudes to a style of education, an opportunity to choose to send their children to a school because we impose upon them their obligation under the law to meet their taxes and at the same time require that they pay the total cost of their children's education at an independent school if that school reaches a particular standard. If there is to be an adjustment between those with high incomes and those on lower incomes, let that adjustment be achieved from the tax systems and not by an indirect camouflaged system of taxation by imposing a price on people's freedom of choice. 
We have in office today a socialist Government. It is a Government which mouths the phrase 'freedom of choice'. But when it is pressed on the point as to what it means, we find that it means a choice to make a decision within the limits of those alternatives selected by that socialist autocratic central Government. In this area of community participation in education, we are seeing as a result of the recommendations of the Karmel committee an expansion of the concept of community as well as parent participation in the school community. I hope that as this program is developed governments, both Commonwealth and 
State, will look into the question of the extent to which the nation's education and community resources are, in some areas at least, overcapitalised. What I mean by that is that in new and developing areas we build first-rate schools and provide them with excellent facilities, but then use them only over a limited period of the year and over a limited period of time in any one week. 
In recent days I have been in touch with many people in the state schools throughout my electorate. I have talked with them about the involvement of parents and the involvement of the community in the activities of the school and the activities of the education centre for the district that that school should provide. Members of school committees have said to me that they are concerned that, in the event of the use of school facilities for non-school activities, the ovals and extra facilities which the hard working parent committees provide for schools will suffer from the wear and tear that naturally occurs. 
This is not rubbish. What I am expressing is the view expressed by parents involved in the schools within the area that I represent. They have expressed concern that, if the school facilities are used for other than school activities, there will be wear and tear. Honourable members opposite have their heads in the clouds if they believe that wear and tear will not occur, because in every community - be it a school community or the community at large - there are those who lack a sense of responsibility. 
The point I wish to make is that it seems to me to be a very expensive solution of this problem to say that the answer is to close the schools when the school bell rings at the end of the day and not to use those facilities either for the school community or for the community at large. Where there are buildings, grounds and facilities, many of which are under-used - that is not to say that there are not some schools where the size of the community within the school is so large in itself that the physical facilities of the school are used to the optimum or in some cases are inadequate - and where the facilities are adequate and can be used for the community at large to provide library facilities, recreational facilities, school grounds and adult education facilities, I suggest that ways and means of using the community facilities in school buildings and their related grounds should be examined. 
One suggestion I would like to put to the Committee is that consideration should be given to providing funds to enable the appointment of not caretakers but people with a greater sense of vocation and training - perhaps recreation officers or activity officers - with responsibility for the care and custodianship of the school facilities so that neither the school committee nor the staff will refuse to allow the use of school facilities by the parents or the school community because of the current concern that their hard won and hard worked for assets, gained for the use of the school children will run the risk of being damaged. If these recreation or activity officers were attached to schools they could serve a very useful purpose in providing maximum use of school facilities and greater opportunities for the school children in out-of-school hours still to use the excellent facilities of school libraries, school playing grounds and the other facilities that exist in the schools. I urge the Government to look into this question in order to see whether this scheme can be expanded. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I spoke earlier in this debate, but I want to use the opportunity to speak a second time on the estimates for the Department of Education to direct the Committee's attention to the Government's slowness in announcing its policy concerning the development of pre-school education. I am aware that a committee is studying this matter at the present time, but in many communities large numbers of parents are working very hard to form and establish kindergartens. At the present time they have no indication as to the manner in which pre-school education is to be provided. The kindergartens have been an excellent illustration of community involvement in education. 
And we will need the kindergartens in which the teachers will be able to teach. In an electorate such as mine, where there is a large number of young families, there are many kindergarten committees. There are more committees without kindergartens than there are kindergartens with committees. Those committees are working hard, raising funds in order that they can establish kindergartens for the communities in which they live. Although all parties have expressed the desire to see pre-school education made available for every child, the manner in which that pre-school education will be provided is giving many people a great deal of concern. Will it be possible for small community groups to establish kindergardens with Government aid and Government support, or is it the intention of the Government to establish a monopolistic system in the provision of State pre-school education? 
 I am asking the. question. What will the Government provide? The problem for the community is that there are many people who would use their initiative, through self-help, hard work and sacrifice, to provide some of the funds which would enable preschool education centres to be established, but because of the uncertainty that is being created by the lack of a pronouncement as to the way in which pre-school education is to be provided there is a great deal of hesitation. The program of expansion by the community, through self-help, of pre-school education facilities is being retarded by the uncertain atmosphere which has been created through the lack of announcements as to the manner in which pre-school education is to be provided in the future. 
I think that is important. All I am saying is that I hope that the report will be presented soon. I go on to say that I hope that the report will recognise the contribution that parents and communities can make. Undoubtedly, when we are aiming to provide preschool education facilities for the community as a whole, it will not be possible to do everything at once. But I do hope that there will be an involvement of the community and an opportunity for the community committee to be established and to raise funds to establish its kindergarten with Government support and that the Government will not adopt the philosophy that the only system of pre-school education that can and should be provided is that which is totally provided by the Government. If that approach is adopted there will be, firstly, a reduction in community involvement in education and, secondly, a very much slower development of the program of pre-school education for every child. 
Whilst I recognise that in the pre-school sphere undoubtedly it will be necessary for governments to concentrate more effort in some areas than in others, I do urge upon the Government and upon the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  whom I am pleased to see in the chamber at this stage, that due recognition be given to community initiative. If members of communities are prepared to go out and, by their own efforts, raise funds and organise the building of kindergartens, I hope that they will be encouraged to do so by Government support on a positive incentive basis. 
Yes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  I ask the Minister to keep his remarks brief. 
I am very glad to have the assurance of the Minister that the States will not be placed in a straitjacket as to the manner in which they will use funds for the development of pre-school centres. I would therefore take that as an assurance that in the case of South Australia there will be no strings attached to Australian Government money made available to the South Australian Government that would prevent the support now being given to the establishment by communities of kindergartens where they, of their own initiative, introduce an element of selfhelp. 
I accept the fact that there has to be a recognition that there is a need for support in the capital area as in the recurrent expenditure area. If this money is made available to the States in the way in which the Minister has indicated, without strings attached, the States will be able to assess for themselves the needs of their own communities. 
In the developing suburbs in my own electorate are a large number of young families coming from all walks of life. They are prepared to provide an element of selfhelp and they would be greatly encouraged if further funds were made available to South Australia and the South Australian Government were then enabled to help subsidise those committees in the purchase of land. If many of the committees that are now currently operating and raising funds to buy the land on which the kindergarten would be built, had available to them the facilities of lending institutions, those committees would be able to provide kindergartens for children who are now without them. Instead of there being a situation where there are more committees without kindergartens than there are kindergartens with committees, the situation would be reversed and we would be getting closer to the target of providing pre-school facilities for every child. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the Government's announced support for quarterly cost of living adjustments for wage earners, will the Prime Minister support quarterly cost of living adjustments for pensioners and superannuitants, together with supplementary annual or half-yearly adjustments to maintain relationship with average weekly earnings so that those dependent on these incomes share in the growth of real incomes and are not disadvantaged by rising prices? Does the Prime Minister agree that in view of the current rate of inflation there is urgent need for a preChristmas increase in pensions to enable pensioners to cope with rising prices, including rents, rates and taxes, and to prevent their pensions from falling behind the announced goal of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, or does he see himself as a law broker, willing to act only in return for support, on this occasion in the form of votes at the forthcoming referendum? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has the Land Research Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization been split into three divisions dealing with environmental matters. 
If so, (a) what are the responsibilities, (b) who is the head and (c) how many people are on the staff of each division. 
Earlier this morning I seconded the motion moved by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  The motion urges that this House approve of the appointment of a select committee of the House of Representatives to inquire into and report on the effects on the Australian community if the present voluntary health insurance scheme is replaced by a compulsory, tax financed health insurance scheme as has been recommended by the Health Insurance Planning Committee and, in particular, to determine any likely inflationary effects, any over-utilisation of medical and hospital services, the cost to individuals, particularly in relation to hospitalisation, any discriminatory aspects for certain categories of taxpayers, any erosion of an individual's freedom of choice of doctor or hospital and its effect on the national economy and the quality of health care for present and future generations of Australians. 
We have heard the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  running away from a challenge to have the proposals of his Committee tested by a select committee of this House. He tabled today something that he called a White Paper. I would describe it - I noted the colour of the cover and it is appropriate - as a whitewash paper. It is a whitewash of a proposal contained in the so-called Green Paper', a most deficient and defective document which sets up a glorious economic plan for the rearrangement of the financing of health care in this country. But in rearranging the finance of the health care program of the Australian nation it ignores the most important person in the whole scheme. It ignores the patient; it ignores the important relationship that needs to exist between the patient and his doctor, the patient and his hospital. It takes away the freedom of choice and in spite of the Minister's constant reiteration of his support for freedom of choice let me stress to the House that the Minister does not believe in the form of freedom of choice that those words usually connote in the minds of the average Australian. It was said a number of years ago by a leading United Kingdom diplomat when he was describing the attitude of mind of supporters of an East European brand of socialism that:  . . they have always been characterised by their extraordinary ability to cultivate falsehood as a deliberate weapon of policy. They began by adopting an attitude of complete cynicism about objective truth, denying its value, if not its existence, declaring the lie to be no less useful and respectable than the truth if only it served the purposes of the party. Departing from this premise, they have systematically employed falsehood not just as a means of deceiving others and exploiting their credulity, but also as a means of comforting and reassuring themselves. It has seemed to them at all times easier, and in no way improper, to operate a militant political movement on the basis of convenient falsehood than on the basis of awkward truth. 
On the vital question of freedom of choice, which relates primarily to the freedom to establish relationships in this policy area - relationships between patient and doctor, patient and the hospital - the Minister for Social Security, though he mouths the phrase freedom of choice', nevertheless has in his mind a totally different concept from that held by the majority of his listeners. A leading Liberal, a founder of the Liberal Party of Australia, said some years ago of the Australian socialist: 
The Australian socialist's view bluntly expressed is that the individual is destined to be the servant of the State whose corporate political wisdom will direct and control his activities leaving him little freedom of choice but a clear duty to obey. 
This is the mental attitude of members of the socialist Government of this country and every policy program that they introduce is based upon that philosophical mental attitude and needs to be tested against the philosophies which they spouse. When they talk of freedom of choice they do not mean freedom of choice between doctors and patients, between patients and hospitals. They mean the doctor that they direct, that they choose as a part of the corporate will that they wish to impose upon the Australian people. 
The whitewash paper that was introduced today was debated by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  It was given to members of the Opposition 5 minutes before this debate came on. Reports of it have appeared in the Press and yet it was not supplied to the members of the Opposition. We have not been given an opportunity to study in depth any variations in the proposals of the Scotton and Deeble planning committee. A quick perusal of it in the limited time we have had available makes us wonder whether there are any changes. This scheme, which is based upon the Scotton-Deeble report, will take away freedom of choice from people to determine which doctor they shall attend. Every effort should be made to increase that freedom, not to take the freedom away from those who have it today. We should seek to raise the standards and opportunities for choice, not to deny them to those who have such freedoms today. 
I turn now to the recommendations of the Scotton-Deeble report. Let us look at what it has to say on some other important matters, matters which the Minister for Social Security is unwilling to enable a select committee of this House to test by calling objective evidence. He invited submissions when he tabled the Green Paper, but what has happened to those submissions? Have we had an opportunity to see them? Can we be assured that they were given proper weight? Can the members of this House not be given the opportunity to test those submissions, to make comments about them and to make a judgment upon the philosophy contained in the report? As has already been pointed out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  a White Paper is a paper which normally is brought into the Parliament to enable members of Parliament and the public to debate a major issue. But this White Paper is brought in and we are told that legislation will be based upon it. It is not a White Paper; it is a misuse and abuse of the concept of what people believe to be a White Paper. As I said earlier, it will be described aptly as a whitewash paper. 
Let us turn now to the question of the costs of the proposals contained in the ScottonDeeble report. What the people of Australia want their governments to do is to devise ways and means whereby the quality of health care can be improved. So much of health care depends upon personal relationships. Much of what is proposed by the Government denies those features which will maintain and improve the high quality of health care in this country. Let us look at the cost that people will have to bear for a less effective scheme and one which shows less concern in terms of the contribution that it makes to their health care. In the first year we are told that there will be a tax levy. That is what it is. There was only one way to get around the promise that income tax would not be increased, and that was to label the new impositions as contributions. But really they are taxes. The amounts that are to be collected under this levy will not be related directly to the cost of the nation's health care program. Insofar as they are directly related in the first instance, it will not be long before the nexus is broken. This is just another tax. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Robertson remain quiet and I suggest that the honourable member for Boothby remain quiet while I am speaking if he wants to hear the rest of this debate. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let us look at the cost recommendations in the Scotton-Deeble report. There is a recommendation that the levy should he 1.35 per cent of taxable income in the first year. In the second year the rate can be increased according to the relationship between the cost of the health care program and average weekly earnings. In addition to that, the maximum amount levied can he increased by multiplying the levy by average weekly earnings. At the moment the limit is $150. If average weekly earnings go up by $10 a week the levy limit goes up by $13.50 a year. If the levy is raised to 1.5 per cent because of the increased costs in a runaway cost program of health that delivers no greater quality health care - in fact, it will be a more inefficient scheme than that operating at the present time - the ceiling limit will rise not by $13.50 a year but by $31.50 a year. 
Yet the Minister constantly repeats, to reassure himself that he is right when he knows that he is .abusing the English language and abusing the facts and statistics, that it will cost less for the majority of the Australian people. It will not cost less. It will cost more. If we look at the White Paper that has 'been tabled today we find that in the Budget proposals pensioners are to have their pensions, irrespective of whether they are subject to the means test, subject to tax. The levy is to be imposed upon the basis of taxable income. If a person has a taxable income of $1,200 his contribution will be $16 a year. The Government does not tell us very much about whether that levy will be charged upon the tax-paying pensioner. We are simply told that it has been referred to a committee for investigation. But the last committee that investigated the question of the taxation of pension incomes put as one alternative recommendation the abolition of the age tax allowance. The consequence of that proposition as adopted by the Government is that many pensioners who today are in receipt of full pensions, and who are supplementing their income by working or are having it supplemented through superannuation payments, will find that the maximum amount they are entitled to earn or receive in that way without affecting their pension will be liable for tax. 
This report would lead one to believe that every pensioner who has income over and above his pension will be liable to a levy under the health insurance scheme. The only outlet there is this vague comment that it has been referred to an inter-departmental committee. If it has been referred to an inter-departmental committee, why can that and other matters not be referred to a select committee of this House so that we can examine the whole question of the philosophy behind the proposals of this scheme; so that we can demonstrate this Parliament's concern for the patient, for the patient's health and for the patient's personal relations; so that the patient does not simply become a punchcard in a Government computer which is the basis upon which the Scotton-Deeble report is founded. I urge the members of this House to support the proposal to have this matter investigated. If the House and honourable members are unwilling to support it, it is indicative of the fact that they are unwilling to debate the matter, that they have something to hide and something they wish to run away from because they know that the scheme they are about to introduce is bom out of their socialist philosophy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. Before I call the Minister for the Environment and Conservation I point out to the House that I will not allow this debate to become a shouting match from one side of the chamber to the other. This is an important debate and it should be conducted as such. I suggest that the honourable gentleman who is interjecting now take notice of me. I call the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
What are the ages of persons receiving unemployment benefits in each of the States. &lt;2) For what period or periods have these persons, who are currently receiving unemployment benefits, received such benefits during the period since 1 January 1973. 
Can he say how many persons receiving unemployment benefits are not interested in obtaining a job of any kind. 
In this debate I want to draw the attention of the Commit tee to waiting lists, not in relation to the present scheme under which they are at a minimum, but in relation to the scheme proposed by the Government inherent in which, in contrast with the present system, the only possible restraint upon over-use of medical services looks like being long waiting lists with those who are providing medical care directing the majority of their attention to minor ailments and not showing the required concern for .those whose medical needs are greatest. My concern this evening is to draw the attention of the Committee and of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr  Hayden) to waiting lists of old people who are seeking accommodation in modern, self-contained flats; of old people who need modern accommodation in hostels where the type of service provided takes account of their frailty and their declining ability to provide for themselves in all respects; of old people who need to go into modern, well-run nursing homes run by charitable and benevolent organisations on a non-profit basis where they can be provided with care and given the rehabilitation services to which many of them will respond. This is not the first occasion upon which I have raised this matter. I raise it tonight because the procrastination of the Minister in arriving at a decision is reaching scandal proportions. 
I refer particularly to an urgent need - a need which was urgent last month, was urgent the month before and was then drawn to the attention of the Minister- which today is as urgent as, if not more urgent than, it was then. That is the need to upgrade the amount of subsidy available to charitable and benevolent organisations willing and able to provide accommodation for the aged, whether they be sick or able to look after themselves in self-contained accommodation. In South Australia there are a number of these organisations who have done a marvellous job in providing adequate and proper accommodation for various classes of aged persons - the sick, the frail, and those who are well. The programs to these organisations are grinding to a halt as a consequence of the Minister's procrastination. 
In September I urged upon him the need to lift at least to $10,000 the ceiling limit in relation to which the $2 for $1 subsidy would be paid - a subsidy which he constantly refers to as being a $2 for $1 subsidy but which in fact is now less than $1 for $1. In September of this year in the Government publication called 'Shelter', in an article written by  Mr Neville  Brooke of the Melbourne organistion the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Minister's concern was reported upon. In that article the writer drew attention to the Minister's alarm at the proportion of funds provided by charitable organisations as their share of the cost of developing home units and which is generally raised from ingoing donations has gone from 35 per cent to 62 per cent. But it is raised not only from the contributions of the ingoing occupants. Much of this money is raised by residents already benefiting from this type of accommodation - people who collect paper, gather bottles, sew aprons, make jams and run fetes in order to raise the funds that will attract the subsidy. 
Only recently I attended the magnificent Lutheran homes in my electorate. I attended on this occasion to be present at a fund raising fete to which 300 or so residents made a magnificent contribution. They had been working for months, indeed years, in order that their organisation would have the funds with which it could build a nursing home and hostel to provide for those of the residents who become sick or frail and for others in the community who could benefit from that accommodation. The board of management of that organisation has recently called for tenders to build a 12'8-bed hostel and nursing home complex. The board is faced with a dilemma. A month ago, on 13 October, in Adelaide the Minister said that the question of the ceiling limit on this subsidy was under review. In September we were told that he was alarmed. There is no outcome of the review on 12 November - a month after the Minister made his statement in Adelaide that the review was taking place. The statement was made a month after the urgency of this matter was drawn to his attention. 
There is another organisation in Adelaide - a municipality - which would build selfcontained unit accommodation for the aged if it knew the outcome of the Minister's review. Until it knows, it is unable to indicate to those people who are in urgent need of accommodation the magnitude of the contribution that the municipality will require before it can proceed with its $500,000 project. The difference in contribution that could be made by an updating of the contribution level which was last set in January 1971 could be as high as $1,000 per occupant. How often do we hear the Minister say that his concern is for those people in need - for those people with limited means. Yet his failure to grapple with the problem of updating this subsidy limit does not give much credit to his argument that he is concerned for those who are in need. In fact, one wonders whether his procrastination is designed to destroy the purposes of the Aged Persons Homes Act, because he can protest that there is a $2 for $1 subsidy whilst on the other hand the ceiling limit remains and the whole scheme is strangled by the financial inability of the organisations building this type of accommodation to set their contributions at such a high level either that it means it is impossible for occupants to pay it or alternatively that it means it is impossible to raise the funds through fetes and similar fund raising activities. 
The position of the Lutheran homes is so serious that whilst they await the decision of the Minister as to whether he will update the ceiling limit - he has indicated that it is under review so they as resident trustees should not make a decision until the review is announced - on a Sim contract with building costs rising as they are rising today it is costing the Lutheran homes at least $12,000 a month in the rise - not fall - clause of a possible building contract. That $12,000 means one fewer nursing home available to the needy aged in the South Australian community. In fact, today it was drawn to my attention that a home in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has received a tender which indicates that, excluding the land cost, the cost in Adelaide and South Australia today of building a hostel unit is $9,300, the cost of building an independent living unit is $10,000 in addition to the land cost, and likewise the cost of providing a nursing home bed is $10,000. Yet the maximum that will be subsidised is $7,800. How can the aged be provided for by organisations with the facilities, the know-how and the capacity to build this accommodation when the Aged Persons Homes Act is being topedoed by procrastination as a result of the failure of the Minister to treat as urgent the updating of the subsidy limit, to put it at a realistic level so that it is restored to a $2 for $1 subsidy instead of something less than that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory,  upon  notice: 
Did his immediate predecessor say, in a statement on A.C.T. Government housing on 31 January 1973, that examination of housing finance discloses that rental operations had been carried out at a loss. 
If so, is he prepared to make available the financial information which led to his predecessor making this statement; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Have the salaries of members of the Commonwealth Police Force been raised to the level of salaries paid to members of the A.C.T. Police Force. 
Did the Attorney-General promise that this would be done. 
Have certain members of the Commonwealth Police Force been notified of reductions in their salaries. 
If so, what are the reasons for these reductions. 
If salaries have been reduced, are the salaries paid to those members of the Commonwealth Police Force who have suffered a reduction equal to the salaries paid to members of the A.C.T. Police Force. 
Mir Enderby - The Attorney-General has furnished the following reply: 
The salaries of members of the Commonwealth Police Force were raised to a comparable level with the salaries paid to members of the A.C.T. Police 
Force, due regard being paid to the different bases for determining the salaries of the two Forces, the difference in the organisation patterns and the responsibilities involved. Since this adjustment was effected, the salaries of members of the A.C.T. Police Force have been increased and I have directed that the salaries of members of the Commonwealth Police Force be again reviewed. 
Yes. 
No - there has been no reduction in the salary of any member of the Commonwealth Police Force. 
See the answer to (3). 
See the answer to (3). 
Treasury Publications: Quarterly Comment on Investment Accounts  (Question No. 1194) 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to add to the Bill now being debated a series of riders. The Opposition, whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, wants to express that the House is of the opinion that the provisions are in contravention of the Government's electoral undertakings not to increase taxes. We list a series of items about which we wish to express our concern. In the time available in this debate it is not possible for any one  speaker  to touch upon all the items to which the Opposition wishes to draw attention. This afternoon, however, I wish to deal with 3 of those items and they are those lettered (a) where we say that we are most unhappy because the Bill imposes unwarranted taxes on pensioners; (e) because it places inflexible rules on the sale of property which take no account of reasons unconnected with profit motives, such as illness or additional family responsibilities; and (g) because it places added cost burdens on Australia's wine and brandy producers, especially the smaller producers of wine grapes. 
First, I want to deal with those provisions of the Bill which impose unwarranted taxes on pensioners. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his colleagues during the election period gave an undertaking to the Australian electorate that their Party, if elected to office, would not raise taxation, would not increase the tax burden of any individual taxpayer. That undertaking has been broken on a number of occasions and is yet to be broken again in this Bill because of the manner in which age pensioners are being dealt with under the proposed legislation. Prior to the introduction of this Bill pensions paid to people eligible for them under the means test were exempt from tax. In addition pensioners or non-pensioners who qualified by age were entitled to have their tax assessed according to an age tax allowance. 
This allowance was originally introduced to take account of the fact that some in the community received tax-free age pensions, whilst others deprived because of the means test of eligibility for a pension received taxable income and under the ordinary rates scale were liable for taxation at rates which reduced their income below the income of someone in a similar position, except that they were on a pension in contrast to the person who was in receipt of an independent income. The age tax allowance, therefore, was brought in to introduce equity as between one group of aged persons in the community and another group of aged persons in the community. There is no doubt that its introduction created anomalies with regard to the aged when compared with those who did not qualify by age. But that is a different question and I shall in a few minutes direct the attention of the House to that question also. 
The effect of making pensions taxable is to impose a tax burden on many persons today whereas last year they were not liable for such tax. Insofar as that tax is imposed upon them today where it was not their responsibility last year, it is a breach of the Labor Party's election promise. No one can object to the concept of means-test-free pensions being made taxable, but it is very strange that those pensioners who this year are receiving means-tested pensions should be informed that they are to be liable for tax this year and yet next year they will have means-test-free pensions. The effect of the imposition of tax upon their incomes will work a considerable hardship. Many of them - on the Treasurer's estimates, 20 per cent of pensioners - will become liable to lodge tax returns and a high proportion of that 20 per cent will become liable to pay tax - and to pay tax at rates higher than were chargeable under the old age tax allowance. 
I have drawn the attention of the House to the reason why the age tax allowance was originally introduced and I have underlined the fact that the way it operated caused a number of anomalies. But if the Government relied for its decision on the Coombs task force report - a report on which it has relied for many of its decisions - it seems harsh that it would now take the more severe of the 2 alternatives put forward by the task force. The task force said: 
One possibility would be immediate abolition of the allowance. Unless some 'no loss' provisions could be devised, however, that would mean that some aged persons would be made worse off by the amount of the tax. Rises in pensions already foreshadowed by the Government would offset the loss in some but not all cases. 
The rise in pensions may have offset the loss in money terms, but it has deprived that section of the community of income in real terms because it, too, is experiencing the difficulties of inflation. The way in which this age tax allowance abolition works means that a pensioner who has a non-pension income of $19 a week up to $44 a week is liable, under this legislation, to pay tax whereas under the previous Government's age tax allowance that person would have paid either no tax or considerably less tax than is imposed by this legislation. The medium to low income earners are being asked to pay the cost of the introduction of this new system of taxation for one or two years at the most, because at the expiration of the 2-year period if, and only if, the Government carries out another promise which it made - that is, to abolish the means test - that test is abolished, those pensioners will be in receipt of means test free pensions, and the new system of taxation will work in a fairer way. 
There is another aspect of the new tax system to which I wish to draw the attention of the House. It is the introduction of a rebate system. One might wonder whether the system is a precursor of other proposals yet to be introduced into the House. If it is, it has inherent in it many serious implications. The rebate which is allowed to certain aged persons - I underline 'certain aged persons' - is $156 off their total tax, assessed at normal rates. When that $156 is deducted, the balance of tax is paid up to a certain limit, and only up to a certain limit, because once the limit of a taxable income of $3,224 is reached the rebate begins to phase out. The effect of the phasing out is that the rebate is reduced at the rate of 25c in $1. The tax concession is reduced by 25c for each $1 of income over and above $3224 a year or $60-odd a week. That reduction in the rebate must be added to the marginal rate of tax charged at that level of income, and the marginal rate of tax over phased out incomes varies from 24.4c to 25.6c in $1. So aged persons who are in the income range of $3224 to $3847 pay a marginal rate of tax of nearly 50c in $1, a rate of tax payable by taxpayers whose taxable income is $12,000 a year. If it is not a crazy system of taxation to impose on low income earners a marginal rate of tax as high as that paid by those in much higher income brackets, I do not know what is. 
The taxation system is in need of total review. This is not the first occasion on which I have spoken in the House on this matter. I have spoken on this question both from this side of the House and from the other side of the House. The tax system, as it bears upon the young family man, is in grave and urgent need of reform. Last year the lowest income on which tax was paid, or the threshhold of tax, was lifted so that no one with an income under $1,120 a year paid tax. There, too, we see a crazy system of phase - in whereby people whose income is above the threshhold, or on the lowest incomes which bear any tax liability, pay tax at a rate of 66c in $1 until the concessions which were granted to them are phased out, and then their rate is reduced to 14c, 15c or 16c in $1. At the general level, at the threshhold for the young family or the young income earner, we have this absurdly high rate of marginal tax payable which is destroying all incentive to work to gain an income above that level. By virtue of the introduction of the rebate system there is an equally crazy system of tax whereby people who pay a very high rate are on relatively low incomes. 
I turn now to the provision which makes taxable profits on the sale of certain assets within 12 months. I express my concern at the inflexibility of the provision. There can be no argument that if someone buys an asset for the purpose of re-sale the profits on that sale should be taxable. There can be no disputing that it is sometimes difficult to tell a person's intention. Therefore it is necessary for legislatures to say on occasions: 'We will assume that it was a profit making purchase if the second sale which returns the profit takes place within 12 months of the original sale or first purchase'. To place an imposition on those who sell a house merely on the ground of changed employment is a totally inadequate reason. Think of the young family which comes to Australia from overseas and which wants to buy a house in its new country. I am glad that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  is present. I hope that he will take note of the point which I am making. How many migrants has he heard of who have bought houses in the excitement of the first arrival, obtained a job, then found that they are a long way from their place of employment and have wanted to sell their house to buy another? Because of an inflationary real estate market they make a profit. This Government will prevent that young family improving its situation in its new country by preventing it from buying a house in a community closer to the place of work. This Government will tax the young family for the 'profit' which it makes on the sale. Likewise, where a young couple buys a block of land with the intention of building a house, then lets out the plans to a builder, gets a price, finds that the price is too high, and chooses within 12 months to sell the block of land and buy a ready built house, if they make a profit on the land they are taxed on that profit when it is really the transfer of one asset in the form of a block of land into another asset in the form of a block of land on which there is a ready built house. 
There are other cases in cities such as my home city of Adelaide where one person could change a job and, seeking the benefit of this provision of the Income Tax Act, could claim that the profit made on the sale of his house should not be taxable. His next door neighbour could have been working at the same place all the time and could have been travelling a long distance, say from Tea Tree Gully in my electorate to the Chrysler factory in a southern Adelaide suburb. He could decide to move closer to the Chrysler factory. He has not changed his employment. His next door neighbour has. Because one was working somewhere else before moving to Chrysler he pays no tax on the profit he makes in merely transferring his limited savings from one house to another. The other is unable to take the full capital gain with him. I am sure that the Government will find that there is absurd inflexibility in that proposal in the Bill. 
The third matter to which I wish to draw the attention of the House relates to the changed tax provision for the assessment of stocks held by the wine industry. I draw to the attention of the House headlines which appeared in Adelaide's newspapers late last week. In the 'News' of Friday huge 2 inch headlines said: 'Dishonoured: Dunstan Hits Out In Wine Row.' Saturday morning's Advertiser' said: 'PM Dishonoured Promise on Wine, says Dunstan.' I have a copy of a letter which came into my hands during the election campaign showing that the Premier of South Australia, claiming to be the  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party Federal Election Finance Committee, wrote to members of the wine industry asking them to forward donations upon the basis that they would send that money to the Labor Party on hearing that the Prime Minister had given an unequivocal assurance during the election campaign that any government led by him would abolish the excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition. At the time I called the Premier of South Australia a law broker and a man who was prepared to go out into the electorate and seek contributions to election funds in exchange for legislation. That law broker is screaming today. In fact I think that law broker is running out of the country. He is quickly going overseas before this Parliament can embarrass him any further because his undertakings given at the request and on the instructions of the Prime Minister have been broken. 
This legislation will cause irreparable harm in an industry which has been enabled to build itself up and do a great deal not only within Australia but also outside Australia. The industry is being asked to pay a restrospective tax. It is being called upon to pay tax on stocks that were taken into account years ago. By virtue of that the wine industry will have very severe cash and liquidity problems. The Government needs to look at the situation. I hear of the sort of promise that the South Australian Premier tried to make on account of his Prime Minister's promising legislation in exchange for money. I hear of Caucus reversing the Labor Government's decision on the gold industry. I wonder how much bad gold was provided to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for .the Labor Party's funds in order to gain that decision. The Labor Government needs to look at this sort of legislation objectively and to assess the harm that it is doing to an industry that has served and is serving this country well. It needs also to examine the merits of introducing retrospective legislation which will drive many small wine and brandy producers out of business. 
I urge the Government to look at the situation and to consider amending the legislation in a manner which will not have a retrospective effect even if it wishes to change the legislation for its future effect. I also draw the attention of the House to the dangerous implications of the change not merely to the wine industry but to every other industry where stocks are valued at considerably less than their market value. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that he has received a report from a committee reviewing grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act? Does the report recommend that grants must be increased from $5,200 to an amount in excess of $7,000 per person accommodated to restore the subsidy to a $2 for $1 level in respect of land and building costs at current prices? Should organisations with projects in an advanced stage of planning delay signing contracts pending the decision on the new grants so as to benefit from the increased grants, or should they sign contracts under existing subsidy arrangements so as not to be prejudiced further by escalating building costs which in some areas are rising at the rate of 14 per cent per annum? Will the Minister remove doubts and stop speculation that it is his intention to torpedo a scheme which, so far as church, charitable and benevolent organisations are concerned- 
As we are debating a whole series of amendments, I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  the desirability of considering, when future legislation is brought in on this matter, an amendment to cover the point that I raised in the general debate to provide that 'a payment or advance to a State under this Act shall not be made in respect of expenditure for the purpose of acquiring land, unless that land is acquired on just terms, including suitable adjustment for inflation.' Without developing that argument again, the reference to adjustment for inflation is proposed so that the acquisition laws of the States should provide that the land owner should not lose the real value of his asset as a consequence of the declining value in the currency due to inflation. It is not intended to give the land owner inflated compensation as a consequence of the urban development brought about by government decision. 
I turn to the other amendment which I ask the Minister to consider. I know that he will wish to leave this matter to the decision of the Else-Mitchell Committee, but I hold views in advance of the determination of that inquiry. I would like to see in this legislation provision that any land acquired under it when developed for residential use shall be made available for sale on a freehold basis. I recognise that today under freehold systems of title, there are many restrictions - and proper restrictions - on the manner in which the land can be used. But I think that there are many advantages that a freehold title has, such as giving to the home owner a sense of security, that are not attributed to the form of tenure that is commonly described as leasehold. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
We are debating 4 Bills and much time has been devoted to that aspect of those Biills which relates to the regional growth centre proposed for Albury-Wodonga. The Albury-Wodonga concept is only part of the total program which the Oppoosition is supporting. The program involves the development and establishment or a corporation to create AlburyWodonga as a growth centre. It involves also the provision of finance for the establishment of other growth centres. It involves the provision of finance, though for one year only, to land commissions. In the area of urban development, using that in its broadest concept, there have been in recent years exciting developments. 
It is unfortunate if too much credit is sought by any particular political Party because the improved development in urban areas and urban thinking is a result of changes in community attitudes. As we have overcome other difficulties so the attention of the Australian people has been directed to the importance of the urban environment. For years we have lived on the myths of our early reading of the characteristics of small towns but the psychology of the small town life is now becoming part of history for the great majority of Australians. The life we live is a life in complex large urban areas. The problems that confront these large urban areas are quite different to the problems that confront small centres. The solution to those problems must necessarily be different to the solutions that would apply to problems encountered in small towns. 
As the community has become aware so have all those involved in the political process in this country become deeply conscious of the concern of the average Australian for the improvement of the urban environment. This has meant that we have directed our attention to both the improvement of the existing urban environment and the more rapid establishment of new urban areas. There was a time when as a people we accepted the fact that when we bought our first home it might be on the outskirts of a large city and it might be located in an area where public facilities and services were lacking. But, as our affluence has grown so too, as with so many of the consumer durables that we have come to regard as essential whereas 2 generations ago they were a luxury, have we come to expect the development of urban areas into which we move for our first home to be of a high standard. And that is quite rightly so. As a result of this emerging consciousness by the Australian people as to the importance of urban development we have seen increasing attention paid to the policies of governments - national, State and local - in ensuring that the environment is developed in an orderly fashion. 
The concepts that are involved in these Bills, as I have pointed out, have been developed over a long period under governments of all political persuasions both here in Canberra and in the States. We are reaching a stage where there is a much deeper public consciousness of the importance of paying attention to policies relating to urban development. We are recognising that there is a need in the large cities not merely for the provision of roads, kerbs, drains, water reticulation and electricity, but also for the provision of adequate open space, recreation areas and recreation facilities. This is a good thing because the type of life that we are able to live in these large urban areas where people are highly mobile is being progressively improved. But it is important that in all of these policies we should ensure that the maximum amount of freedom of choice is left in the hands of the individual citizen. 
It is equally important that there should be a maximum amount of community involvement. I hope, as a result of the expressions contained in the various speeches made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  about the Government's desire to involve the community in some of the decision making that affects them, that the comments express a real concern and do not merely pay lip service to an aspirations of the people. When we look at urban areas we tend to apply a small town psychology to community involvement. I direct the attention of the House to the importance of recognising that we are dealing with large cities and that what we formerly described as a community based rigidly on geographical boundaries may not necessarily apply today. There has been a manifestation of the community's desire to be involved in urban development, by the expansion of resident action groups and council action groups. I believe that it is important that this community desire to participate should receive the response of government so that people can play a real part in the decision making process on the type of environment in which they live. 
Having made those general remarks, I wish to draw the attention of the House to a number of points. I express my concern at the way in which this legislation could possibly be used. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  drew the attention of the House to some of these points earlier today. Were it not for the fact that the legislation involves grants for one year only, that we are able to see the manner of its operation and that there will be an opportunity of examining this legislation in closer detail in another place, it could well be that we would have been seeking the inclusion in the legislation of specific guarantees to allay the concerns that have already been expressed and to which I shall now direct the attention of the House. The first point I want to deal with relates to the question of acquisition and the compensation paid to the owners of land that is acquired. The second point relates to the question of tenure. Under the Australian Constitution, if this Parliament wishes to acquire land it is obliged to make compensation available on just terms. There is nothing in this legislation which requires that the States to whom the money is to be granted are themselves to acquire the land on just terms. I hope that the Minister, in laying down conditions, will make it a condition of the grants that acquisition legislation used to acquire land with this money should match the standards set by the Constitution for Commonwealth acquisition of land and that the States be required to acquire on just terms. 
From my researches so far it appears that most of the States have legislation that would match that test, but there is one aspect of the matching of that test which causes me some concern. In a case that was decided before the High Court it was indicated that it was not necessary for a court to take account of the declining value of money in assessing compensation - the decline between the date of acquisition and the date of payment following a judgment in the court. There has been much debate in academic and other circles amongst people of all political persuasions concerned about stabilising land prices, as to the manner in which compensation should be assessed. Stabilisation of land prices differs substantially from what might be described as price control. 
I draw to the attention of the House a statement issued by the Ministerial Council Meeting of Land Commissions held in Melbourne on Monday, 22 October 1973. In that statement Ministers from Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development stated as follows: 
The distinction between control of land prices generally and land price stabilisation for growth centres or areas was recognised. The latter seeks only to preserve for the community, rather than for speculators and individuals, any increase in land values which arises from a Government's decision for the benefit of the community on growth centres or areas. 
Similar sentiments were expressed in the report issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It said that land price stabilisation legislation 'is aimed at ensuring that land does not inflate in value merely because it has been chosen for acquisition for urban development. Such inflation could make the land so costly that the States would be unable to continue with their plans to acquire the land and develop the area.' If one accepts that approach and says that the land owner should receive the value of the land as at the date of announcement that his land is to be acquired in order to guarantee that he receives just terms - 'just' in a real sense - I think it is important that account be taken of the fact that compensation paid 10 years from the date of the announcement may not necessarily be just terms compared with payment immediately after the announcement and at the time of actual acquisition. I am not suggesting for a moment that the land owner should gain as a result of any government decision that land shall be brought into urban use, but I point out to the Minister that there is a gradient between land in urban use and that now in rural use. I believe that it should be recognised when we look at compensation that, as a result of that gradient or hope value that has been placed upon certain land, the land owners under the gradient, yet not at the rural land price level, should receive just compensation. 
We hear a lot about the large speculator, but I draw to the attention of the House the fact that there are many small property owners and home owners whose homes will need to be acquired for the development of growth centres and land on the edges of existing cities. Account must be taken to ensure that the real value of their asset is preserved. The Institute of Urban Studies has put forward a land conversion value proposition. In its report it says that the conversion value would need to be carefully defined before inclusion in special legislation. I agree with this. It needs to be carefully defined. I believe there should be a guarantee within the legislation to ensure that just and fair terms are provided. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Minister and his Department have made general statements about this. They have talked about the value of land as compared with an inflation factor. They have talked about relating it to some form of price index. I express concern that a great amount of detail has not been put forward as to how the real value of a person's assets will be preserved to ensure that he is not disadvantaged, while not advantaged, at the expense of the community as a consequence of government announcement. 
The other matter to which I should like to refer but have not the time because of the limitations upon this debate, is that I too would stress the importance of retaining freehold tenure for residential urban land. I should like to have seen this guarantee included in the legislation so that it was mandatory on State land commissions when they come to sell their land to sell it under terms of freehold tenure so that there could be no fear that the home owner could sustain a loss by confiscation as a result virtually of forfeiture consequent upon his breach of some minor covenant in the lease. I think these matters can await examination in another place or can be included subsequently in legislation to make grants available in future years. I urge the Minister to look at the question of the provision of adequate compensation as if the constitutional requirement were there for the provision of just terms and a recognition of the importance of providing an increase in value to take account of the declining value of money notwithstanding an earlier decision of the High Court taken under different conditions and at a different time. 
I rise to take part in this debate because I wish to direct the House's attention to one particular aspect of the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said: 
The principal Act provides for payment of interest on compensation for compulsory acquisitions at 3 per cent per annum for periods up to 2 years and thereafter at 4.3 per cent per annum. These rates have remained unchanged since 1935 and are quite unrealistic and must be changed. The rates should be more in keeping with the market in order to do justice to dispossessed owners. 
I would agree with the sentiment expressed by the Minister that there is an urgent and long overdue need to update the amount of interest payable to people whose land was acquired and to whom the compensation was not paid for some time following the acquisition. That it was not done previously does not lessen in any way the urgency for attention to this matter now. In fact it rather increases it, and I think it is a good thing that the legislation is being altered in this way. 
I put to the House that I do not think, in view of the changed circumstances, the Minister has gone far enough, and I want to ask him to review again the concept of interest paid on compensation, to look into the question to see the extent to which the interest paid is in fact part of the compensation. Under the principal Act the Commonwealth can acquire land for a variety of purposes. It can acquire land in the States because it needs it for one of the purposes of the Australian Government, one of its departments, or in the exercise of the powers that are conferred upon it under the Constitution. It can acquire land in the Territories because there it has plenary powers, or it can acquire land on behalf of Commonwealth Government authorities. 
So far as the acquisition of land in the States is concerned, the Commonwealth is bound under the Constitution to exercise those powers of acquisition in accordance with section 51 placitum (xxxi) of the Constitution. That placitum requires the Commonwealth in the acquisition of property to acquire it on just terms from any State or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws. It has been held by the courts of the land, and in particular by the High Court of Australia, that in general terms the existing legislation relating to the acquisition of land complies with that requirement. In fact there was a case before the court in which it was held that in the circumstances then under review it was not obligatory upon the court to take account of changing values of money. 
I draw to the attention of the House the fact that circumstances have changed considerably since then and today a practice is developing whereby governments, both Australian and State and local government authorities, do their forward planning in a way which indicates to the public and to the landowners the long term intention to acquire land. Sometimes the procedures are commenced. Sometimes the value placed on the land is determined by the date of announcement of intention to acquire rather than the institution of the acquisition proceedings. Rut whatever procedure is adopted, because of this forward planning which is in the interests of the community, it sometimes means that a landowner, a large landowner or a small landowner, can find his investment in that land locked in to a price set at an early historic date with the acquisition money attracting compensation at a mean level of interest. The rate of interest that has been paid and is paid under the present legislation is, in my submission, mean. I do not believe that the proposal before the House can be described as generous, particularly in those cases where the compensation is locked in over a long period of time. The interest on the compensation now proposed to be paid is as mean as it was under the previous legislation. The reason for this is that in an inflationary economy where the value of money is declining rapidly, to lock the landowner's investment into a claim for compensation and for that money to be locked in for two, three, four, five or six years is to work an injustice on the landowner. 
I am not talking, as I said earlier, about the lives of the landowners only. I am concerned about the citizen who, in good faith, buys a house in a street in a residential area and who finds that suddenly, due to the changed development in surrounding areas, formerly quiet street becomes a main thoroughfare and a government authority then decides that the street should be widened. Announcements are then made that the land will be acquired or that portion of the land will be acquired. The land owner is inhibited in respect of what he can do with the land because, of the notice of acquisition or the commencement of acquisition proceedings. lt is not unknown for authorities sometimes to adopt a rather cheese-paring and mean approach to the compensation that they offer. The small landowner is then in a position of having to decide whether to take a low offer of compensation now or to fight it out in the hope that he will achieve justice under the constitutioncompensation on just terms - only to find that the loss in real value in the compensation that is then paid to him more than outweighs the gain that he might have made in getting a higher compensation. This hardship operates particularly as a consequence of the earlier High Court decision which, in the circumstances of the particular case before the High Court, indicated that the legislation did not require of the assessing body the inclusion in any determination of compensation a figure to take account of inflation within the economy. 
I think there are several ways in which this problem can be overcome. One method which is adopted by some of the States is to give to the landowner immediately upon announcement of intention to acquire or the commencement of acquisition proceedings the right to calf on the acquiring authority to pay up to 80 per cent of its offer price without prejudice to the landowner's right to negotiate or to appeal to the courts for determination of the compensation value of the land. As a consequence of that procedure the loss suffered by the landowner due to the inflationary pressures on the currency is limited to 20 per cent of the land value plus any addition that he is able to achieve by satisfying the court that the original offer was at an unfairly low level. 
The other alternative is for the Government to adopt the sort of formula which is now being advanced in relation to the operation of land commissions, -where in determining the value of land the date on which the land is to be acquired is fixed and it is stated that no value is to be added as a consequence of the Government decision to develop an area for urban use or for any other use. In this way the landowner does not get windfall gains. No one can argue the proposition that the landowner should not get windfall gains. But he should not because of delays, procrastination and meanness of approach on the part of the acquiring authority then suffer by virtue of the fact that the proper value offered at the time the land was to be valued under the legislation was not paid for a long period of time. The way in which it is proposed by many to overcome this difficulty is to have an inflation factor added to the compensation. 
In view of the many statements by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  on this matter I express my surprise that this concept has not been introduced into this legislation because there is a tendency for acquisitions to take longer, for the process of negotiation and the process of formal acquisitions through the issue of proceedings where negotiations cannot reach a conclusion to take much longer. Yet all that the Minister for Services and Property can propose is a clause which gives to the deprived landowner interest at the short term bond rate if the acquisition proceedings take three years or the long term bond rate if they take three or more years. Even in this proposal there is room for manipulation. Governments can anticipate movements in the bond rate. For example, a government could have anticipated that it was going to lift the bond rate, as it did on the last issue of bonds. It could have saved itself money at the expense of a dispossessed landowner by serving notice of intention to acquire a month or so before the increase in the bond rate. The rate that would then apply to that particular acquisition would be the rate applicable in the immediately preceding long term bond issue. 
So I would urge upon the Minister that he and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development get together and try to determine what is to be their policy with regard to preserving the real value of the interest of the owner whose land is to be acquired. All I ask is that the acquisitions be on the basis of the criteria within the Constitution and that in placing acquisitions upon that criteria account be taken for the time dimension. Payment in 5 -years time for land valued at today's date is not compensation in just terms. If an inflation factor is to be added, let that inflation factor be a real and genuine one. 
I am concerned that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development does not seem to be terribly clear as to the formula that he would use. Sometimes he talks of an inflation factor and gives to members of this Parliament the impression that his concern is to preserve the real value against the broad yardstick of inflation across the whole economy. Then he will suddenly talk about fixing land price in terms of rural land values. If you are acquiring rural land today and fixing the rural land price it is probably fair to say that the rural land price is the appropriate price. But is it fair then to lock the owner's investment into the rural land investment when it is known by all that there is no area in the economy which fluctuates more as a consequence of conditions outside Australia's control than rural land prices? It would seem to me that it is unreasonable for the small farmlet owner on the perimeter of a city to have his investment locked in for a period of 10 years to rural land values which can fluctuate upwards and downwards in accordance with world commodity prices and have no regard to the general level of inflation. I am not urging that the small farmlet owner be paid anything more than just terms. He should not gain from the windfall of the development of his land or the land around that land. But he should not have his investment locked in to Government bonds at an historically low rate of interest any more than he should have his investment locked in to rural land prices when it may be his wish, knowing that the land is to be acquired, to take his money out and invest it in some other way or spend it on some other item. 
I would urge the Minister to look into the first alternative to which I referred- that is to enable those who are given notice of an intention to acquire or actual notice of acquisition to have the right to take out a substantial proportion of the value of the land as assessed by the Government or the acquiring authority. It could be argued by the Minister that this affects only Commonwealth Territories and land acquired by the Commonwealth for Commonwealth departmental purposes. But next Saturday the Government will ask the people to confer upon the Australian Government wide powers over prices. If one listens to the speeches of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and notes his concern - which is shared by all - regarding the escalation of urban land prices one can see that that Minister would use the prices power to confer upon the Australian Parliament power to acquire land in the States. He has spoken of an Australian lands commission and, with power over prices and positing the legislation upon the basis that land would be acquired for the purpose of stabilising land prices, we would suddenly find that this Commonwealth acquisition legislation would have a far wider effect upon the average citizen, the average householder and the average small allotment holder. Those people deserve to be paid compensation for their land on just terms. If the people are to be so mistaken in their view as to fall for the emotional argument and grant prices powers, and if those powers are to be used to stabilise land prices, those who own land which is acquired deserve justice under the Australian Constitution. It is an omission on the part of the Minister not to recognise the need to confer just terms when he seeks to bring in quite far-reaching amendments to the legislation. 
We talk a lot about the stabilisation of land prices. I represent an area in which people are very concerned to ensure that land prices are kept within the means of the average citizen. They want land not for land's sake; they want land because they want to be able to build their home on that land, or they want to be able to buy land on which a home is already erected. They are concerned to And that a government that professed to be a low-interest rate Government has become a high-interest rate Government, with the result that their mortgage payments have increased. They are concerned to find that they have a Government which talked about bridging the deposit gap but which then abolished the home savings .grants scheme which gave to the young prospective home owner the opportunity of bridging that deposit gap. They are concerned to find that the Government has taken away from prospective home owners the lax concession on the rates which they pay on allotment land they own, yet the Government confers that concession upon them after they have built a house. These people want assistance when they are trying to bridge the deposit gap in order to build a home. We talk about stabilisation of land prices on the one hand, yet on the other hand the Government is making the deposit gap yawn in front of prospective home owners. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. How does he reconcile the statement of the Treasurer that life offices and superannuation funds would be required to invest 10 per cent of their increased assets in Australian Industries Development Corporation securities with the diametrically opposite view of the Minister for Overseas Trade that he has no desire to use compulsion to force such investment? Will voluntary compulsion be achieved by the tax concessions now available to life offices and  superannuation funds being withdrawn unless funds are invested in the AIDC? 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
How many of the persons receiving unemployment benefit as at 3 March 1973 as detailed in his answer to question No. 1043 had been previously offered work by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
How many claimants for unemployment benefits were reported by the Commonwealth Employment Service to the Department of Social Security for refusing an offer of suitable employment between 1 January 1973 and 3 March 1973. 
What effect did such reports have on the determination by the Department of Social Security of the eligibility of such claimants for benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many persons who were undischarged bankrupts on 1 July 1972 were discharged from bankruptcy by operation of section 149 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1970 during the period  1  July 1972 to 30 June 1973. 
What periods of time elapsed between the dates from which bankrupts became entitled to a discharge under section 149 and the dates when their discharge upon bankruptcy was gazetted. 
How many persons discharged from bankruptcy by operation of law were awaiting gazettal of their discharge as at 30 June 1973 and how long had these people been waiting for the gazettal. 
Will the Minister ensure that discharges from bankruptcy by operation of section 149 are gazetted within one month of their occurrence. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in the 1971-72 Territorial Accounts for the Australian Capital Territory the income from payroll tax was understated by more than$1 million. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the current areas and values of acquisitions of land in the A.C.T., still unoccupied and unleased, including forests. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What was the last date on which a Commissioner for Housing loan was granted on a house with a sale price of more than $30,000. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many qualified dentists are employed by the Australian Government. 
What are their respective titles and responsibilities.  
asked the Prime Minister  upon notice: 
Was the Auditor-General asked to report on the A.C.T. Municipal or Territorial Accounts for 1971- 72; if so, what were his comments. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Are book prices charged in Australia to Australian book buyers higher as a result of monopoly pricing characteristics of the price-fixing policies of British publishers, 
Can he say whether (a) the bound edition of Elaine Morgan's 'The Descent of Woman' is available in Australia from Australian book-sellers at $8 per copy, (b) a paperback edition of the book published by British publishers, complying with Australian copyright laws, is available from booksellers in Noumea and Djakarta for $1 per copy and (c) the paperback edition of this book is currently available in Australia; if it is not available, why not? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">Will he provide a detailed dissection of the figures of salaries and administrative expenses in the Minicipal and Territorial Accounts for the A.C.T. for 1971-72 and, in doing so, will he indicate the number of employees involved, their salary levels, the office space utilised by them, maintenance and similar costs, printing and stationery costs , and provisions made for long service leave. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In relation to loan repayments, principal and interest, on water supply headworks in the 1971-72 Municipal Accounts, how was the value of assets of water supply headworks calculated. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he make a comprehensive statement detailing all the conditions related to granting of leases of blocks of land for residential purposes in the Australian Capital Territory, 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the full details of the conditions  which  must be met prior to the granting of  a  Commissioner for Housing loan in the A.C.T., including price  of  dwelling, previous home ownership, and family income of the applicant. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In view of (a) the complaints from residents of the A.C.T. about having their rates increased on the basis of unaudited Municipal Accounts and (b) the undertakings in the preceding two annual reports that the 1971-72 Municipal Accounts would be audited, will he consider having audited (i) the 1971-72 Municipal Accounts and Territorial Accounts and (ii) subsequent annual accounts of A.C.T. Municipal and Territorial revenues and expenditures. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have site works commenced for the construction of the health centre at Canberra's Civic Centre. &lt;2) If so, on what date is construciton due to be completed. 
Will medical services provided at the centre be free as at the Melba centre. 
Has each general practitioner in the area been offered a position at the health centre; if so, on what terms as to salary and conditions of service. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many Government homes were sold in the Australian Capital Territory during 1971-72. 
What was the average selling price. 
What was the profit on sales of Government homes in the same year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did his Department receive any reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service relating to claims for unemployment benefits from persons who had refused an offer of suitable employment. 
If so, how many such reports have been received since 1 January 1973. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
How many claims have been received for unemployment benefits since 1 January 1973. 
How many of those claims have been rejected. 
What are the principal reasons for the rejection of such claims. 
The Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill before the House is designed to establish an Australian Development Assistance Agency as a statutory body. I want to take up many of the points so constructively put to the House by my colleague, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech did little more than explain to the House the organisational structure proposed for the Agency. Its purpose, according to the Prime Minister, is to unify by absorbing the aid functions now carried out by several departments. No indication was given by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government in his second reading speech of the guidelines to be followed in the provision of Australia's aid to developing countries, although the Prime Minister did point out that it was his hope that the Agency would, amongst its functions, formulate aid policies which will take up the challenges of the future. 
I hope that the Agency takes up that challenge, but I express some concern. When I read the Bill I find that the advisory role of the Agency is to advise the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ministers have staffs and departments which can advise them. Ministers then make their decision on the outcome of the advice they receive. But if one sets up a separate agency one likes to think that that agency will have an independence, an objectivity and a capacity to report to the Parliament and to express its views on the new dimension in aid policies. I hope that the Agency when appointed, and the Advisory Board when established, will not be content merely to give advice on the limited range of topics upon which advice may be sought by the Minister for the time being. I hope that the Agency and the Board will take up the challenge of reviewing the whole broad spectrum of Australia's overseas aid to ensure that the countries that the Australian people seek to assist by the allocation, hopefully of increasing amounts of money in real terms, will achieve the maximum results from the money so spent. 
The Prime Minister has pointed out that it is the Government's intention continuously to raise the amount of aid granted until such time as official aid represents 0.7 per cent of the gross national product.- When this target is achieved, and as it is being achieved, our primary concern should be to ensure that the developing countries get the best value for the Australian aid dollar. In this regard I want to touch particularly in my remarks on the question of education aid. The Colombo Plan has been operating for more than 20 years. We have received into Australia many thousands of students from Asia, the Indian subcontinent and from the Pacific. The report of the Australian Universities Commission reads as follows: 
The provision of places in Australian universities for overseas students, both sponsored and private, has been a significant element of Australia's foreign aid program since the Second World War. In 1971 there were 6,199 overseas students studying at Australian universities. This is equivalent to the enrolment of a medium-sized university. 
The report goes on to say that most of the students came from the developing countries of Africa and Asia and will return to their own countries on completion of their courses. The question that 'I ask the House to consider, and I hope that the Agency will examine in great detail, is whether the direct and indirect allocation of resources to the provision of a medium-sized university here in Australia for Asian, African and Indian students is achieving the best value for the Australian aid dollar to the benefit to those countries. 1 believe that the time has come when we should be thinking of providing an Australian overseas university - the infrastructure of a university that could provide teaching facilities in the developing countries. That is not to say that receiving in Australia Asian students and students from other developing countries is not important for the development of those countries. It is not to say that it is not important for the development of Australian students by virtue of the experience they gain in rubbing shoulders as students with people from widely differing cultures. But that is a cost that should not be allocated against the aid provision by Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. When will construction of the standard gauge railway from South Australia to Alice Springs commence? What is the cause of the continued delay? Is there a dispute between him and  Mr Virgo,  the Minister for Transport in South Australia? Can the Minister allay fears that the Australian Government is proposing to defer the project for an indefinite period? 
When this debate was adjourned last night I was in the midst of some remarks directed in particular to Australia's development aid overseas in the field of education. The Bill that we are debating, as honourable members would be aware, is to establish the Australian Development Assistance Agency with responsibilities to administer the developoment assistance fund. Insofar as the Agency is to administer this fund, I hope that in the establishment of its organisation it will pay particular attention to the manner in which that portion of the aid to be provided under the heading of education is to be administered. If the concept of cooperative nation building on which the Colombo Plan was founded is to be fully realised, now is the time for Australia, through the means of this Agency, to make dramatic changes in its approaches to the plan. The essential needs of developing countries can be met not so much by project aid as by people aid. In this area I believe that our resources could be put to more effective use than they would be if we were to continue in the past pattern of the provision of that aid. 
Last night I drew the attention of the House to the fact that we provide in our Australian universities and institutes of higher learning the equivalent of a medium sized university. Whereas it is very effective and useful for Australian students to rub shoulders with students from overseas, and whereas the overseas students themselves benefit greatly from their experience in Australia - many illustrations of their contribution to their own countries can be drawn upon - I believe that the money we are putting into a medium sized university could produce a better result in the development of the underdeveloped countries if it were redirected. I would like to see Australia establish what, for shorthand purposes, I would describe as an Australian overseas university. I think rather than bring students to this country and provide teachers to teach them here, we would do more for the developing countries if we were to send an equivalent number of teachers to overseas developing countries to teach students in their own home countries. 
The method of achieving this could be by the Agency establishing a university campus in Australia with all the facilities of a conventional university. The essential difference would be that the overseas university would have few lecture rooms and no students resident in Australia. It would have the infrastructure of a university. It might have a small full time and permanent staff. The function of the permanent staff would be to enlist support, through secondment, of teachers and lecturers from the conventional universities. In doing so, the Agency, through an Australian overseas university, would need to liaise with the conventional universities so that lecturers and staff would not lose status or standing if they were to serve the world by taking up appointments in universities and institutes of learning in the developing countries. One can appreciate that from the point of view of university staff, this would be a matter of concern. But if it is a matter of concern we should tackle it and draw on the great reservoir of support that there is in this country, particularly in academic circles, for the provision of greater assistance to overseas countries. 
The Australian overseas university would assign either whole faculties or individual teachers seconded from our existing conventional universities under an aid program to teach in overseas countries for periods of 1, 2 or 3 years depending upon the circumstances. The staff sent overseas could receive vacational leave in Australia with additional time allocated for reporting, research and discussion. The university could thus become a nerve centre for Australia's overseas aid in the education field. It should be properly equipped to conduct regular seminars and seasonal schools for academic and non-academic people concerned with overseas aid. It should aim at co-ordinating and distributing information on aid requirements, highlighting areas of special need and building up a comprehensive picture of the whole region in which we are making an aid contribution. 
Initially, the faculties of an Australian overseas university should be those relevant to the immediate requirements of the developing countries. Chief among these would be medicine at the community medicine level, nursing, agricultural and veterinary science, engineering and economics. In all cases these faculties should be related to the circumstances of the developing countries rather than to the situa tion of a sophisticated developed country. Though it is important that there be a pool of educated people in the developing countries who understand the operations of a developed country, it is more important that the developing countries have technicians, educated academics and professional men understanding the environment in which they live and the development of which we wish to assist. 
While it is undoubtedly rewarding for overseas students to have tertiary education in Australia, the ultimate aim of our aid in the education field should be to expand the development in the developing countries. Unfortunately, too many of the overseas students who come to this country, who benefit themselves, then do not return to their countries to make the sort of contribution that the dollar of aid provided in Australia would make if the education support were given by us in the developing countries. We must ensure that developing countries get the maximum benefit from every dollar of Australian aid. In this respect, my sentiments echo those being expressed by many far more expert in the aid field than I. I draw attention to the remarks made by  Mr I.  B. Webb in a paper which he delivered some time last year. He reached the following conclusion: 
I consider that training Asians in Australia is generally of lesser aid value compared to the value to be gained from similar educational expenditure within Asia; 
Likewise, Robin Burns, a member of the staff of the La Trobe University expressed similar views as follows: 
In conclusion, there are sufficient grounds to call for a complete re-examination of our whole approach to overseas student programs. 
It is my hope that when it is established the aid agency will give serious consideration to the value that we are now receiving for our contribution in the area of education aid by concentrating on bringing overseas students to Australia. In putting this plea I do not want to be misunderstood. I do not want people to think that I do not believe there is some value in overseas students coming to Australia. I believe there is. But we have tended to concentrate on that method of providing education aid at a time when circumstances have changed and the needs of the developing countries have become more for education aid in their own countries. Their problems are, in the main, problems of rural economies. Their problems are problems in the area of community health and hygiene. 
They need education aid in this technical area for the teaching and training of agricultural extension workers and of community nurses and doctors to go out into the villages. So often some of the people who are trained in Australia either stay here or leave Australia and go to other developed countries or return to the urban centres of the underdeveloped world when the places to which they need to return are the rural areas of underdeveloped countries so that the standards of the poor can be raised, so that health facilities can be improved and so that the opportunities for education can be expanded. 
In this whole area of aid the amount of provision that Australia makes is necessarily small in world terms, but as we expand the proportion of our gross national product that we allocate towards aid it is important to ensure that we get the best value in terms of world development. When we come to look at value in terms of world development we must necessarily place our assessment in a time dimension. So often the world is faced with crises and disasters and we come to the aid of people afflicted by such crises and disasters. But that aid is a once only contribution. It alleviates in the short run but it does not really resolve the problems of the world in the long run. 
When we look at our aid I hope that we will concentrate on aid that has a long run content. We should concentrate more and more on providing education so that the scope and abilities of the people in the developing countries can be expanded. I would also urge that the agency have a look at the speed with which our aid applications are processed and, when processed, with which the aid is actually provided. I also hope that the Department of Foreign Affairs will be given a small fund of its own that can be used purely for political aid so that our general aid can be based on a broad assessment and not used to buy contacts, as aid is so often used. That aid is necessary in terms of developing our foreign relations, but it should not be categorised as world development aid. It should be categorised as part of the process of foreign relations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many, persons are in receipt of special benefits. 
How many of the recipients of special benefit have been resident in Australia for less than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 years. 
How many applications were received for special benefit during 1973. 
How many persons were granted special benefit during 1973. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Yesterday, the Minister stated that he was not prepared to back-date increased nursing home benefits so as to relieve patients of their accrued burden of debt for approved fees over and above their pension incomes. I ask: Will the Minister relieve patients of their worry about the future? Will he introduce legislation to provide index-related nursing home benefits so that increases can be made as from the date upon which wage and other nursing home cost rises cause increases in approved fees? Secondly, I ask: As this year's Budget will be introduced a month later than usual, will the payment of increased pensions be delayed a month or will pensions be increased, as in the past, on the first pension pay day in October? Will the increases be at the new$3 level set in April? 
At question time today I directed a question to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  concerning two points. The first referred to the possibility of index relating the benefits paid in respect of persons in nursing homes. The Minister evaded the issue. He gave no direct answer to that very great problem which confronts a large number of the elderly sick in our community, and the families who have a concern for their welfare. But tonight I do not wish to deal with that topic because in the time available it would not be possible to cover all aspects of that very serious situation. The relief which has been given thus far is only temporary, and the patients and those caring for them in nursing homes are faced with the prospect of going from one crisis, from which there has been temporary relief, to another crisis as escalation occurs in wages, nurses salaries and food prices. The second part of my question related to the matter of the urgently needed increase in pensions. If pension purchasing power is to be restored there is a very pressing need for a substantial pension increase. But this morning at question time the Minister for Social Security refused to answer that question. In fact, he failed to indicate the amount of the urgently needed pension increase. Also he refused to tell the pensioner population the date from which pension increases will be payable. 
When we talk of the pensioner population we direct our attention not only to the aged but also to the invalid and, possibly more importantly, to those pensioners who are widows and deserted wives who have dependent children and who are facing a most terrible problem in meeting the day to day costs of living. The Labor Government has announced that it will delay the presentation of this year's Budget. It will be brought in a month later than usual. It now looks as though pension increases will be delayed a month. It now seems clear that the Minister will refuse to back-date the pension increase to the usual day in October from which, in the past, pension increases have taken effect. Therefore, today pensioners are faced with a double doubt - when will they get a pension increase and by how much will the pension rise? Increases of SI. 50 a week promised in 1972 by Labor would, in 1974, be mean and miserly. Today $1 is needed to buy what could be purchased with less than 70c 18 months ago. Today the annual rate of increase in average weekly earnings and in the cost of living is so high that pensions must be raised in the next Budget by at least $3 a week and possibly substantially more if the real value of pension spending power is to be maintained. 
For those who are paying rent there is an urgent need for at least a 50 per cent increase in the supplementary assistance or rent allowance. If we look at the 1972 policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to which so many of his colleagues and supporters constantly refer, we find that he stated: 
The basic pension rate will no longer be tied to the financial and political considerations of annual Budgets. 
If that is so, why did not the Minister today tell us the date from which the pensions would be increased? Why did he not tell us the amount by which the pensions would be increased, drawing that amount from the relevant index because the Minister has promised to relate it to average weekly earnings? Yet, for so long as the Labor Government has been in office, every pension increase has been made in the context of financial and political considerations. If the Minister were genuine in his desire to take pension determination out of the political area, he would today have been able to stand up in this House and say to me: 'Yes, I can tell the honourable member for Sturt that pensions will be increased as from', and he would have given the date. He also could have said: 'Pensions will be increased by not less than', and he would have told us the minimum figure drawn from the relevant index by which pensions must be increased if the Government is to honour its promise that pensions will be index related and taken out of the arena of politics. But no.  His  answer was that it was a matter of policy, a matter of Government determination in the context of the Budget, a matter of politics, a matter related to financial considerations. How can the poor and the needy within our community, those who are dependent on incomes of 25 per cent, or less, of average weekly earnings continue to look to the future with any degree of certainty unless they are assured of the amount by which their incomes will be increased and the date from which those increases will take effect? The Prime Minister in the policy speech to which I have referred said that pensions would never be allowed to fall below the index related figure. Every day and every week that goes by, those pensions are falling in value. The amount of groceries, food and clothing that a pensioner can buy this week is more than he will be able to buy next week with the same pension upon which he is dependent. If this Government is genuine in its desire to take pensions out of politics it must immediately announce the date and the amount of the increase. 
This morning we are debating a matter of public importance - the attitude of the Labor Government to the accommodation and care of the aged in aged persons homes and nursing homes which is creating a crisis situation. To listen to the remarks of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  one would imagine that we were talking about finance, about Budget figures and the $ 1,452m provided. That is not our concern today. Our concern is people - aged people, sick people, the individual who needs hospital or nursing home care and secure accommodation. This Minister for insecurity is taking away from the aged people of the community the security they formerly had under a Liberal Party-Country Party Government. Aged people are living in fear that they will not be able to find the type of accommodation they need when they require it. We need only ask the people whose names arc on the lists of charitable and benevolent organisations which have previously been able to provide homes for the aged through subsidies under the Aged Persons Homes Act. Ask them how long people have to wait to get accommodation. Many of these organisations which had imaginative programs for providing more accommodation have put those programs on ice because of the policies and attitudes of this Minister and his Government. Putting the programs on ice means that the aged and the sick are left out in the cold. In the area of nursing home care we find the same attitude. The present position cannot be better described than it was in a letter to the editor that appeared in the Adelaide 'News' recently. In that letter the correspondent said: 
In view of Labor's incessant propaganda - 
I interpolate that we have had more of it this morning -  on its concern for the poor and sick,, it may surprise many that while largesse is being distributed to all and sundry (including well-paid workers) the financial treatment of pensioners in nursing homes is 8 fill both heartless and shocking. 
The public should realise that there are thousands of helpless old people who are simply being ignored as Ministers jostle for power while drawing government salaries of $34,000 a year. So much for the compassion under Labor. 
It is not tripe. Many aged people are in financial distress because of the inhumane policies of the present Government. The Government has failed to understand the financial pressures imposed upon the aged sick. The Minister talked about his desire to avoid economic discrimination.  His  policies over the last 18 months have been discriminatory against the aged sick. In January 1973 a very high proportion of the persons in nursing homes could afford the fees out of a pension and supplementary assistance income only. Since that time the situation has deteriorated very markedly to the point where aged sick people and their families in some instances have been paying as much as $60 to $100 a week over and above their pension income in order to have the type of accommodation that they deserve and require. 
The Minister talks of his policy speech delivered on 1 May. It is interesting to look at that speech because on 1 May he said that he regarded the question of examination of nursing home benefits as requiring urgent action. In fact he promised urgent action. But what is urgent action? Action on 1 May? Action in June? No. In fact in June he told representatives of the nursing home organisations that they could not expect any assistance for their patients, the sick aged, until the September Budget. It was only as a result of massive public pressure that action was taken. People, the sick aged and their families and those who understood the problem, spoke out and took action. They drew the attention of the Minister to facts that apparently he did not understand. He did not understand that his Government, through its inflationary policies, had brought about a situation where there were very few nursing home beds available for people who were dependent on their pension income only. 
He indicated on 1 May that in South Australia, for example, in order to right the situation it was necessary to increase the subsidy benefits by $1 3.20 a week. He gave the figures for other States also. But did he take action then? No. Did he take action in April? Oh, no. He said that there might be further increases in costs before the legislation could be introduced. Of course there are increases in costs. One has only to look at the politically determined increase in domestic salaries in the public hospitals in South Australia with the flow-on effect that it has had in the nursing home area - the consequential proper demand that it should be looked at with a view to increasing salaries of nurses in nursing homes - to find that over the last 18 months the wages bills in the nursing home area have increased at more than double the rate at which the normal cost of living has increased. 
Yet the Minister said in May: 'Oh, yes, 13.20 will be sufficient to enable pensioner patients to pay their nursing home fees.' Then the pressure built up. It was through public demand that action was taken. Anyone who has seen what has happened here has before his or her eyes a clear instance of how public demand, through the representatives of the people in this House, can force a wayward and neglectful government to take action to take care of people - the sick aged. As a result of public pressure the Minister announced earlier this month that the benefits would be increased. The increases he announced were in most instances double those which he foreshadowed in May. 
They are still not enough, as my colleague has pointed out. Such is the rate at which inflation is roaring in this community. The Minister said that the increases will be introduced from 1 August. But what about the additional fees that patients and their families are committed to pay in respect of the weeks leading up to 1 August? The Minister, in a mean and miserly fashion, refused our request that those benefits be backdated. It is absolute nonsense to say that this could not be achieved. The clerical difficulties have been grossly exaggerated by this mean and miserly Minister. Furthermore, he has demonstrated his insincerity by telling this House that these benefits could be increased by a change in a regulation. That regulation, if it can be made now, could have been made in May or in April. If the Minister was aware of this - apparently he was not so out of touch with the problem - why did he not announce in April that nursing home benefits would be increased? Furthermore, why does he not tell the sick aged today that nursing home benefits will be index related and increased in the future as the inevitable increases in wages and other costs come to bear through the nursing home industry. We are constantly reading in the Press that nursing homes are closing. This is depriving people of much needed accommodation. We constantly read from people concerned in this area that the benefits that have been granted are inadequate, too little and too late. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise because I wish at this stage in the debate to make a number of comments on the implications of the legislation before us. I support the legislation in that it is giving to the pensioners in the community an increase in their income. I do, however, express grave concern at the roaring rate of inflation which will result in the increase they are given today being of less value by the time the next pension increase is considered. But the aspect I want to deal with is on the taxation side. Last year in the Budget age pensions were made taxable. The old form of the age allowance was abolished and a new rebate system was introduced. Honourable members will recall that a heated debate took place about the implications of that rebate. In fact schedules were produced. Then all of a sudden, as a result of concern expressed in the community and by the Liberal and Country Parties, the Labor Government members awoke to the fact that many persons would be hurt by the imposition of taxation upon them when for years they had not been liable for tax or even to put in a tax return. So some significant alterations were made in the base level at which aged persons first became liable for tax and the number who benefited from the rebate of $156 out of the normal rate of tax. 
Now the month is July. It is the time when those who may be liable to lodge a tax return must look at their last year's income, determine whether they are liable to put in a tax return and make some assessment as to the extent to which they will have to pay tax to the Federal Government. My experience is that, as a result of the changed system of taxation, many hundreds or many thousands of aged persons are being greatly worried because of the complexity of the tax form, because of their obligation to fill it out, to put in their pension income, to put in their meagre investment income, interest from savings bank deposits, government bonds or some other form of investment on the nest egg they have put aside against the day of need. I point out by way of aside that the nest egg is rapidly losing value, and this fact in itself is causing the senior citizens in our community very grave concern. 
We have a combination of inflation and 2 Government announcements. One is by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stating that the rebate is to be progressively reduced and phased out, and the other is about raising pensions properly to an index level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, necessitating in days of roaring inflation a large increase of money that will buy considerably less than that same money would have bought some 2 years ago. But as a result of the marrying of the Crean decision to cut the tax rebates for the aged and the Hayden pension increase a large number of pensioners who have not paid tax for years will have a tax bill staring them in the face in this current year. In the 1973-74 year the rebate was $156. In the current year it is reduced to $130. So for a significant group of age pensioners that reduction immediately imposes upon them an additional liability of $30 a year in tax, quite apart from all the other increased expenditure they have to pay out of the increased pension that this Bill will provide for them. 
The Treasurer's decision to reduce the rebate for pensions from $156 to $130 will have a cruel effect on elderly people on fixed incomes and many who are in receipt of age pensions. It makes a mockery of the Government's phoney promises to increase pensions because it will cut a sizeable slice out of the increases that have just been granted. On my calculations, an age pensioner will not have to have savings of very great significance to receive an interest income in the current year that will make him liable for a tax bill which will erode the value of the $5 a week pension increase that the legislation which we are now debating will give to him. The effect of the reduction in the rebate is a sharp drop from $1,921 per annum to $1,746 per annum for the income level at which aged taxpayers first become liable for tax. If honourable members recall these figures they will see that $1,746 a year is not much in excess of a pension at the weekly rate of $31 and, if we add to the $31 that the pensioners will have from next week or the week after the absolutely essential increase in the pension that must be granted in the autumn of next year as a consequence of the impact of inflation on average weekly earnings during the forthcoming 6 months, we can see that pensioners with a pension income only will become liable for income tax and liable to fill out this huge and complicated form that I have in my hand and which frightens aged people. 
I had a pensioner come to my office only this week to fill out her form and she explained to me that she did not know whether it was correctly filled out. She said her eyesight was failing and she did not know whether next year she would be able to complete the form. This Minister and this Labor Government are calling upon every age pensioner in the community to fill out a tax return, unless action is taken in the Budget to lift the level at which pensioners as well as other people in the community first become liable to tax. If a pensioner has no income other than the pension the rate at which he will pay tax under the Crean formula will be approximately 15c in each additional $1 by which the pension is increased. Surely to goodness people whose only income is the pension are entitled to expect it to be clear of tax. It is ludicrous for the Government to get so tax crazy that its Treasurer invents a system whereby the Government pays pensions with the one hand and then extracts a tax on that pension with the other hand. The bureaucracy, the red tape and the reams of paper in this mad formula are typical by-products of a socialist system. Already far too many of the elderly people ari being worried by the need to lodge tax returns on what can only be described as small incomes. 
Part of the solution to the financial distress suffered by pensioners and all low income earners, particularly those with a family to support, is to make incomes on 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and below tax free. Some sanity should be introduced into the taxation system by beginning with commonsense relief at the bottom end of the tax scale. I hope that my remarks this evening have the effect of bringing sanity back to the deliberations that must go on in the weeks ahead as Government Ministers examine their Budget proposals. In doing so they will relieve the aged people of this community of the obligation the Treasurer has announced he will impose upon them - an obligation to lodge a tax return and pay tax out of a pension income that comes from the Government in the first place. Whilst the Government is doing this it should look at the whole structure of the tax scale at the bottom end so that those families with small incomes also have the benefit of paying no tax on an income which can only be described as meagre. If tax relief were given at this end of the scale much would be done to relieve the pressure on the low income family and others in the community to demand higher wages, which only continues the inflation spiral. 
I support the increases in pensions. I urge the Minister to announce the regular halfyearly dates on which pensions will be increased so that pensions can truly be taken out of the financial and political considerations of the annual Budget. I was surprised that the Minister told me last week that he did not know when pensions would be increased and yet this week the Treasurer announced the increases. I think a Minister who does not know in the middle of one week what is going to be done in the beginning of the next week should be called upon to explain why he cannot tell a representative of the people in this House what his intentions are about raising the pension, when he will link it to average weekly earnings, and give the people an assurance so that they will know when their purchasing power will be restored, thus taking pensions out of financial and political considerations. 
The National Health Bill (No. 2) now before us was introduced into the House late last night. Very few of us have had an opportunity to study carefully the import of the Bill. I see this legislation as yet another piece of the jigsaw designed to nationalise medicine and to deprive the people of Australia of the opportunity of paying for themselves for private care whether from a doctor or a hospital. This Bill deals with the two sides of the coin. The health benefit organisations were set up a number of years ago as mutual benefit organisations. People grouped together in order to pool their resources and to average the crippling financial risks and burdens that are imposed upon a family in the event of illness or accident striking and resulting in the need for high medical expenses or hospital care. 
Much of the debate this afternoon has dealt with the need to have some means whereby the contribution rate of the benefit organisations can be kept under review. The second reading speech delivered last night referred to this need. At a time when many areas of the economy are subject to investigation by the Prices Justification Tribunal and similar inquiries when charges in those areas are raised, it is not unnatural that other areas be looked at in a similar light, although in passing I might point out that it is strange that we have not heard of any legislative action which will result in an investigation of the circumstances in which Post Office rises are justified in order to keep the postal and telecommunications sections as viable organisations. We are given a figure and told that we must accept it, whether we like it or not. There is no independent tribunal, no independent investigation and no report subjected to public scrutiny. 
Here we are looking at the benefit organisations. We are asked to pass legislation which will enable the Minister to approve or disapprove or to amend applications made by these organisations to increase the level of contributions made by subscribers. Those contributions are the amounts that the funds charge their members in respect of the cover and protection that those members seek from the organisations. Insofar as this legislation will give to those organisations the opportunity to appeal - the ground of appeal in that regard is set out in the legislation - one can follow the logic of the proposal. The legislation provides that a benefit organisation seeking to increase its members' contributions can make a submission to the Minister for Social Security. If he rejects its application or sets an amount which that organisation regards as inadequate, the organisation can appeal. 
It can appeal to a judge to be appointed by the Attorney-General. The ground of appeal is limited in the case of a refusal to the claim that:  ... the refusal is likely to result in the moneys in the fund becoming less than the amounts reasonably required for the purposes of the fund, including the maintenance of adequate reserves. . . . 
If one assumes that such an investigation is objectively done, there is the danger, to which the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  drew attention, that through procrastination and delays a great financial burden could be imposed upon these mutual benefit organisations. But again, if one accepts that an independent tribunal will set a figure which, in the light of the circumstances, will enable the funds to carry on on the basis set out so that their reserves will not be run clown to the point where they become less than is reasonably necessary, one can understand the reasons for this legislation. 
The legislation goes further. This Bill seeks to add to section 73b of the principal Act by placing a power in the hands of the Minister to enable him to direct that variations be made in the rates of hospital fund benefits payable by organisations to all or any of the contributors. Under the present provisions an organisation is not subject by legislation to ministerial power in respect of the benefits that an organisation offers. The Minister has some wide general powers which he can exercise on the recommendation of the Registration Committee and which he can then impose upon an organisation. If any organisation disobeys, he can deregister it. Under this power he could direct a benefit organisation not to increase the benefit. Let us look at the implications of this. It has been occurring in the community already that young families, knowing that the wife is expecting a baby, book into a hospital and insure up to the total limit sufficient to cover the hospital bill. I know it occurred in respect of at least one couple in my electorate only last week. At the time they insured the benefit they would have received would have covered the whole bill. Because of increasing hospital charges that bill will now be of the order of $140 above the amount which the benefit organisation will pay. The benefit organisation has been unable to increase the benefits because it has been unable to negotiate sensible increases with the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
If we turn back to the now famous Green Paper, we find in it the Government's aversion to private insurance in respect of hospital and medical care. In fact, that report, though subsequently amended, stated that there was no place in the Labor scheme for private insurance of medical services. It said that there was a limited scope for private insurance in respect of hospital care for accommodation at a standard above the minimum provided for by the Hayden scheme. The point I want to draw to the attention of the House, and I invite the Minister to comment upon it, is that the power that he is taking by this Bill would give him the authority to prevent any organisation from increasing its benefits. In other words, it would leave the community uninsured; it would leave those who wish to insure for private hospital care, intermediate ward care or private ward care unable to pool their resources and draw from the insurance pool when the occasion arises for them to require hospital treatment. It is on this ground that I am opposed to the legislation. 1 think it is trying to do more than the Minister in his second reading speech purported to tell us. The effect of the legislation will be to enable the present Government to destroy the opportunity now available to Australian citizens to insure for a standard of medical and hospital care above that of the minimum standard provided by the Hayden scheme or any other scheme. 
I would like to see an amendment to clause 3 so that there is a proviso. The proviso I would suggest would read along these lines: 
Provided however that the Minister shall not cause such alterations to be made as would reduce the rates of hospital fund benefits subject to the benefits payable not exceeding the actual cost of the services covered. 
If we believe in private insurance above the benefits provided under any governmentbased scheme, there should not be provision in legislation which enables a Minister to prevent a private organisation from offering a policy that enables a person to insure for a benefit above the minimum standard. This legislation places that power in the Minister's hands. It is arrant nonsense to suggest that an organisation has a right to appeal against the Minister's rejection, because in these circumstances the grounds of appeal are totally inapplicable. It is nonsense to suggest, when an organisation asks for permission to increase the benefits it is offering to its contributors and there is a refusal from the Minister, that the ground of appeal can be related to the fact that the provision of those benefits will cause a run-down of the reserves and resources of the organisation. Of course it will. Of course increased benefits will cost the organisation more and may place it in the position of desiring to seek an increase in the rate of contribution. 
As I have said, I have no strong objection to the proposal that if there is to be an increase in the contribution that increase should be subjected to a scrutiny to see that actuarially it was doing what the hospital benefit organisation said it was doing, namely, providing it with sufficient resources to enable it to pay the increased benefits. But I am alarmed when I see in this Bill the inclusion of an additional power, an implied power, a condition precedent on the continued registration of an organisation, namely, a power to refuse an organisation's application to increase the benefits. The people in the community want to be able to go to the great charity-run private hospitals. If those hospitals cost the contributor more, the people want to be able to insure against the accounts that they will receive in respect of hospitalisation there. But, I suggest, this Bill is designed to take away that right, because there is no assurance that the policy that was outlined in the Green Paper will not now be adopted and that private insurance in the hospital and medical sphere will be prohibited altogether. We have only to look at reports by various committees sponsored by this Government and listen to the speeches of members of the Labor Party to understand that members of the Labor Party have an aversion to private insurance. 
I have a strong belief that people should be given the opportunity of free choice. If they want to insure to go to a private hospital or to attend a private doctor, they should be permitted to do so and there should be no legislation which enables a Minister to prevent Australian citizens from having that opportunity merely because he wants to force them into his nationalised health scheme. Over recent days we have heard the argument upon that - the decline in standards of care, the long waiting time and the great costs to the taxpayer of a scheme that is governmentsponsored in its totality and has no element of control over the quality of care that is provided; that does not give any opportunity of free choice to people who wish to have hospital accommodation or medical care of a standard better than that offered by the Government scheme 
It is for this reason that I am concerned about this legislation. It was hastily prepared in an emotional set of circumstances, a set of circumstances that need not have arisen. The Minister has known for weeks that hospital costs have risen, nurses' wages have increased, the cost of food has risen and the wages of hospital domestics have gone up dramatically in recent weeks. It is not unnatural that those, administering hospitals should be placed in the position where they have to increase the charges. The failure of this Government has been that it has refused to enable people to continue to insure themselves at a level which enables them, out of their insurance fund, to pay the total cost, of hospital and medical care. 
This Government has failed in 2 respects. It has failed to make a contribution out of taxpayer resources to benefit organisations to enable them to increase the benefits so that the benefits match the charges. But worse still, it has forbidden the organisations to increase the benefits out of the resources that they collect from their contributors - contributors who, in the main, wish to contribute in order that they can protect themselves against the high cost of medical and hospital care and at the same time preserve for themselves the right to choose whether they will go into a standard ward, an intermediate ward or a private ward, the right to choose whether they will have the hospital doctor or their own doctor, and the right to choose whether they will have a general practitioner attend them or a specialist. It is for this reason that I am concerned at this particular legislation and believe that consideration of it should be deferred until its full import can be properly analysed. I should like also to see substantial changes made to the appeal clause to enable the total questions at issue to be examined by the appeal tribunal and questions not to be limited merely to that which is referred to in the Bill - the question of whether or not reserves are being run down. I therefore express my opposition to this Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, I  wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In his election policy speech he said that the Labor Party's child care program reflected the recommendations of the Australian Prc-schools Committee, the Australian Social Welfare Commission and the Priorities Review Staff. What recommendations had the Prime Minister received from the Priorities Review Staff before he delivered his policy speech? Will he table the report in which they were contained? Were the recommendations consistent with those contained in the report of the Social Welfare Commission which advocated an expenditure of $130m in the 1974-75 year? Did he make a promise which he knew he would not keep? What information, trends or other reports have become available in the last 12 weeks which caused him to renege on his promise so that those who relied on it now post him as a $100m defaulter? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many permanent departures from Australia were therein 1973-74. 
-There is an aged care crisis in the community. There is an urgent need for something to be done in the aged care area. Many of the people in the community who are operating organisations concerned with care for the aged expected that in the Budget, there would be some recognition of their needs, but they were disappointed. It is true that the supplementary benefit in respect of nursing home care was increased on 1 August. But all that did was enable patients in nursing homes to afford the fees that then reflected the cost of operating those nursing homes. My concern today is for the patients. Those patients are going from one financial crisis to another because of the Government's failure to recognise in the Budget the need to announce that nursing home benefits should be index related. A study of the figures on nursing home fees since 1 August indicates quite clearly that, as a consequence of rising costs, fees are getting beyond the level that a pensioner can afford to pay for proper nursing home care. 
Whenever one hears that nursing home fees have risen it is very easy to think that those who are operating the homes are putting up the fees in order to make a substantial profit. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that nursing home fees are controlled. Nursing homes can raise their fees only if the increase is approved by the Department of Social Security. That Department has been examining many claims by nursing home operators- some private and some combined charity and benevolent organisations -to justify increased fees and it has granted the increases because the fact is that over recent months the costs of operating nursing homes have escalated at a rate far in excess of the consumer price index and there are still further increases in the pipeline. 
Many of the nursing homes run by charities and benevolent organisations were nearly bankrupt in July. Because of their plight, the Government took temporary action. But all it did was to release a tourniquet that had been tightening to strangulation point. The Government gave no indication of when nursing home fees would be again increased. Many nursing homes expected something to be done in the Budget. But if we look at the Budget we find that there is talk about deficit budgeting. If one studies the words and the papers attached to the Budget documents one will find that the Government expects to spend a mere $1.8m over and above the figure it anticipated spending on 1 August when nursing home benefits were increased to bring them to a realistic level. It is quite clear that the Government does not intend to increase nursing home benefits between now and August of next year. I challenge the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to deny that that is so. If he is able to deny that it is so, why did he not include in the Estimates contained in the Budget a provision for greater funding of nursing homes? The provision of a mere additional $1.8m in funds for nursing home care for the aged will go nowhere. The Minister has said that he wants to enable the charity and benevolent organisations which are operating nursing homes to provide greater facilities. It is not a question of their being able to provide greater facilities; the crisis is that they will not be able to provide the facilities that they now offer to many thousands of needy people. He speaks about deficit budgeting as though the non-profit organisations are the only nursing homes that provide for pensioner patients. The facts is that 80 per cent of all patients in nursing homes are pensioners. 
The former Liberal-Country Party Government set in motion machinery that was designed to update nursing home benefits so that a patient with a pension income could not only afford reasonable accommodation but be left with some spending money equivalent to one-quarter of the standard rate pension plus supplementary assistance. What has this Government done? It has reduced the amount of spending money available to the pensioner from what it should be today-from $8.75 to $4. That $4 is now insufficient to cover the costs of the large number of nursing homes that are forced, because of wage claims, to charge fees in excess of what is commonly regarded as the standard fee- a fee calculated by adding the nursing home benefit and the proportion of pension income supposedly allocated to the cost of nursing home care. 
The figures show quite clearly that since 1 August a large number of nursing homes have sought fee increases and have been granted them. To imagine that they are the only fee increases that will be granted between now and next August is to bury one 's head in the sand. It is clear therefore that the Minister is showing a lack of care for the financial wellbeing of the aged. I am constantly telephoned by people in great distress. As a result of the fact that people cannot afford the cost of adequate care in nursing homes many are driven into unlicensed boarding houses where they pay their pensions for poor accommodation, inadequate food and inadequate medical care. In the meantime the nursing homes, whether they be privately run or charity run, are endeavouring to keep their heads above water financially. Many of these organisations which hope to expand the facilities that they can offer to the community and to offer accommodation and care to the people now in the second grade boarding houses are not willing to go ahead with their building programs. They are unwilling to take the financial gamble of being forced into a situation of near bankruptcy. 
Today many of these organisations are confronted with the knowledge that further wage increases are in the pipeline. For example, in South Australia under a recently negotiated award for domestic staff the domestic staff are to be paid an additional $4.15. Applications for an additional week's leave for certain nursing staff are before the court. A new sister's award is to be handed down. Inflation in other cost areas is rapidly forcing up prices. I urge the Minister in the interests of the patients and in the interests of humanity to announce that he will index relate the benefits so that they can be increased automatically as approval is given for fees to rise. If the fee rises are approved those fees are justified by the evidence and the Minister should be able to announce that additional benefits are available to meet them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! the honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many qualified medical practitioners applied to migrate to Australia during 1973-74. 
2 ) How many of these applications have been approved. 
How many of the approved applicants have arrived in Australia. 
From which countries have the applicants come. 
In which countries were the applicants born. 
-The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  who has just resumed his seat, has identified a problem, but he has failed miserably to draw the attention of this House to the cause of the problem. The cause of the problem is inflationdomestic inflation caused by the socialist Labor Government of Australia. The honourable member talked loosely and glibly about international inflation. But Australia is one country which is in the strongest position to insulate itself from the rigours, stresses and strains of international inflation. Yet this socialist Government has failed to identify the causes of the problem in this country and in fact has fuelled the fires of inflation and stagflation. 
I want to join with my colleague the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  in identifying the problem of inflation and stagflation not only as it affects the governments of this country but as it affects the average man and woman. The honourable member for Holt said that people are making profits out of the difficulties of those who cannot afford to retain their homes. In many cases these people have to sell their homes. But why are so many people in such a difficult position? The Labor Party promised during its 1972 election campaign to reduce interest rates from 7 per cent or  6Vi  per cent to a lower figure. What has happened? Under the management of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is sitting at the table, the interest rate on ordinary building society or savings bank housing loans has escalated, doubled and risen to between 1 1 per cent and 12 per cent. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Boothby points out, it is supposed to be a low interest Party. The increase in the rate of interest has forced every family buying a home to look at their budgets and to ask themselves whether they can afford to continue to pay for their home. In many instances people are faced with the tragic decision of having to sell their homes. But when they seek to sell their homes they find that, because of the credit squeeze which the Government itself has confessed it induced, the buyer either is unable to obtain a loan or if he can obtain a loan he is not able to afford the repayments. As a consequence the person wishing to sell the home has to discount his selling price and sell at a deflated figure. This is a problem that is faced by many young Australian families. I hope that the time will come in the not too distant future when both young and old families who are buying homes will be able to feel confident that they will be able to continue to meet the obligations of that purchase. I refer not only to the obligation of repaying the principal and interest but also to the obligation of meeting the rates and taxes that are payable on a house. 
Rates and taxes have been dramatically increased in my electorate due to the inflated land values brought about by this Government's economic mismanagement. I receive letters day after day from people who have worked hard to buy or build a home. I had a letter the other day from a man whose income is just over $100 a week and who with his wife worked and struggled to build their dream home. In the last 12 months the interest commitment on their loan has risen as a consequence of interest rates being nearly doubled. In the last few weeks he has received notices for the payment of rates and taxes- water rates, council rates and land taxeswhich have taken his commitment to over $600 a year. He is a man who built his dream home- the home that was to be his castle, that was to give him security. Now he must ask himself whether he can afford to continue to retain that home into which he and his wife and family put so much effort. 
This Government has brought about his distress. This Government is the Government that caused the increase in interest rates. It is this Government that has caused an inflation rate that has brought about the necessity for local government councils to increase their rates or to increase valuations. It is this Government that has taken away from the home owner the concession of deducting total payments of municipal rates and taxes from his taxable income, so that he is now being hit in all directions. The man's wife, when she goes to the local supermarket to buy the week-end food, looks at the prices and finds that they too are rising. In this morning's newspaper we see that a loaf of bread is now to cost 41c and that the price has risen over a very short period by 10c. I forecast that under the economic policies of this Government and the Budget, which was so ill conceived, a loaf of bread costing 41c today will within 12 months cost 55c. Whilst this Government remains in office, the cost of living and the consumer price index will continue to rise. I find support for that forecast in an assessment of a group in the Institute of Labour Studies at Flinders University. In a recent publication the Institute stated: 
Thus the likely train of events in the immediate term is towards a period of 'stagflation' combining a stagnation in the growth of output (and an increase in unemployment to 150,000-170,000) with a rise in the price level of at least 15 per cent in 1974 - 
But we know that for the current quarter the rise in the cost of living is running at an annual rate of 20 per cent and there will almost certainly be a rise of 20 per cent in the cost of living in the financial year 1974-75. The Institute further stated: 
What the inflation rate will reach in the longer term during 1975 will depend in large measure on the course of wage settlements in the next 6 months or so, especially for large groups currently seeking to reopen their awards. 
Yet the Government claims that it has a policy. We also read in this morning's Press that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  thinks that before the end of the year a package of economic measures will be introduced. That is a confession that the Government has introduced no economic measures designed to reduce inflation and to prevent rapid escalation in unemployment. The Premier of South Australia, when imposing vicious tax measures on petrol and other items, gave as his reason for the need to increase those taxes the direct and deliberate refusal of the Commonwealth Govt to accept a co-ordinated policy to contain inflation. A Labor Premier made that statement. He is the Premier of as State whose policies this Labor Government in Canberra has so often praised. This Labor Government is being condemned yet again by the Premier of South Australia for its lack of policies and its inability to deal with the economic crisis that faces this country. My concern is for every family in the country which is facing the prospect of rapidly rising costs of living and a high risk of increasing unemployment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Deputy Prime Minister Is the Australian Industry Development Corporation getting ready for a $20m debenture issue? Is it a fact that there will be no government guarantee of these debentures? If AIDC loses money through backing unsuccessful ventures and so cannot meet its obligations, will the Government abandon AIDC and welsh on its obligations to all those people who subscribe to its debentures? 
-The Committee is dealing this afternoon with a cognate debate on the estimates of 3 departments, amongst them being the Department of Social Security. We have just heard the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  trying to contend that the position of the pensioner has been vastly improved by the measures taken by the Labor Government. The Labor Party promised pensioners that the pension would be increased to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That promise was made at a time when the inflation rate was between 4 per cent and 5 per cent per annum. Against that background, the promise of a pension of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings represented a significant increase on what had been paid in the past. There was no doubt about that. 
I, for one, am a member who has wished to see the pension related to an index. But my concern has been to see that that pension is related to an index that is meaningful. The average weekly earnings index loses its sense of relationship in a period of rapid escalation in earning levels and escalating prices because the point at which average weekly earnings are identified for the purpose of fixing a pension precedes by some months the time at which the pension increase is made. The pension increase is then made and on that new level the pension remains fixed for a period of a full 6 months. In the meantime, average weekly earnings, if they are rising at the rate at which they are increasing today, have gone considerably above the level on which the determination of the pension level was fixed. So, today we have a situation in which the pension received, although claimed by the Government to be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, is not in fact 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The higher the rate of inflation, the lower that relationship becomes. We on this side of the Committee can establish by irrefutable fact that the level of pension is approximately 20 per cent of average weekly earnings, and 20 per cent only, and not, as promised to the pensioners, 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
In this estimates debate I wish to touch on two or three topics which can be described as being of the nature of subjects to be dealt with in this type of debate. The first one I wish to raise affects the widows pension. There is need for better communication between department and pensioner in order that the pensioner may know where she stands. I speak with some knowledge of the need to communicate with the recipients of pensions. When previously a member of this Parliament, this same question came under my notice. I prepared a pension guide in a form that was understandable by the average pensioner because it related entitlements to weekly income and not to annual income. It expressed the answer that the pensioner wanted, namely, his weekly or fortnightly entitlement. I am pleased that that form of guide was adopted by the Department and it is still being used in informing members of the public of their entitlements. 
But today the area in which the widow is confused is the point at which her entitlement is affected by the means test. The second point at which she is confused is the point at which her entitlement to fringe benefits- principally medical benefits- is lost. The Department informs widow pensioners that their earning period dates from a certain date and will expire on a date 12 months later and if their income in that 12-month period gets above a certain level they must report that change. But that does not give them the information they want. So many widows with dependent children are today seeking part-time employment and the information they want is how much they can earn in a week without affecting their pension and how much they can earn in a week without disentitling them and their children to fringe benefits. Because of the way the legislation is framed, the Department is required to supply that information in a formal way which is difficult to understand. 
I urge the Minister, the Government and the Department to look at the procedures to see whether they can introduce a method whereby widows who receive earned income can be notified regularly the weekly level of income they can earn without affecting their pension, assuming their assets remain constant, and the weekly level of income they can earn without affecting their entitlement to fringe benefits, again assuming their assets remain constant. I believe a change of that type would be very beneficial to the widow pensioners with dependent children. This problem increases day by day because the widows pension is subject to a means test and the floor levels at which that means test comes into operation are arbitrary monetary levels that are not being, and have not been, adjusted according to the inflationary rise in general incomes. Therefore, the means test on a widow's pension is becoming tighter and tighter. She is less able to increase in real terms the benefit to her children by earning. 
My second plea to the Government is for it to have a look at the threshhold level at which the impact of the means test bears upon the pension of a widow with dependent children and lift it in accordance with some index so that a widow can maintain her position in real terms. In fact, it is my belief that the means test in relation to the widows pension, where that pension is paid to a widow with dependent children, should be abolished altogether and, if it cannot be abolished altogether, at least it should be abolished in relation to the widow's earned income so that she can, as so many widows do today, seek part-time employment in order to improve the real position of her family. Constantly one is approached by widows saying: 'My employer has said my wages are going up. Will it affect my entitlement to fringe benefits and the health insurance cover that flows on from those fringe benefits or will it affect my entitlement to a pension at all?' I urge the Government to look at this aspect of the operation of the means test in so far as it relates to the widow with dependent children. 
The next point to which I wish to draw the attention of the Committee, and through the Committee the Government, is the question of nursing home benefits. All honourable members are aware that in the last few weeks the Government has again indicated that it will increase nursing home benefits. Looking at the Budget papers, I find it strange that the Government was not able to estimate how much it would need to spend on these benefits. According to the Budget papers the Government said it would need to spend $1 12m. Apparently that estimate has now been raised to $ 161m, even though the announced increases of last week or the week before are going to cost only $8. 5m. It is absurd nonsense for the Minister to suggest that it is not possible for a responsible government to index nursing home benefits. The standard of operation of a nursing home is set by governments and thenfees are fixed by governments. To say that fees are being lifted for reasons other than that costs are rising, wages are going up and food prices are escalating is to suggest that the fee fixing tribunals are loading in an excessive amount of profit. I urge the Minister to again review this question of index relating to nursing home benefits. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications for (a) visitors' visas and (b) permission to migrate to Australia have been (i) received from and (ii) approved for persons resident in (A) Fiji, (B) India, (C) Indonesia, (D) Malaysia, (E) Pakistan, (F) the Philippines and (G) Singapore during each month from 1 January to 30 June 1974. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration will recall that, when, recently, he opened the annual conference of the South Australian Good Neighbour Council he stated that the Government had now imposed quotas on migrant source countries. Can the Minister inform die House in percentage and numerical terms of the distribution of the overall migrant quota among the countries from which we have received migrants in the past? What percentage of the total migrant quota will come from countries such as the United Kingdom and Italy? 
-The legislation that we are considering this evening is legislation that has developed over a number of years. The germ of the idea inherent in the 3 Bills now under discussion was first identified many years ago when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office. When the scheme known as the Aged Persons Homes Scheme was first introduced the crying need in the community was to provide self-contained units for aged people. It is useful for us to look at the purpose of the legislation because it is still there and it has remained there unamended. The purpose of the Act is to encourage and to assist in the provision of suitable homes for aged persons, and in particular homes in which aged persons may reside in conditions approaching as nearly as possible normal domestic life, and in the case of married people with proper regard to the companionship of husband and wife. 
When the scheme was first introduced it got under way slowly and then it captured the imagination of many charitable, religious and benevolent organisations which could see here that people in need could be assisted if those organisations organised themselves to take advantage of the capital funds that were available from the Government. So the scheme was expanded to a point where it provides accommodation for over 50,000 senior citizens. But in the process of this expansion, as the needs of those who required self-contained accommodation began to be met, other needs rose in priority. Do not we so often find that something which seems urgent today tends to obliterate some underlying need which in later time as we relieve the first pressure then assumes equal proportions. So the LiberalCountry Party Government identified the need for an expansion of hostel units, an expansion of nursing home accommodation and the Aged Persons Homes Act was therefore amended to incorporate those provisions. The Act was also added to so that the personal care subsidy could be paid to organisations providing hostel care. This enabled these organisations to provide conditions for which patients or residents could afford to pay if they had only a pension on which to live. 
In addition, of course, the previous Government introduced and expanded the concept of nursing home benefits, the domiciliary nursing care benefit, the delivered meal subsidy and introduced the Aged Persons Hostels Act separate and apart from the Aged Persons Homes Act. All of these initiatives were taken by a LiberalCountry Party Government. What we now find is that the present Labor Government is claiming a lot of credit for the idea of a scheme, the foundations of which were laid before it came to office. We welcome the legislation now before the House, but we welcome it only after a period of time has elapsed during which this imaginative scheme was nearly strangled by the failure of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to exercise his administrative authority to lift certain limits, which I will describe in a moment, to realistic levels. 
But before I come to that, I would like to touch on a point that the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  raised, namely the question of the personal care subsidy. The legislation before us is designed to increase the personal care subsidy from $12 to $15. The honourable member talked about an age limit as if some great importance was attached to that. He talked about abolition of the age limit making the benefit available to all persons who qualified according to criteria established by the Department of Social Security. When the age limit of 80 years applied it was estimated that 41 per cent of patients in hostels were in receipt of the personal care subsidy. There were wild estimates as to how a reduction in the age limit would increase the percentage of patients receiving this benefit. It was suggested that the percentage would go up to 67 per cent of the residents of hostels. If one looks at the report of the Director of Social Security one finds that a number of residents in hostels who receive this benefit has risen to only 54 per cent. One is therefore left in a quandary as to whether or not the criteria that are being set are too tight. I raise this issue to urge that the Minister and his Department have a look to ensure that the criteria are not too tight and that people who should be receiving the benefit are in fact given it. 
It is becoming increasingly important- and much of what the honourable member for Perth had to say underlined this point- that detailed statistics and information as to the needs of the aged in the community be sought. There was a time when it was thought that for each independent living unit built under the Aged Persons Homes Act there should be one hostel unit and one nursing home bed. It is quite clear from the experience of the established organisations approved under the Aged Persons Homes Act that the arbitrary allocation of priorities does not represent the facts of the situation. I think there is a need for a broad and wide-ranging investigation into the needs of aged persons. 
As I mentioned at the outset of my remarks this evening, the Aged Persons Homes Act began to identify a problem, a problem of recognition that there was a need for assistance in a wide and comprehensive area. I would therefore urge that such an investigation be set in train so that when we come to allocate funds we are able to identify the order of priorities according to what people want and not what people in authority think they want. I would also raise the point touched on by the honourable member for Perth in regard to the existing anomaly in the domiciliary nursing care benefit. It is quite unreasonable to retain the limit at 65 years of age. I have to my own knowledge come across 2 cases in which an aged person is caring for a sick wife who happens to be aged 60. She is not eligible for the benefit. But if the ages had been reversed the family would have been entitled to the benefit. It seems to me- and I urge that this be done- that the age limit should be reduced to comply with pensionable age and that the benefit should also be expanded so that it is available at least to those sick persons who are being cared for by another person who is himself or herself in receipt of an age pension. I would now like to turn to the building and provision of accommodation for the aged under the Aged Persons Homes Act. There has been a tragic decline in the building program under this Act. The number of units built under the Act declined in 1973-74 by 572. That means that over 600 senior citizens who today could be in this type of accommodation are deprived of it. Why is this the position? When the Labor Government came to office it found that the annual review of subsidy benefits available under the Aged Persons Homes Act was due. In fact, the benefits had last been examined in January 1972. In the past the subsidy benefits had always been adjusted to take account of building costs and changes in the price of land. But the Minister said that he would examine the matter. He told us this very early in 1972. He continued with that process of examination and whenever asked about it indicated that he was still awaiting the report. 
Then in November 1973 he received a report and as at that date his own committee of inquiry recommended that the subsidy limits should be increased substantially. The committee recommended that the subsidy for a single unit should be increased to $6,000 from $5,200 with the provision of a new benefit to take account of the cost of land. Similar increases were urged for double units. But in spite of the publication of that report and in spite of the fact that by the report's recommendations becoming known, raising the expectations not only of those organisations providing accommodation for the aged but also of the many hundreds of thousands of applicants who were waiting for the various organisations to say that they were going ahead with their building programs, this Minister did nothing. He did nothing until April of this year. Even then he only lifted the subsidy in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee that he had asked to investigate the matter. In ordinary circumstances, one would say that that was a good thing, that is, the Minister accepted the recommendations of his Committee. But when a Committee is asked to recommend what subsidy should be made available for an item that is increasing in cost all the time, it is reasonable to expect that the recommended figure would apply to a particular date. I searched this report and I could not find in it anywhere a suggestion that the recommended increases would be the appropriate increases as at April 1974. 
The way I read the report is that these recommended increases were appropriate as at the time the report was delivered. So in spite of the rapid escalation of building costs- as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in South Australia in the last 12 relevant months building costs increased by 39 per cent- the effect of the delay by the Minister in announcing the increase in the subsidy was that when it eventually was granted it was all taken up by the increased prices that had occurred since the Committee made its recommendations. Now the Minister announces that by administrative action he will increase the subsidy benefit again. But the amount by which he is increasing the subsidy benefit is not great. Many organisations feel that they will get just one set of programs on the way and then, as has happened in the past, they Will have to put the next lot into the bottom drawer until the Minister again sees that the whole scheme is grinding to a halt. This requirement to increase the subsidy benefits is a result of the pressures that build up and the way in which the building program declines. 
The Minister makes a big song and dance about the fact that the rate of subsidy is to be changed from a two to one basis to a one to one basis. He tries to create the impression that this increase represents a doubling of assistance available. I want to dispell that illusion. It is the sort of illusion that we have come to expect this Government to endeavour to create. The history of the Aged Persons Homes Act is that when it was originally introduced a one for one subsidy was announced. The Government indicated that it would pay 50 per cent of the capital costs, within certain limits. Then the subsidy was increased to a two to one basis or 66 per cent of the cost. Now, under the proposed legislation, it is to be increased to a four to one basis or 80 per cent of the cost. So the increased proportion of the total cost that the Federal Government will pay arising out of the proposed legislation now under discussion is a mere 14 per cent or, if we relate it to the increase in the Government's actual contribution, an actual increase of about 20 per cent. It is not so generous a movement as the Government endeavours to have us believe. 
However, the increase in the rate of subsidy will not result in the building of one additional home unit or flat or provide one additional hostel or nursing home bed unless the increasing number of other conditions which must be satisfied are realistic. It needs to be understood that the four to one subsidy is not payable on whatever the cost of the unit may be. There is an upper limit placed on the amount of subsidy available in respect of each unit of accommodation provided. If this limit is fixed without a sensitive regard for current costs of building, it may very easily come about that the subsidy is no greater than a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy. Let me illustrate my point: By the Minister making no increase in the subsidy when the Labor Government came to office and by not approving that increase for at least 16 months during a period of most rapid increases in building costs, the actual contribution provided by the Government declined from a two to one subsidy to a one for one subsidy. While the subsidy limit is still kept at an intolerably low level, the pretence that it is a four to one subsidy is a delusion. It is a delusion for yet a second reason- that those organisations building accommodation will need to provide so much more over and above the $1 for $4 and will still be providing $1 for $1. Such damage was done to the overall scheme by the Minister's course of action, that repair work on the part of the Government has now become necessary. The lift in the rate of subsidy is an empty gesture unless the maximum subsidy limit is constantly raised in response to building costs. 
There is yet another limitation that the Minister and his Department place upon the organisations which seek to build accommodation under this scheme. They set an unacceptable upper cost limit. By setting a limit that is totally unrealistic they can bring the whole program to a halt or, alternatively, force a lowering of building standards. They are bringing about this reduction in building standards in 2 ways: Firstly, they are refusing to lift the benefits or the upper limit cost under which the subsidy becomes available and, secondly, they are also now beginning to set standards of accommodation. Originally when the scheme was first introduced there were no inflexible standards about what accommodation should be provided. Indeed, at that time the concern of the Department was to ensure that an adequate, proper and minimum standard was reached and that there was no reduction in the standards that could be expected. Let me remind the House that when these organisations build these homes they are there to last for a number of years. Therefore, their standard should be at a level which will adequately provide proper accommodation in the future. 
But now we find suggestions coming from the Department that a single unit built under the Aged Persons Homes Act is not to have more than 4 squares and that a double unit is not to be of more than 5 squares. I am told by many organisations operating in this field that they believe that in the mid-1970s any standard of accommodation of less than 6 squares, whether it be for single person accommodation or for a married couple, is a standard which is too low taking into accounts aU the needs of today and those of tomorrow. As for the suggestion that I have heard that hostel units should be built on the basis that the area provided should be 2 squares rather than 2 or 3 squares, I ask: Who wants to live in a little box? The senior citizens who move into tiny little boxes could well suffer from a mental as well as a physical shock as a consequence of their confinement in accommodation that is provided in hostels which have buildings of a standard that are intolerably low. I would therefore urge the Minister not to lower the standards but rather to seek ways and means whereby the standard of accommodation provided under the Aged Persons Homes Act can be substantially increased so that those units which we are building today do not have to be rejected 5 or 10 years from now because of the shortsighted policy of trying to restrict the standards of accommodation that we provide for people who deserve something better. 
-Following the May election of this year the Government decided to abolish the Department of Immigration. At that time there was a great deal of criticism of that decision. That criticism still persists. The criticism came from many quarters, but it was not only from the political opponents of the Government. Severe criticism also came from some people whom the Government claims to be among its friends. For example, a good friend of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Mr Evasio  Costanzo wrote in 'La Fiamma' that Labor had killed immigration. Shortly after the decision was announced the Prime Minister gave a number of speeches and we had an opportunity to speak on the question. He tried to justify the decision and to prove that the dismemberment of the Department of Immigration was not a process of killing Australia's immigration program. 
If we look at events that have occurred since we find that the immigration tap as it is sometimes described has been turned off. In October the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in a Press statement that he could not responsibly approve the entry of migrants who were likely to experience difficulty in finding and holding employment and who would be competing with Australians and migrants already here in the tight sections of the labour market. He said then that it would be necessary to impose restrictions but that these restrictions would not affect people who had already been approved for entry. But he then said there would be a significant reduction in the approval rate. I call upon the Minister to tell us what the approval rate is, for in telling us that the number of approvals would be considerably reduced the Minister has left the whole question very vague. In fact, in a recent speech that he gave in Adelaide in a throw away remark he announced to the nation that a quota system had been imposed. Honourable members will recall that last week I asked the Minister to inform members of this House of the quotas that had been imposed. He did not deny that quotas had been imposed; he simply said that he did not have all the detailed facts in his head and therefore he could not tell the House of the quotas that had been imposed. It was a side stepping answer, for what I was seeking was a general indication of the Government's policy and the distribution of the quotas as amongst the migrant source countries. 
In abolishing the Department of Immigration it is clear that the Australian Labor Party, despite its earlier protests, believes that migrants should be treated as cannon fodder for industry. 
-It is not utter rubbish. If one looks at the statement to which I referred previously, issued by the Minister for Labour and Immigration on 2 October, one will see that he said that it would be damaging and he would be acting contrary to the Australian Labor Party's platform if he were to bring migrants here at this time when we cannot ensure that they will find long term employment. That was his only concern. One might look at the wording of his statement and analyse it. He talked about not finding long term employment. That was a confession that he forsees into the future, into the long term, that Australia faces very serious unemployment problems. If he could see that they were short term problems that would face prospective migrants, why did he not say so? But no, he described the problems as long term ones and then announced that he had turned off the migration tap, so much so that he has informed the people that no more nominations for permission to migrate will be accepted. 
The decision to turn off the tap is really a decision either to close down the immigration scheme altogether or it is a guise to introduce quotas. The consequence of this will be to convert a net migration gain that Australia has experienced over the last  2  decades into a net migration loss. In 1973, 43,430 people left Australia permanently. How many have already left in 1974? Will departures exceed arrivals? Let us have the facts. The Minister should give us the facts. From where are the limited numbers of migrants who are now being admitted to come? With an admitted 250,000 applications for migration in hand, what are the qoutas from each of the source countries? What are the quotas now? What will the quotas be when the immigration tap is turned on, if it is to be turned on by this Government, when conditions change? How many migrants will the Minister let in from the United Kingdom over the next 12 months? Will many be allowed in from Italy? What are the qoutas for Pakistan, Malaysia and the Philippines? 
If a quota system has been established the Australian people are entitled to have not only the details in terms of numbers but also the policy justification and the exact composition of the migrant quota mix. This is a concern not only of the migrants and the people here in Australia but also of those many thousands of people whose aspirations were raised by this Government in the belief that they could find a new home here in Australia. We merely have to look at the figures which the Minister himself supplied to me in answer to a question on notice to observe that in the first 6 months of this year more than 13,000 people living in India sought to come to Australia, more than 36,500 people living in the Philippines applied to migrate, and the numbers for other countries are significant. As a result of turning off the migration tap all those people from those countries and other migrant source countries face frustration and disappointment. Their hopes and expectations, created and raised by this Labor Government's policy statements 12 or 18 months ago, have been dashed. 
In the remaining few minutes available I should like to turn to another matter. The Labor Party 's handling of migration affairs has resulted in a scandalous delay in the processing of applications for citizenship. Since May this year very few settlers who have applied for citizenship in South Australia have been granted it. Why? It appears that from the time the Labor Government decided to dismantle the Department of Immigration it could not decide which department would be responsible for citizenship. Was it to be the Department of Labor or was it to be the Department of Foreign Affairs? After a period of uncertainty, a period of ministerial wrangling, the responsibility for citizenship was left with that section of the old Department of Immigration which had been transferred to the Department of Labor. Six months have now elapsed since the May elections, yet new certificates of citizenship are still not available. With no certificates available, except for use in emergency cases, a backlog of 3,500 applications has built up. Some of these applicants have been prejudiced by the delay. Many more are becoming concerned that their attainment of Australian citizenship has been so long postponed. 
How can those who want Australian citizenship so that they can travel overseas on Australian passports be sure that if they use their United Kingdom passports they will be allowed to return to Australia? 
It is of no good merely saying that they will have no difficulty. For example, it is an open secret that discussions are being held between Australia and New Zealand on the introduction of visa arrangements. How will Australian settlers holding United Kingdom passports who travel to New Zealand be sure that they can return to Australia after they have done all that they can to obtain Australian citizenship but through departmental bungling, printing bungling and ministerial mismanagement they are not able to obtain the citizenship they desire? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Last week the Prime Minister announced new tax reductions, but said that they would not be reflected in pay as you earn deductions until the first pay day after 1 January next year. The Prime Minister would be aware that industry shuts down for the Christmas and annual leave period in the third week in December. WD1 he agree to grant to taxpayers a Christmas tax deduction bonus by authorising pay as you earn deductions to be made at reduced rates for holiday pay packets even though they are paid before 1 January? 
-Every Bill that comes before this House is deserving of careful consideration, but none more so than a Bill designed to amend our electoral laws. Each of the proposals contained in such a Bill must be examined to see whether they are designed to strengthen our democracy or merely to strengthen the position of the Party in office. Criticisms of the proposals in this Bill should be constructive, not destructive. In discussing the method of voting proposed under this Bill, I wish to put forward alternative proposals. In reviewing the electoral law we should strive to achieve a voting system which will do most for the elector, not one that gives to any political party a political advantage against the interests of the electors as a whole. 
The method of voting I advocate must not only be more accurate in the reflection of people's wishes but will simplify the voting for electors, be more easily administered by electoral officers, speed the finalisation of results and at the same time be fair to candidates and parties. The preferential system which we have now gives electors one of the best ways of expressing their views. In his second reading speech the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  criticised the requirement of this system which compels a voter to express a preference for candidates whom he does not know or for whom he has an extreme dislike. This obligation is neither undemocratic nor meaningless as is suggested by the Minister. It is an essential feature of a system which allows such dislikes to be recorded in a manner which effectively vetoes a candidate who is disliked by a majority of voters. The preferential system which we now use gives electors one of the best ways of expressing their views and from the electors point of view it achieves a result which is in accordance with the wishes of the majority. 
It is argued that full preferential voting is complicated. According to  Mr Ley,  the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, it is complicated to the point of being ridiculous. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has acknowledged that there is need for the system to be simplified in the case of voting procedures for Senate elections. I believe that this need also exists in the case of voting in House of Representatives elections. The complexity of the present system is seen as causing unnecessary inconvenience to electors resulting in undesirable levels of informal voting. Electors want a simplified system. A large proportion of voters follow a party ticket. They would like a shorthand method of voting. They want a method which will enable shades of opinion to be reflected in the final outcome. They also want those who desire to record their preferences to have the right to do so. 
The system of optional preferential voting that is proposed in this Bill is not first past the post voting. It is feared by many that it could lead to such a system. The Chief Australian Electoral Officer has said that he hopes it will not do so for in his eyes a move in that direction would be a backward step to an archaic system of voting. A move to a first past the post system would be anti-democratic and would reduce the range of voting choice to a minimum. 
I said first past the post voting system. The danger in the optional preferential system as proposed is that  Mr Ley  may not be permitted to do what he believes should be done, namely, to encourage the elector to mark his ballot paper as fully as possible. 
In order to demonstrate the alleged simplicity of the system there would be those who to serve their own political interests may require the Electoral Officer to promote the idea that the most effective vote is a vote given to only one candidate where subsequent preferences are ignored. Informal voting in House of Representatives elections has been relatively low. In Senate elections the proportion though higher is not only related to the number of candidates but also to the fact that more vacancies have to be filled at Senate elections. Whatever change is made in the voting system, there will still be informal voting. Some informal votes will arise from voting papers deliberately cast as informals. Every effort should be made to reduce the number of informal votes cast by those desirous of recording an effective vote. I believe that we should adopt a system which makes it as easy as possible for all voters to make their intentions known, but, in doing so, we should strive for a system that results in the election of those candidates who are both favoured or preferred by most of the electorate and not disapproved of by the majority. 
A simplified preferential voting system is one which most successfully meets those conditions. It has the desirable effects of a full preferential system insofar as candidates are ranked accord: ing to preference, together with the simplicity argued as a strength of the optional preferential system. A simplified preferential system, which I advocate, permits a candidate to register his how-to- vote card so that a voter, by placing a vote beside, say, a Liberal Party candidate, would have his vote counted in accordance with the Liberal Party's how-to-vote card. If he wished to deviate from these recommendations he would be free to do so. Such a system would enable all voters, whether they are supporters of major parties or minor parties, to use a form of shorthand to follow the party ticket. It would also give them a right to indicate their own preference should they so desire. Whether, in examining this system, they should be required to indicate a preference for all candidates or for, say, twice the number of vacancies to be filled is a matter for debate. A form of simplified voting such as this would tend to minimise the impact of the so-called donkey vote, as these unthinking voters, on becoming aware that they need number only one square for an effective vote, would not then blindly number down the card. 
The procedure needed to permit the registration of how-to-vote cards would not, contrary to an earlier interjection made by the Minister, pose insurmountable difficulties. It is already done in South Australia under a scheme sponsored by a Labor government for the purpose of public display of how-to-vote cards in each polling booth. In addition to aiding the voter, the system would greatly assist electoral officers. In an optional preferential system most, if not all, political parties would undoubtedly find it expedient to issue how-to-vote cards indicating voting preferences beyond their own candidates. In these circumstances the counting of votes would be complicated by the need to check the votes for accuracy and the number of informal votes might not be significantly reduced. Under a simplified preferential system 75 to 80 per cent of voters would use the shorthand method of indicating their preferences where they were in accord with their party's recommendations. These votes would be easy to check and easy to count. 
Furthermore, in many close contests where preferences are required to be counted the results in many instances could be ascertained more quickly. The number of preferences to be distributed would in a significant number of cases be distributable in accordance with the registered how-to-vote card, and these votes could be separately counted and their prospective destination brought into account in making assessments as to the result of the election. Those preferences alone might be sufficient to give another candidate an absolute majority. In these instances the result would be available without it being necessary for other preference votes to be individually scrutinised. Insofar as speed of finalising the result is desirable, this method of voting would go a long way towards achieving this goal without either depriving the electors of a vote or impairing their present right to express shades of opinion. 
This simplified preferential system would be far more effective than optional preferential voting, not only in leading to the speedier finalisation of election results but also in simplifying voting procedures, assisting the convenience of electors and reducing the number of informal votes. Though no system will be perfect we should at least strive to make our system as fair and as equitable as possible. Simplified preferential voting would do this and would at the same time respond to the proper public demand for greater simplicity and convenience for electors. It aims to achieve a result that most closely reflects the wishes of the people. Those having different shades of opinion and shades of thought as well as those with diametrically opposed points of view will be given an equal say in the outcome of elections where this system is used. 
When we turn to the amendments which are designed to alter the circumstances in which postal votes are to be submitted we find that their effect is to reduce the franchise. These proposals would deprive may Australians of a say in our election. The speedier finalisation of election results is advanced as the reason for these changes. To achieve this by depriving thousands of Australians of a vote is too high a price to pay. With increasing opportunities to travel both for business and pleasure, more and more people are away from home on election day. One can illustrate that by looking at some of the figures for the Federal elections in May last. In some States there were public holidays after the weekend on which the election was held and, as a consequence, there was a significant rise in absentee and postal votes. There will always be those, too, who through illness are unable to get to a polling booth. 
Any change in the law should be aimed at making it easier, not more difficult, for people to record their votes. There could and would be no electoral malpractices if there were no elections. If, with regard to postal voting, there is a need to amend the law to minimise the opportunity for malpractice, it should be done in a manner which does not effectively disfranchise large numbers of voters. The argument that the law as to postal votes needs to be changed to allow for a speedier finalisation of results is a specious one. After all, the fate of the government is in the balance from the day the Parliament is dissolved, and sometimes in practice for a longer period. If it takes a few days to finalise the result that should not matter if, by doing so, a more accurate reflection of the people's wishes is achieved. There is no intrinsic advantage in completing the count within the shortest possible time after the close of polls. Those directly involved are anxious to know the result, but of course this is as true a week before the election as it is half way through the count on election night. There is no more difficulty for a government in office to administer the affairs of the nation until a count of votes is completed than there is for it to do so during the election campaign itself. If speed in the finalisation of election results involves a reduction in the opportunities of every elector to have his vote taken into account, it should be opposed. There are other ways in which the finalisation of the count can be accelerated, and I have already explained those. 
Under the present law a person who is interstate on the day of an election may vote by means of a postal vote at an interstate polling booth. Under the proposed amendments he is to be deprived of this right. His right to such a vote will be exercised only if he can get an application for a vote to his own divisional returning officer by 6 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the election. Then if he gets a vote his vote will be counted only if he returns it not to any divisional returning officer but to his own divisional returning officer. In each instance the tightening of the time limits imposed for the lodging of postal votes have the effect of depriving people of their franchise. For years the Australian Labor Party has espoused support for the view that all votes should have an equal value, yet in a most hypocritical fashion it proposes a law which is designed to prevent people from having a say in the determination of the government in their country. 
There are many proposals in the Bill that are deserving of careful consideration, and it is a pity that we are not being given a greater opportunity to study them. Each provision must be examined to see whether it is designed to strengthen our democracy or merely to strengthen the position of the Labor Party in government. Are the provisions designed to help the elector, or is their purpose to aid only the elected? Will they improve on the present system in ensuring that the Parliament is as true a reflection of the people's wishes as is practically attainable? We have a good electoral system. I agree with the Minister for Services and Property, who, in his second reading speech, said that Australians can be justly proud of their electoral machinery. But any electoral system, even a good one, needs to be reviewed from time to time to see whether it can be improved. 
Change designed to assist the administrators of the system and those who are or would seek to be elected under it should be made only if the change is in the interests of the electors as a whole. These interests would not be served by any change which would result in the system becoming less sensitive to public opinion. This House should be given the opportunity to examine each of the proposals contained in the Bill. Our approach to this debate should be positive, not negative. Our criticisms of the proposed changes should be constructive, not destructive. It is not a Bill which should, as a consequence of political posturing, be promoted as all good or all bad. In this debate each of the clauses of the Bill is deserving of independent consideration. That there are some bad clauses in the Bill is no reason to reject the lot. We should examine them all and reject or amend where desirable the bad and approve the good. We should all strive to improve our electoral system, including our method of voting, so that it provides a means of achieving the most accurate reflection of the will of the people. Consistent with this objective we should amend it to ensure its clarity and simplicity for electors, its fairness to all candidates and parties and its efficiency from the point of view of the Electoral Office staff. 
According to the Minister the proposals contained in the Bill are designed to allow for speedier finalisation of election results, to improve voting facilities, to introduce some new and changed facilities and to correct some obvious defects in the existing electoral machinery. Alterations made with these objectives in mind may be superficially attractive, but each needs to be examined to ensure that it does not result in impairing the accuracy with which the electoral results respond to the people's wishes. There are 76 clauses in the Bill. Many- indeed over twothirds seek to amend the law in accordance with this principle. Others- I have touched on somecould be adapted by minor amendment. There is a limited number of clauses- I have also dealt with them- the approval of which would be contrary to the principle I have enunciated and about which the Minister was noticeably silent. 
Among the amendments which should be approved are the printing of party affiliations on ballot papers, the introduction of mobile polling booths at hospitals, the drawing of the positions of House of Representatives candidates on ballot papers and the preservation of the voting entitlements of Australian citizens. Indeed, the rights proposed by this legislation should go further to include not only public servants but also others who are temporarily posted overseas in similar circumstances. But, as I mentioned earlier, this offer of the right to enrolment should not be given with the one hand and taken away with the other by making the attainment and achievement of a postal vote so difficult that relatively few such persons will be able to register a formal vote. The retention on the rolls of the name of an elector who, though temporarily absent, retains a real place of living in the subdivision for which he is enrolled, the protection of candidates against the issue of misleading how-to-vote cards and a number of other amendments commend themselves. This Bill contains many such desirable amendments. 
I urge honourable members on both sides of the House not to allow cynical attitudes to prevail with the result that political power is used either to amend the law in the interests of the Australian Labor Party, which is now in office, or to prevent its amendment in a way which would improve our electoral system in the interests of the electors. We should endeavour to make those changes where in fact there is no real dispute. Where there are opposing views, informed and meaningful debate should be permitted with a view to working out ways and means of responding to public aspirations for a simplified yet truly representative electoral system. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the immigration target for 1973-74. 
How many migrants arrived in Australia during 1973-74. 
In which countries did the migrants who arrived in Australia during 1 973-74 lodge their applications to migrate, and how many were there from each. 
In which countries were those who migrated to Australia during 1973-74 born, and how many were there from each. 
-The Bills now before the House demonstrate quite clearly that the Government has no clearly enunciated philosophy for income tax or for other taxes. What is urgently needed is a precise and detailed statement as to this country's and this Government's philosophical approach to taxation. But the 3 Budgets from which the legislation now before this House arises, when linked with the Budget of 12 months ago, demonstrate a hotch-potch approach to taxation. As a result, the average taxpayer who is bound to fill out a tax return has no idea as to the burden that he is likely to bear, nor can he forecast the approach that the Government is likely to take in the future. 
First, a tax system is used to collect revenue to run the Government. Secondly, a tax system is also used to redistribute incomes. Thirdly, a tax system can be used as an important tool in economic management. With regard to the aspect of a tax system used to redistribute income, we need a clear definition of what the Government's purpose is. The manner in which the Government has approached this tax legislation gives no guide to its attitude. It demonstrates a piecemeal approach where in some instances people are wrongly discriminated against and in others there is discrimination in their favour. In the meantime, the average taxpayer is the one who suffers. 
One of the means used in a tax system to redistribute incomes is that where an effort is made to redistribute vertically between those on a high income and those on low incomes. I suppose the normal way in which this is done is by a progressive rate scale. But in Australia we have a progressive rate scale which has been varied twice this year and there is no indication as to how it will be varied in the future. So the man today on average weekly earnings can calculate the proportion of his income that is taken in tax, but he does not know what proportion of his income will be taken next year, and he should know. The fact that there is a progressive rate scale fixed in money terms unrelated to changing levels of income in terms of average weekly earnings means that the Government has a vested interest in inflation. In a quite irresponsible way, a government can encourage inflationary pressures to develop. As a consequence of that it knows that the proportion of incomes that come into its hands as a result of an increased tax take is greater than if it adjusts the scale strictly in accordance with the changing general level of incomes. 
I think there is an urgent need to fix the rate scale so that people at various levels of incomethose who have an expectation of income at 100 per cent of average weekly earnings, those with an expectation of 75 per cent of average weekly earnings and those in the lower income brackets -can be sure that the amount of their income taken by the Government maintains a fixed proportion to their income. The other benefits that would flow from such a scheme where the rate scale was in some way index related, would be that a government could not irresponsibly expand its expenditure without being required by Parliament, by the people, to come into the Parliament and justify that expenditure. How often when we look at the relationship between the Australian Government and State governments do we hear the plea that those who spend the money should raise the money? The same approach should be made in relation to the rate scale as a whole. The Government, if it wants to take a higher proportion of incomes into the Government sector should be required to justify the expenditure and not take a higher proportion of every man's pay packet by stealth. That is what happens when there is the sort of rate scale that is being introduced in the legislation now under discussion, there is no mechanism for that rate scale to be adjusted in accordance with the rise in the general level of money incomes. 
I have referred to the fact that a taxation system aims at bringing about a vertical redistribution between those who have a capacity to earn high incomes and whose capacity is less. But it is equally important that the tax system be equitable in the manner in which it brings about a horizontal redistribution. It is necessary that a tax system should look at the position of 2 taxpayers on the same income and ask whether in the light of their differing responsibilities, their tax burdens should be the same. Should the tax burden on a single man be the same as that imposed upon a man with a dependent wife and 2 young children? If the burden should be different, is the difference now allowed by the system adequate sufficiently to provide the taxpayer who has dependants with a reduced burden that will enable him to fulfil adequately his added responsibilities. 
It is important to recognise that the question of horizontal equity should be studied at every income level. It would appear from the way in which this Government approaches the question that it has the belief that once a person 's income reaches a certain level, irrespective of his responsibilities, he should pay the same tax as the man with the same income but with far fewer responsibilities. This of course involves also an examination of the equity of the tax system insofar as it affects not only a taxpayer but also a tax paying family unit. I reject out of hand the suggestion that there should be an aggregation of family incomes and the imposition of taxation on the aggregate income. I urge that consideration be given to taxation of the family incomes upon the basis of a notional partnership between husband and wife. The family man who is earning, say, $ 10,000 a year should not be as grossly disadvantaged as he is today when his family is compared with a family earning 2 incomes- say $6,000 a year by one person and $4,000 by the other. 
There are many such families where the contribution in time at work taken on a family basis is not different. The male breadwinner can have the same sort of job in each family, but one man may take all the overtime he can get and may be away from his family for several additional hours. He gets a higher income of say $ 10,000 a year. Another man with similar skills doing similar work could say: 'No, I will not take any overtime. I will go home and look after my family whilst my wife takes a job'. She could work as many hours as those worked by the first man in overtime. In other words the families could be in like circumstances yet the tax burden borne by those 2 families could vary significantly, to the extent that one family would be discriminated against. 
Yes. As my colleague says, it is a scheme of penalties which imposes a harsh burden on the family which has a strong desire that the mother should stay home to look after young children. One would think, in the light of such evidence that is available, that the incentives should be directed to encouraging mothers of young children to be at home, certainly while their children are in the pre-school age group. This Government has introduced a hotch-potch of methods whereby it seeks to achieve some equity to take account of the differing responsibilities of families. We find that there are concessions which are allowed under which a taxpayer is entitled to deduct from income the amount of a special expenditure, for example, rates paid on his house. The benefit to him is then related to the marginal rate of tax which he pays. Some concessions are available to all; other concessions are limited by the income level to only a few taxpayers. Then there are rebates where the tax bill is worked out and an amount is deducted because of a person's particular responsibility. In some instances the rebate is available to all; in others it is available only to some, according to income level. 
We find in this legislation, when we look at the concession to be made available to those with dependants, a combination of a rebate and a concession. Let us look at each of these. Let us turn first to the concessions available to all. There are rates and taxes with a ceiling limit of $300 and a limit in respect of rates payable only on the house in which the taxpayer is residing. There is an education allowance, which is being drastically cut in the Budget, imposing heavy burdens on all taxpayers who have school-going children, no matter to which school they go. There are deductions for insurance, superannuation payments and gifts to charities, which come within the concession area. I touch briefly on concessional deductions in respect of gifts to charities. It is appallling that the Government continues to talk about withdrawing the tax deductibility of donations to school building funds, as well as gifts to charities. Instead of encouraging people to be independent the Government is trying to turn Australians into submissive hangers-on who will be forced to turn to big brother for all their needs. 
Not only would the withdrawal of these taxation concessions be a body blow to the independent school system; it would also be a device to take us one step further towards total State control over many aspects of our lives, even down to the practical expression of human concern of one person for another. Apparently the Government wants to kill off community based charities and replace them with a bureaucratic maze of government departments. These departments will be supposed to deliver the same kind of service as charities. The difference will be that the method of delivery will involve colossal waste of resources and, at the same time, eliminate the heart and soul that motivate charity organisations. Over the years many of these bodies have become institutions with which Australians have become closely identified in a personal and compassionate way. This has immeasurably enriched the community. They have met community needs in a direct response to community concern and they have been sustained by community concern in a way in which no government department could be sustained. Anyone who has given anything to a charity and anyone who has ever benefited from the work of these organisations must continue in their public protest at the possibility that tax deductibility for gifts to these organisations could be removed. The right of people to express their concern as to the way in which charities could be assisted is an important right and to take away that right is to substitute a less sensitive system to meet the needs of the community. 
It is apparent in the legislation we are now debating that in many instances the Government seeks to phase out a rebate or a concession. It wants to limit the availability of that rebate to people whose income is below a certain level notwithstanding the fact that people whose income is higher have special responsibilities of a like kind and notwithstanding the fact that those people with higher incomes are already paying substantial amounts in tax. That tax is calculated on very high average rates of taxation. Furthermore, from every additional $1 that those people on medium and higher incomes are earning a high proportion is being ripped off in tax. Apparently there is no recognition in the middle and higher income levels of the differing responsibilities of persons with the same income. 
In the remaining moments at my disposal I want to touch in more detail on the vicious reduction that has been made in the tax concession in respect of education expenses. The amount allowable has been reduced at a time when it should have been increased. If these concessional deductions are to have any continuing meaning their value or amount in money terms should be increased regularly so that their real value is maintained. No one can suggest that the cost of educating a child at any school has declined since this Government came to office. I think the parents of every school child are finding more and more that the expenses of educating their children are rising, for even though we have a socalled free education system there are still many items of expenditure which people are required to pay in respect of the education of their children. It is no excuse to say that people are getting more spent on education in other ways. 
On other platforms spokesmen for the Government will claim that they have spent so much more in money terms, not real terms, on education, but by sleight of hand, by describing amounts that were formerly paid to the States as general grants and as education grants, they boost their figures. This is accountancy trickery. So, here, with the individual taxpayer the same sleight of hand is being used. The reduction in the education concession is justified on the basis that more is being spent on education in other spheres. If that is so, why does the Government not look at its education program as a whole and reduce what it claims it is spending in education by giving to the taxpayers the credit for the withdrawal of this tax concession? The Government 's attitude to the tax deductibility of education expenses is clear. Why did it not use the same approach here as it has used in respect of the dependants' allowance? Why did it not allow to every parent who has a child at school a minimum deduction of 40 per cent of the $400 or such lesser amount spent on education- that is, in respect of $400 spent on education a rebate of $160? Why did the Government adopt that approach in respect of the concessional deductions for dependants and another approach in respect of this deduction? We need to know its philosophy in regard to the education concession and its attitude to tax concessions and rebates as a whole. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
Clauses 1 to 16- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
-In this grievance debate I want to raise an issue that affects us all, because we all use our road systems. We all drive in motor cars or drive a motor car. We have all been driving a motor car or been in a motor car going along a main road when the flow of traffic on that main road has been interrupted by a car coming from a minor road. Earlier this year the Australian Transport Advisory Council decided that an effort should be made to bring about uniformity between the States in laws relating to the give-way rule. In South Australia, the State from which I come, until recently we have not had much use for the give-way sign. Our system has been one of stop signs. I am pleased to note that, more and more, the giveway sign is being used so that traffic approaching main roads is required to give way, to yield to traffic going in both directions across the mouth of the minor road. But South Australia has used a stop sign system, and the law there has meant that you stop at the stop sign and then, provided the road is clear on your right, you have the right of way to proceed. 
Many South Australians, particularly those living in metropolitan Adelaide, will have often experienced the hazardous situation of driving along a main road in free flowing traffic knowing that they are protected from the sudden incursion of traffic from the side streets, to the extent that the side streets have stop signs, only to find that the flow of traffic is interfered with by a car which has, in accordance with the law, stopped, but then proceeded forward in exercise of its right of way. The flow of traffic has then had to be stopped to allow the car coming from one minor road across a main road to another minor road in exercise of its right of way. Very often, but for the lack of courtesy that one occasionally sees on the roads, the car at the stop sign could have allowed that free flowing traffic to continue. Had the driver been patient and waited for the traffic to clear, he could then have gone forward at a time when there was an adequate clearance in the traffic on the main road which would enable him to go forward without interfering with the free flow of the main road traffic. Very often in such situations as I have illustrated dangerous and hazardous cases arise. Cars on the main road have to stop suddenly, or decelerate, and very often accidents arise. 
I am very pleased that South Australia, along with New South Wales, has adopted the recommendations of the Australian Transport Advisory Council and is introducing legislation to change the implication of the stop sign, so that instead of the stop sign meaning 'stop and then go forward, exercising if you want to a right of way over traffic coming from your right ', the stop sign will mean 'stop and give way'. All of us who drive know that a large degree of the art of driving is based upon a sixth sense, an automatic reaction. I express very grave concern about the change in the law. It is an excellent change, but it is one of those cases where to tell the public 'you are presumed to know the law' is not sufficient. Nor will it be sufficient to advertise widely throughout South Australia or New South Wales or any other State where a change is made, to tell people of the change. For many of them, the significance of the stop sign, the significance of the old meaning of right of way, is ingrained in their driving habits and they will continue in the future in an emergency situation to act in accordance with their early and, for many, long term experience. 
I urge that those concerned on the national scene and those concerned in the States give earnest consideration to how this difficulty can be overcome. I could illustrate how the reaction situation does arise. I know of one tragic case that occurred in South Australia in which the driver was a visitor from overseas and was used to driving on the right hand side of the road, with all his emergency reactions operating in a contrary direction to the way in which they operate in Australia. When an emergency situation occurred he reacted according to his automatic response and a fatal accident occurred. I am concerned that the same sort of tragedy could befall people who, coming to a stop sign, although driving with care, react and respond according to their ingrained experience of the past meaning of the stop sign. My plea would be that consideration be given to placing on all stop signs, where the meaning of the stop sign is being changed, the words or the accepted sign for give-way so that when a person approached the sign he or she would see 'Stop- give- way'. People would then know that the sign meant not only that the driver had to stop but also that the driver had to yield to the traffic coming in both directions. 
-I would hope, too, that studies will be undertaken to ensure that main roads and main traffic routes in cities are made reasonably free flowing traffic courses and that where there are not already stop signs with, hopefully, a giveway sign on them as well, more give way signs will be used to ensure that these main arterial roads in the cities and elsewhere are safer than they are today. It is true that it will be necessary to make a study of the main traffic routes to ensure that traffic coming into and traffic going off main roads has adequate access to do so without being disadvantaged by the greater number of give-way signs. We are moving to a give-way situation in which one will have to give way under all circumstances. The only change which is being introduced is that one must not only stop but also give way when one is confronted with a stop sign. I emphasise again the difficulty that will be experienced in those parts of Australia where the stop sign has not in the past meant that one must give way. I urge that, in the interests of road safety and in the interests of families who will otherwise suffer, careful consideration be given to the desirability of placing a give-way sign on the stop signs in areas where the meaning of the stop sign is in the process of being changed. 
-This legislation is far reaching in its import. It is legislation- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I give notice that I intend to present on General Business Thursday, No. 8, a Bill for an Act to amend the law relating to parliamentary elections, by making provision for the use of a simplified method of preferential voting. 
-In the short time available to me I want to deal with the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill. Before doing so, I should like to comment upon the way in which part of this debate has been a debate of the Parliament, there concerned members of Parliament have been able to express a point of view about legislation which is to make real social progress to help the needy people within our community. 
The hope that I express is that when we go out into the community it will be recognised and acknowledged that the sorts of changes we are dealing with today are changes brought about by the Parliament and not necessarily by any particular Party. If there could be more such debates and more such acknowledgement I am sure there would be a greater appreciation and more response in the Australian electorate to our activities in this Parliament in deliberating on important issues. 
The Nursing Homes Assistance Bill is designed to enable the charity, benevolent, non-profit nursing homes to operate a deficit financing scheme. I want to underline the concern that was expressed by my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in his speech to the House. Undoubtedly those people who are aged need security of income; undoubtedly those people who are aged need security of accommodation; and undoubtedly those people who are aged need security in the possibility and actuality of ill health. For many aged people the concern about ill health is a fear. Unfortunately for some it is realised. Their concern is: Will there be a bed available and, if there is, can I afford that bed? The last Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a nursing home benefits scheme which was designed to provide benefits that would enable 70 per cent of the beds to be available at prices which a pensioner could afford- at prices which would leave to the pensioner at least one-quarter of his total income, comprised of a pension plus supplementary assistance. 
When this Labor Government came to office, for 18 long months it refused to make changes in the nursing home benefits and then, in quick succession, recognising at last the vast increases in the costs of operating nursing homes, it made 2 increases in the nursing home benefit. But it has not given any indication as to what is to happen in the future. Yet, in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  which dealt with the Nursing Home Assistance Bill and its provisions for deficit financing, the Minister says to the charity nursing homes that the option is entirely theirs- the option to determine whether they will enter this scheme or stay under the present nursing home benefits scheme. But what is the alternative option? The Minister has given no indication as to when nursing home benefits will again be reviewed. In fact, on the last occasion on which he announced increases in the benefits he denied that these benefits would be related to an index. 
I have challenged him on a number of occasions to fix nursing home benefits in accordance with an index. He says it is not possible. Yet when we look at this Bui, the Minister or his officers are going to examine the budgets of the charity-run nursing homes and determine whether or not in the circumstances the fees that they are charging and the deficit under which they are operating are reasonable. If he can do that for those nursing homes I am amazed that he and his officials cannot do it for the generality of nursing homes. After all, his Department has great expertise, for it is the Department which determines the fees that can be charged by nursing homes. In fixing those fees he has an accurate idea of the fees charged in respect of the 40,000 or 50,000 nursing home beds throughout Australia. I should think it would then be easy to relate the benefits to an index influenced by the fee determinations of the Minister's own Department. If the Minister were then able to tell the nation, to tell those who are concerned with the administration of nursing homes that they could expect increases in nursing home benefits, then the charity-run nursing homes would have a real option. They would be able to determine the advantage of going into deficit budgeting as against the alternative advantages, the greater autonomy and the freedom from control in operating under the present scheme where the benefits are maintained at realistic levels. But the Minister has remained silent on this, and if he has an opportunity in closing this debate I hope that he will be able to declare to the public that nursing home benefits will maintain their real value and that the choice that charity-run nursing homes have is a real one. 
My other criticism of the proposals in the Bill is that the Bill deals with nursing homes entering into agreements but it does not indicate how they can opt out of the agreements or whether, if they can opt out of them, the financial burden of opting out will be set so high that the price will keep them locked into the deficit budgeting scheme, unable to free themselves of the controls that might be imposed upon them. Also, the agreements that they enter into can be varied by the Minister- true, after consultation- but consultation does not involve taking notice of those with whom one consults. The Minister can change the agreement and the agreement is not only changed for the future but it is changed in respect of those homes which have already entered into the agreement. 
I make my final point by expressing concern that in setting standards the Minister might follow up some of the remarks he made earlier when he commented on the fee structure in the Victorian nursing homes. The method of operation and the philosophy behind the operation of many nursing homes differ, and merely to say that their fee structure is different is not to say that the one is any less efficient than the other. One may be providing a better service with greater emphasis on rehabilitation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know that my colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  wishes to speak and I therefore conclude my remarks at that point. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state in a letter, dated 26 June 1974, to the Premier of Queensland that his Government's view is that the inhabited islands should remain with Australia and the Islanders should retain their present status as Australian citizens. 
Did he also state in that letter that discussions would take place with Queensland which could embrace consideration of the area as a 'marine park' or 'protected area'. 
Did the proposal for the Torres Strait area to be made an international marine park originate in a resolution of the Queensland Parliament of 3 April 1974. 
Was this resolution communicated to him. 
Does the Government accept the concepts of an international marine park and common subsistence fishing for the inhabitants of the Torres Strait Islands and Papua in the whole of the area. 
Is it the Government's intention to proceed with the promised discussions. 
Has the Torres Strait Islanders Advisory Council informed the Government that the Islanders wish to remain within Queensland. 
Has it been decided that Australia will not cede the Torres Strait Islands to Papua New Guinea against the wishes of the inhabitants and their right to selfdetermination. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Employment Service inform the Department of Social Security of persons registered for unemployment who refuse an offer of suitable employment. 
If so, does the Commonwealth Employment Service keep statistics of these reports. 
If statistics are kept, how many persons have been reported in each of the States in each of the months since 1 July 1973. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does his Department receive reports from the Commonwealth Employment Service of persons who, having registered for employment, refuse an offer of suitable employment 
If so, does his Department keep statistics of these reports. 
If statistics are kept, how many persons have been reported in each of the States in each of the months since 1 July 1973. 
What effect did these reports have on the determination by his Department of the eligibility of such claimants for unemployment benefit. 
How many claims for unemployment benefit were rejected on the ground that the claimant had refused an offer of suitable employment in each of the States in each of the months since 1 July 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has any agreement been made between Australia and Papua New Guinea to cede to Papua New Guinea the uninhabited islands of the Torres Strait. 
If not, has the Government considered the possibility of making such an agreement. 
Are there any constitutional difficulties in entering into or carrying out such an agreement. 
Would the ceding of the uninhabited islands of the Torres Strait raise serious defence implications for Australia. 
Would the ceding result in that shipping passage known as the North-East Passage ceasing to be wholly within Australian territorial control. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer to his answer to a question earlier this morning. Are public statements that the federal deficit currently is $2,769m incorrect? Is the figure quoted by him this morning in an earlier answer $ 1,000m less than this figure? How did this mistake occur? Further, is it a fact that the present tax structure is not index related? Is it a fact that, without either index related adjustment to the tax structure or ad hoc amendments to it, a higher proportion of earnings of the average worker are being raked off into Treasury coffers? Will the cost of Medibank be a significant reason preventing the reduction or causing an increase in the proportion of the average earners income taken in tax? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 525 (Hansard, 15 October 1974, page 2371), what answers did the 33 1 medical practitioners give, to the questions contained in the passenger cards completed by them prior to entry into Australia as to their (a) country of birth, (b) country of citizenship and (c) country of embarkation. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many allotments of land were for sale in the Adelaide Statistical Division on the first days of May, June and July, 1974. 
) How many of these allotments were for sale for $5,000 or less, and in which suburbs were they located. 

 -Mr Chairman, I should like to postpone this clause until clause 1 1 has been considered. 
Clause postponed. 
Clause 4 to 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 11. 
The Curriculum Development Centre Council shall consist of- 
the Director; 
1 member nominated by the Secretary to the Department of Education; 
3 members nominated by the Australian Education Council; 
2 members nominated by the Schools Commission; and 
such number of other members, not being less than 4 or more than 9, as is from time to time determined by the Governor-General by notice published in the Gazette. 
-The aim of this Bill is to establish the Curriculum Development Centre as a statutory authority. The decision to create such a centre was announced by the Government in June 1 973. Its functions include a responsibility to devise and develop, and to pro? mote and assist in the devising and development of, school curricula and school educational materials. Then there is a wide range of other related objectives. The standard of curriculum options available to our schools is a significant determinant of the quality of education, but it is not only the standard of curriculum; it is also its relevance which is vitally important. The curriculum may be of a high technical standard, but it may have little relationship to the needs of children living in a rapidly changing world. 
The continuing need for development of curricula which are both of high quality and of contemporary relevance has been increasingly recognised. Despite the pleading of those who have for some time recognised the need for a greater effort in curriculum development, the extent of the development achieved has been limited by a lack of appreciation of the need not only to improve but also to adapt curricula, by a shortage of resources and by some unnecessary duplication of effort. The introduction of this Bill does not mark the first occasion on which the Commonwealth has been involved in curriculum development. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in his second reading speech, paid proper tribute to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the pan he played as Minister for Education in the sequence of events which have culminated in the establishment of this Centre. It was he who first involved the Commonwealth in the provision of financial support for curriculum projects. Projects supported by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government included the Australian Education Project, the program to stimulate the teaching of Asian languages and the establishment of the National Committee on Social Science Teaching. Support for these specific programs has led logically to the proposal for the establishment of a permanent statutory Curriculum Development Centre. When the decision to establish such a centre was announced, the Minister formed an Interim Council. This Council drafted guidelines for the initiation of the Centre's functions, held a representative conference, considered the views expressed and presented a statement of its conclusions as to the functions and mode of operation of the Curriculum Development Centre. 
It is interesting to note that the Interim Council defined its fundamental aim as being 'to foster curriculum and materials development from preschool to post secondary level'. This definition refers to pre-school and post-secondary levels. Neither the Interim Council nor the Minister apparently contemplates the Centre as being concerned with curriculum development at these levels, as no further reference is made to these levels of education either in the discussion paper or in the Bill. Based on the aim as outlined by the Interim Council, its views as to how the Centre should function were set out. It very clearly enunciated the guidelines which it considered the Centre should follow. Though the Minister paid tribute to the  Chairman  of the Interim Council, Professor G. T. Evans, and his fellow councillors for pursuing their task 'with vigour and imagination', he did not indicate that he adopted the views they expressed in their statement. Unless he does disclose his attitude to the statement it can only be assumed that he will adopt only so many of their recommendations as he wishes. This means that all those who are interested in the future development of the Curriculum Development Centre have little idea of whether the Government wishes it to function in the manner suggested or in some other way. Will the Council to be set up under the Bill follow the guidelines proposed by the Interim Council or will it adopt an entirely different approach to its role? Will the Curriculum Development Centre, once established, accept the broad concept of curriculum as including the totality of experience which a child undergoes during his schooling? 
Will it see its task as being concerned with such areas as resources, sequencing of learning activities, teacher-pupil interaction, organisation of the learning situation and the teachers' general approach to children and teaching? If it does, it will be accepting the proposals of the Interim Council. But will it distinguish, as the Interim Council did, between development of prototypes and demonstration of possibilities on the one hand and taking decisions on curriculum policy on the other? If so, will it also agree that the former task is one for the Curriculum Development Centre while the latter is one for State departments of education, the Schools Commission and schools themselves? In other words, will it act as an advisory body or will it tell State departments and schools what to do? 
In view of the Minister's silence on the statement of the Interim Council, will the Council of the Curriculum Development Centre acknowledge that it should not seek to replace or discourage but rather to expand and encourage the curriculum work that is being carried out and can be carried out by other agencies? The work now being carried out by the State departments of education, tertiary institutions, subject teaching associations and other interested groups and individuals should not be stifled in any way. Though the curriculum development facilities of State departments may be fully stretched, as the Minister suggests, it is to be hoped that the Curriculum Development Centre will assist them to expand their activities. There will be a continuing need to produce material with particular reference to individual States, and the development of such material should not be discouraged. Where that material might have a wider application the Curriculum Development Centre should play a significant role in ensuring that these sorts of development programs are adequately funded. If it seeks to encourage curriculum development by other agencies, the Council of the Centre will also look beyond the departments of education. It will be concerned to encourage the development of strong professional initiatives at the school level. Until its policy is known we can only speculate as to whether it will recognise the key role of the teacher or make an exclusive commitment to the idea of developing what some would describe as teacher-proof curricula. Although there has been no permanent facility for the exchange of information and ideas, increasing amounts have in fact been exchanged. The establishment of the Centre should facilitate exchange within Australia and also should make it easier for education authorities to have access to overseas developments. But there will be exchange within Australia only if curriculum development is being carried out by more than one authority. This can occur only if other authorities have the financial means and, importantly, are free of other constraints which prohibit the carrying out of curriculum development programs. The Opposition hopes that there will be no such constraints. The information and ideas available for exchange would then be assured of including development achieved by the expert designers of educational material, by education administrators, by teachers and by combined efforts. 
It must be said that Orwellian fears have sometimes been expressed about Federal involvement in curriculum development. The manner in which past programs have been carried out was effective in allaying what had been described as the nightmare prospect of all texts being produced in Canberra for regimented assignment. These fears could be revived unless there is an early commitment, if not by both the Minister and the new Council, at least by the new Council, to the approach outlined by the Interim Council. The Interim Council stressed the continuing need to communicate with and involve in the process of curriculum development not only persons with special skills but also teachers, pupils and even parents. 
At the same time as we hear talk of community involvement in education and greater autonomy for the school community, we find some apprehension that as the teacher has fewer and fewer responsibilities in the curriculum process he has less and less control over the classroom program. So much depends on one's approach to curriculum development. Is it what may be described as a practical one which sees curriculum development as being so bound up with the education system that it is a matter for education administrators? Or is it based on a more theoretical approach and hence seen to be the exclusive preserve of academic educationists? Or is it a combination of these 2 approaches, combined with the recognition of the significant role to be played by the classroom teacher? In a real world there must be co-operation between education administrators, specialist curriculum research and development workers and classroom teachers. To achieve the optimum level of co-operation involves finding a balance, with the inevitable tension between the divergent approaches. The Interim Council appears to have accepted the necessity of those tensions if the best results are to be achieved. It is to be hoped that the council to be set up under this Bill will do the same. 
Unless the Curriculum Development Centre performs the role outlined for it by the Interim Council there is a danger that it could become the preserve of a Canberra-based education bureaucracy. This could happen if those who see education as essentially a branch of social policy seek to over-centralise the whole of Australia's education system. But the danger for the school child and for the community at large is that those responsible for curriculum development might adopt an attitude that there is only one way of proceeding. The more centralised curriculum development becomes the more likely it is that the administrator's view will dominate that of the research worker and the classroom teacher. Then it will not be long before the education administrator acts in response to political policy determination in fields previously the preserve of the educator. If the approach advocated by the interim council is adopted by the Council, this will not happen. We in the Opposition do not want to see a single uniform national curriculum imposed on schools by a politically directed or motivated education bureaucracy whether it is based in Canberra or in Albury-Wodonga. 
The curriculum development centre should aim at achieving a system of curriculum provision of greater variety- variety within education systems and not merely between them. It should aim to provide greater diversity and a wider variety of high-quality curriculum options so that they are available not only to education systems but also to schools, parents and students. In this way, the classroom teacher could be assured of a degree of responsibility in curriculum determination. It should, in any way it can, help those concerned with curriculum development to avoid expenditure of scarce resources on parallel developments. While diversity and variety are most desirable, we also want curriculum development to make it easier for those parents who move from one State to another. The increasing mobility between States results in more and more children suffering from what can be described as curriculum shock. Many children are seriously affected by the impact of such change. Without the dangers and disadvantages of a single uniform curriculum, we should aim to achieve a degree of commonality between education systems so as to minimise the difficulties created in the educational development of children in an increasingly mobile society. 
In highlighting what he regarded as the main provisions of the Bill, the Minister placed emphasis on the centre's intended business operations. It is these operations which, according to the Minister, are the primary reason for making the Centre a statutory corporation. The need to hold copyright- the desirability of buying and even selling teaching materials in its role as a developer of curricula- is not disputed. However, reservations are expressed about the proposed intention to have the Centre engaged in production and sale. It is intended that the Centre become a major manufacturer and supplier of school resource material? Upon what basis would it trade? Is it to derive an income? It is clear from the Minister's second reading explanation that this is the case. It is apparently intended that it will increase its funds by earning an income from the sale of products and the provision of services. 
I appreciate that and acknowledge the importance of the Curriculum Development Centre holding the copyright. However, I merely raise the question as to the basis upon which the material is made available. 
-We acknowledge the importance of covering that wide range, but we ask what directions the Minister will give pursuant to clause 46. Will he authorise it to be selective in the charges it makes according to the circumstances of the customer, or will he determine a policy of uniform charges to all for like materials and services? Or will the charges be imposed on education authorities as inter-governmental transactions in the case of State education departments? The fact that it is entering a business operation must necessarily raise these questions. So that these transactions can be kept under public scrutiny, the Opposition expresses the hope that the council, in maintaining proper accounts, will keep those for its trading operations distinct from those relating purely to curriculum development. It is also hoped that the council in its reports will make available details of its pricing policy. 
We would not want a situation where a mediocre curriculum was forced upon Australian schools by the Centre's pricing policies any more than we would want the Centre to make a charge for its materials and services so that education authorities and/or parents pay more than would have been the case had the materials and services been made available through the ordinary market. I hope the Minister in his response will tell us more of what he has in mind in this regard. 
In supporting the overall concept of the Bill, the Opposition does have a contrary view regarding the composition of the council as proposed by the Government. Many State education departments have their own curriculum development units. State education departments will be the major users of any curricula developed by the centre. If this centre is intended not to monopolise curriculum development but to establish liaison and working relations with bodies interested in curriculum development, it is in the Opposition's view desirable that the council contain a nominee of each State Education Minister. The Opposition therefore intends at the appropriate stage to move an amendment to achieve this. I point out, however, at this time that we do not see these nominees as playing the role of delegate or representative. We seek merely to give those who must necessarily be involved in the development of curricula for schools- the State education departments and their Ministers- the opportunity to select the highly competent people that we know the Minister would want to select in filling the vacancies that it will be his responsibility to 611. 
We think that the establishment of this centre has the potential to make a significant contribution to the improvement of the education offered Australian children, and we hope that the potential will be realised. We support the Bill but will, in the Committee stages, move the amendment to which I have referred. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clause: '(1) The Curriculum Development Centre Council shall consist of- 
the Director; 
1 member nominated by the Secretary to the Department of Education; 
3 members nominated by the Australian Education Council; 
1 member nominated by each State Minister who is a member of the Australian Education Council; 
2 members nominated by the Schools Commission; and ( 0 such number of other members, not being more than 3, as is from time to time determined by the Governor-General by notice published in the Gazette.'. 
I do not want to spend long in discussing this matter. I have referred to the point I made in my speech on behalf of the Opposition during the second reading debate. The Bill details in clause 
I I the composition of the Council of the Centre. The Council is to include a member nominated by the Secretary of the Department of Education, 3 members nominated by the Australian Education Council, 2 members nominated by the Schools Commission and between four and nine other members. The Minister gave the explanation which the Opposition expected him to give. All I can say is that the Opposition would urge the Minister to examine again the arguments which support the view that those who operate the large education departments within the States should be given an opportunity to nominate members to the Council. It always appears to be acceptable to this Government that a secretary of a department here in Canbera can nominate, that a schools commission established in Canberra can nominate and that the Minister in Canberra can nominate, but give that power of nomination to anyone else and the Government is opposed to the idea. 
The Minister made one or two points with regard to lack of flexibility. The Opposition feels sure that flexibility could be introduced into the concept if one looked at the numbers on the Council. Our principal point is to urge the Government again to look at this question and to see whether that wide range of Australian expertise could not be mobilised just as effectively, indeed more effectively, by allowing the Ministers of Education in the States to nominate experts whom they consider could serve well this Curriculum Development Centre. What special position are we placed in here in Canberra always to select the best group of people to form such a council? The Opposition urges the Minister not to see those people who would be nominated by the Ministers of Education in the States as being there as representatives or delegates. Such a method of promotion is a means of pooling the wide resources available in the community as it allows nomination by others who have a deep concern in the development of curriculum programs for use in the Australian education system. 
-The Bill we are discussing is designed to establish a Technical and Further Education Commission. The Opposition will support the second reading of the Bill, as it believes that the Commission should be established. However, in the Committee stages of the Bill the Opposition will seek to amend clause 9, and I will refer in a moment to our reasons for so doing. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  told the House that the Commission to be established by the Bill would be the fourth and last of a series of commissions to be established to advise the Government on the needs and priorities in the various sectors of education. 
It should be noted that the Universities Commission has been in existence for a period considerably longer than the present Government, as has the Commission on Advanced Education. The Schools Commission is, of course, of more recent origin. The existence of these 3 Commissions has made it increasingly urgent for the Government to promote legislation to establish some form of commission to deal with and have concern for technical and further education. To have failed to do so would have been to leave technical and further education as the Cinderella of education.  Mr M.  H. Bone, Director of Further Education in South Australia, has said: 
We who have been the Cinderella of education have at last been invited to the ball, and I feel assured that, even when midnight comes, we will not return to the past. 
It is public awareness of the role of technical and further education that will assure it of a permanent place in the education system. It is the establishment of this Commission which will provide a guarantee that it will remain on an equal footing with other areas of post-school education. Honourable members of this House would be aware that the establishment of a permanent commission was recommended by the Kangan Committee. The Commission to be established would have among its functions the responsibility of giving the Government advice on the general development of technical and further education. The Commission is to consist of a chairman, a deputy chairman and such other members not being fewer than five nor more than ten as are from time to time prescribed. 
The Opposition wants to draw to the notice of the House what should be well known: That the States have a vital interest in technical and further education. In fact, most of the technical and further education in Australia is provided by State government institutes and institutions. If development of education in this field is to be as significant as it should be, the States must be fully involved. It is our view that this can best be achieved by ensuring that they have a direct role to play in the work of the Commission. This can be achieved by allowing each of the States to nominate a member of the Commission. Such nominee need not necessarily be an education administrator. Preferably, the nominees will be persons who have the most to contribute to the development of technical and further education. 
At a later stage in the debate I will move an amendment to enable each State Minister to nominate a member of this Commission, and the Opposition urges the Government seriously to consider accepting that amendment. If it does, it will enable the States to play a real part in the development of technical and further education. We are aware of the Government's previous attitude to this sort of proposal. We urge it to review its approach and call upon it to acknowledge the merits of the arguments in favour of including a nominee of each of the State Ministers of Education. There is no need for these nominees to act as delegates or representatives in any restricting or inhibiting way. The Minister will, I know, claim that he will appoint those with talent and experience to contribute most to technical and further education development. He will deny that his appointees will act merely as his agents or delegates. If he is correct- and I hope he isthere is no reason why the primary role of the nominees of the State Ministers should be any different from that of those he will appoint. 
I do not intend on this occasion to discuss in detail the wide range of issues raised by the Kangan report, although there are some matters to which I will refer. First, it should be noted that some time has now elapsed since many of the recommendations in that report were implemented. This has enabled those working in the field to have an opportunity to comment constructively on the operation of those recommendations. Concern has been expressed at the necessary inflexibility of the grants for special projects. The Kangan Committee proposed that specific tied grants were to be available to States which are waiting to use them only for the purposes intended by the Committee's recommendations. As a result, State authorities have no flexibility to develop programs that might be more relevant to their needs than those specified in the grants. It will be most unfortunate if a lack of flexibility and a lack of local discretion restrains the responsive growth of technical and further education opportunities that should be and are made available to the communities in each of the States. Secondly, it should be acknowledged that one of the greatest contributions to the development of technical and further education made by the Kangan Committee was that it underlined and reinforced the changing emphasis that has been apparent in technical and further education on the inclusion and expansion of a general content in courses that formerly were purely technical in content. 
It is essential that, if technical education is to make an effective contribution in the educational field, this process of expanding the content to include both a general content and a technical content be continued. The serious disadvantages of technical education in the old sense in which training was interpreted are now increasingly understood. If technical education is confined to training in narrowly direct skills, those who take such courses may suffer loss of opportunity of employment of a vocational skill as a result of changing circumstances in the community. But the impact of a changing society on a tradesman with a redundant skill is far more serious if he concentrates on gaining a particular vocational skill with no general education. The result in these circumstances is that such a tradesman has no understanding of the nature of change in society and little or no capacity to adjust to that change. 
Those who learn trade skills must also have the opportunity which will enable them better to adjust to changing circumstances. There is an urgent need for a change in the content of technical education so that it includes the optimum mix of vocational and general education. As a result of the general approach to technical and further education, the emphasis is now not merely on the attainment of skills but also on the development of the abilities of the student to his best advantage.  Mr Bone,  the Director of Further Education in South Australia, has described the change that has been occurring in this way: 
The new concept of technical and further education is that it should offer more options for the individual than merely job opportunities. It should provide an opportunity for the development of character, judgment and adaptation to varying environments. It will help individuals and the community to welcome technological and social change rather than fear its consequences because they will be better equipped to cope with it. 
The third matter to which I wish to refer relates to the training of apprentices. The House would be interested again in the view of  Mr Bone  on this matter. In an article which appeared in the February edition of the 'Australian Technical Teacher' he said: 
Nowhere in technical and further education is discrimination in access more evident than in skilled training for apprentices. Access is restricted by age and adults are thus discouraged to learn or practise a trade skill. It is also restricted by the adherence to the belief that all trades require the same period of training for mastery. This is, of course, educationally insupportable and damns the whole clumsy system. 
The Liberal and Country Parties recognise the importance of dedicated and highly skilled tradesmen. We want a full examination of apprentice and trade training schemes. We want these schemes to meet the needs of today's society- a society whose needs are rapidly changing. It is our hope that the commission being set up under this Bill will accept the recommendations of the Kangan Committee on the desirability of skill training being made available to interested adults as well as to those who wish to enter apprenticeships on leaving school. In the past there have been many people who missed out in the normal process of education in training in a skill. When existing opportunities have passed them by these people have often sought training opportunities and found them unavailable. These people should be given a second chance. There are also many who, having trained in one discipline need, at a later age, to adapt that training to another skill. They too should be given every opportunity to do so. 
Not only must skill training be made more widely available, so also must the content of these courses be adjusted to suit today's society. The content of apprentice courses for school leavers as well as those for adults when available must take account of current needs. Today the school leaving age is higher than it was when the length of many apprenticeship courses was determined. School leavers now have a higher level of education. They have more highly developed learning skills. As a consequence they are able to attain an acceptable degree of competence after a shorter period of apprenticeship than was previously the case. Where this is shown to be the case the length of apprentice training should be reviewed. Where opportunities for skill training are made increasingly available to adults by way of original training or retraining the required length of training should take account of their experience and capacity to attain the required standards of competence in a shorter period than that traditionally necessary. Those with experience of adult life should be able to undertake apprenticeships that enable them to reach the required degree of skill without bonding them to a period of apprenticeship service more appropriate to the conditions of three or four decades ago. 
The Liberal and Country Parties want to ensure that our work force is more adaptable. As a nation we in Australia could learn much in this regard from the experience of other countries such as Japan. If we fail to learn the lesson of adapting our attitude to skill training other nations which adjust to the changing needs of a technological age will gain a trading advantage and our tradesmen will find themselves skilled in redundant trades. There is an urgent need not only for more adequate promotion of adult apprenticeships and wider opportunities for retraining but also for the examination of the content and length of apprenticeship courses. Individuals should be able to seek better original training or retraining not only to further their changing interests and aspirations but also to seek better opportunities for themselves in a changing world. We recognise that in any development of adult apprenticeships there will be a need to safeguard the existing entry of young men and women into trades. In our view there is no doubt that only by an updated system of apprenticeships and improved training schemes for trainees of all ages will people be able to take maximum advantage of present and future employment opportunities whilst at the same time developing their talents to the full in a dynamic and changing society. 
I mentioned earlier that the Minister had said in his second reading speech that this was the fourth and last of a series of commissions. An announcement made last week by the Minister makes me wonder whether this is so. The announcement related to the establishment by the Minister of a committee of post-secondary education in Tasmania. The committee is to review post-secondary education. 
-It may have been at the request of the Tasmanian Government, but it is significant that the committee has been set up and that it is to include the  Chairman  of the Universities Commission, Professor Karmel; the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education,  Mr T.  B. Swanson; and the  Chairman  of the Committee on Technical and Further Education, Associate Professor E. Richardson. 
-The Minister interrupts. He is trying to narrow down the responsibility of the committee. According to his Press statement, the committee is to give particular attention to 5 matters. I think it is important that the House should understand the matters that the committee is looking at. Firstly, it is to look at possible changes in present institutions and the development of new types of institutions to meet educational and cultural needs. 
There is no reference to Tasmania. Secondly, it is to look at the principles that should govern access to post-secondary education and the transfer of students between institutions. Thirdly, it is to look at the proper provisions of tertiary education for nonmetropolitan areas of the State. That is the first reference to Tasmania. Fourthly, it is to look at the possibility of sharing facilities and, fifthly, the means for future co-ordination and planning to ensure efficient and balanced development. One could well ask whether the committee, high powered as it is, is really examining a whole series of questions that effect the development of post-secondary education throughout the nation. When the committee through the mouth of the Minister invites written submissions from interested individuals - 
-One could well ask whether interested individuals on the mainland should express a view as to the development of possible changes in the present institutions, having in mind that this appears to be a general examination into the whole broad question of university education, advanced education, and technical and further education. The committee, made up of the chairmen of 3 important commissions, one of which is to be established by the Bill we are discussing tonight - 
I have no intention to misrepresent the composition of the body. It is true that the Director of Education in Tasmania is on the committee, but I still raise the question whether the issues to be examined by this committee are uniquely limited to the geographical, demographic and educational requirements of Tasmania. 
It is interesting to hear the Minister's statement that the brief this committee has is uniquely limited to Tasmania. It was my point in raising the issue tonight to ascertain what the Minister had in mind, because if it was intended that the committee should examine the whole inter-relationship of university education, advanced education, and technical and further education, the committee should not start its activities in one State alone. There may be very good reason why the whole question of the integration and inter-relationship of education in the post-secondary area should be thoroughly examined to see whether there is adequate opportunity for transfer between - 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
1 ) The Commission shall consist of- 
a Chairman; 
a Deputy Chairman; 
1 member from each State nominated by the Minister of the State concerned responsible for education; and 
such number of other members, if any, not being more than 4, as is from time to time prescribed. ' 
I outlined the purpose of this amendment in my speech during the second reading debate. The amendment deals with the composition of the Commission and seeks to have the Commission composed of a  Chairman,  a  Deputy Chairman,  one member from each State nominated by the Minister of the State concerned responsible for education, and such other members, if any, not being more than four, as are for the time being prescribed. I put the arguments in support of the amendment during the second reading debate and I not intend to detain the House in the Committee stage, except to reaffirm the Opposition's view that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  always tends to misinterpret a proposal by presuming that it is the intention of the Opposition that those members appointed to a commission under an amendment such as this should necessarily be there as the delegates or representatives of those Ministers. That is not the intention of the proposal. 
The proposal has in mind that Ministers of Education in the States also could make competent selections of highly skilled people who could make a real contribution to the development of technical and further education. Just as the Minister himself seeks to find, by looking around Australia, the most able people to make a real contribution, as he did in the case of the Kangan Committee, so it is the Opposition's views that Ministers of Education in the States would approach this matter with a degree of responsibility. In this way, because of their deep and increasing involvement in this area of education, they would feel more involved by playing a part in the selection of members of this Commission. The Opposition urges the Minister to reconsider its views and does not propose to prolong the debate any further. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. What profit per block was made by the South Australian Land Commission on its purchase and subsequent sale of blocks in a virtually fully developed subdivision at Happy Valley? Was the profit of the order of $1,000 per block on a purchase price of approximately $4,750 per block four to five months ago? Is it not a fact that similar allotments in the same area are selling for prices the same as or less than those being asked by the Land Commission? Finally, does the Minister agree that the price of land in Adelaide has always been substantially less than the price of similar land in Sydney and Melbourne and that prices of land in Adelaide cannot be properly compared with prices of land in Melbourne and Sydney? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to establish a Children's Commission. This Commission's functions will be to ascertain the needs of the Australian community for services for children and to make recommendations with respect to those needs. At the outset I bring to the notice of the House the fact that the Opposition Parties will support the second reading of the Bill. We do however want it to be known that we would tackle the problems sought to be resolved by the establishment of this Commission in a somewhat different way. When we come to the Committee stage of the debate we will put forward a number of amendments for the consideration of the Committee. 
During recent years much public attention has been focused on the need for more effective policies relating to the care and education of the preschool child, but those who have been most vocal have more often than not had a special interest in only a single aspect of the total problem. For example, many have rightly wanted to see an expansion in the availability of pre-school education, whilst others have been more concerned to press for the provision of a greater number of child care centres. The former group place emphasis on the educational needs of children, especially those in the 3 to 5 year old age group. The latter are anxious to overcome the problem of the care of children whose parents need to work. 
There has been much report writing about each of these areas of concern, but little attempt to define a comprehensive philosophy as to the care and education of children. The Fry Committee's report, though entitled 'Care and Education of Young Children', concentrated heavily on the educational role of both pre-school and day care centres and the need to use professional and sub-professional staff in each. The Social Welfare Commission in its report entitled 'Project Care- Children Parents Community' put greater emphasis on the urgent need for good quality custodial care and other childhood services, especially for those in greatest need. It paid little attention to the role of parents as the primary care givers and how they should be supported in that role. It considered substitute care rather than mother care. 
The Priorities Review Staff was then asked to report on these reports. It did so in a paper entitled 'Early Childhood Services'. The principal recommendation of this report was that the responsibility of co-ordinating and administering these services should be assigned to a Minister without vested interests. The Ministers for Education  (Mr Beazley),  Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  were all excluded on this ground, and responsibility was given to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Despite this move, the comprehensive nature of the problem has not been fully recognised. Perhaps this is because the platform of the Australian Labor Party with regard to childhood services deals primarily with the care of children other than that provided at home by their parents. Such an approach has the unfortunate consequence apparently deplored by the Minister for Education that it assumes the eclipse of the family. 
The definition of 'services for children' contained in the Bill besides including the education of pre-school age children includes only services to children 'not being cared for in their own homes' other than services to those children who are described as having special needs. The reference to general assistance to parents in relation to raising children does not appear to contemplate the provision of comprehensive assistance. When read in that overall context of the definition, its intended content seems very narrow. Increasing public concern is being expressed at the ad hoc approach to policies and programs relating to children. In my view the establishment of a commission with the purposes set out in this Bill will not enable the Commission to do what many like the New South Wales Federation of Infant School Clubs think it should do, namely 'establish a philosophy in relation to ultimate goals incorporating standards, innovations, needs and priorities in relation to families'- and I emphasise 'families'- 'and the community'. 
What is urgently needed is a clear definition of the philosophy behind the nation's approach to pre-school care and education. The role of the family, and in particular the mother, must be clarified. Without a philosophy there is danger that ad hoc decisions designed to help individually deserving cases will promote trends which will not be in the overall best interests of the community in general or children in particular. 
The tendency to distinguish between the care of the pre-school child and the education of that child has led to an unfortunate narrowing of public awareness and national concern. Firstly, the distinction has sometimes created the impression that education and care are mutually exclusive concepts, when they are not. They are closely inter-related, especially for the 3 to 5 year old. Secondly, the distinction has often hidden the importance of special consideration being given to the needs of the very young child, the child 3 years of age and under. Thirdly, the call for the provision of pre-school education outside the home has led to the assumption that concern for care should be limited to that provided outside the home. There is now a growing public recognition and expression of the view that there is no ideal substitute for home and family life for the young child. At its 1974-75 annual conference the New South Wales Federation of Infant School Clubs called upon the Government 'to ensure that no pre-school child is deprived of his or her mother's care for financial reasons, especially in the first 3 years '. 
Most Australian families either choose to care for their pre-school age children especially those of 3 years of age and under, or would like to be able to make that choice. The major objective of any child care policy should be to make this possible for those who, through economic and social pressure, are now unable to do so. Governments, and the community itself, must take positive action to counteract some of the economic and social pressures affecting families. Programs which provide substitute care should be structured to fulfil a genuine need and not so as to create a need where today none exists. We must concentrate our national energies and resources not only on creating new day care facilities but also in a wide-ranging community approach to child care. We must endorse the trend to family orientation of child care by strengthening the capabilities of families with measures designed to improve their social and economic conditions. 
To do this we must recognise that there are a wide range of economic and social policies which, whilst not being child care programs per se, influence the way in which children are cared for and by whom; their mothers or a substitute. Such matters as taxation policies originally designed for a nation of single income families or taxation concessions and child endowment and other benefits which have lost their real value are matters that are in need of urgent attention. 
As pointed out by the paper on family welfare published by the Social Welfare Commission, Australia lacks a coherent family policy. We have tended to place emphasis upon particular problems and upon individuals. In doing so we have often hindered rather than fostered the normal growth and development of the family as a nurturing unit. It is a sad commentary on a socalled affluent society when only the children of the well off can expect to enjoy continuous access to their mothers from birth to the age of 3, or even 5 years. 
Growing numbers of families find themselves unable to reconcile the financial difference between the childless, 2 -income situation of early married life with the single income family role that comes with parenthood. Frequently this economic dilemma is resolved by the mother going out to work. In the case of mothers of infants and pre-school children the decision is often taken with misgivings- a sense of guilt on the part of the mother and feelings of inadequacy on the part of the father- often with resulting tensions and disruptions to normal family life. The parents rationalise that they had no choice, as, in truth, many of them do not. 
Another factor that helps to perpetuate the working mother syndrome in respect of mothers of young children is that everybody is doing it. The emphasis now being placed on personal fulfilment for women in their non-maternal role provides further incentive over and above the economic necessity which compels many a mother into the work force while her children still need her presence at home. The traditional emphasis on the importance of the maternal role has, I believe, suffered on both counts, and there is now a need to help contemporary women achieve the balance that they are entitled to find between personal fulfilment and maternal responsibility. The economic necessity and social pressure which force mothers of young children out to work against their better judgment have been developing steadily over a decade or so and, I believe, are now approaching a serious stage. 
Unfortunately, this Bill does little to come to grips with the core of the problem. The mother who is not employed at all, frequently because she believes it is in her family's interest that it have her full time care, is disadvantaged and in fact often ignored. That mother is largely ignored by this Bill. Much legislation discriminates against the normal 2-parent family and, in addition, places 2 -income families in an advantaged position when compared with those families where the wife and mother stays at home to care for her children. More and more people are starting to realise that in both the long and the short term it is intolerable to have a situation where mother and child are deprived of mother care solely for financial reasons. 
Women's groups, educationalists, social workers and the medical profession have all gone on record in recent times advocating the need to make it possible for mothers to stay at home to care for their young children if they choose to do so, instead of being forced by economic circumstances to go out to work. Pressure of opinion is building up in favour of measures designed not to prevent mothers who, for personal reasons, want to continue their careers, from doing so but aimed at helping those who, solely for economic reasons, feel obliged to leave their children in the care of others so that they can earn a second wage for the family. 
In speaking of the hallmarks of the development of the policies of the Liberal Party of Australia and the new National Country Party of Australia, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently said:  ... to give effect to our concern for those who need our help we would be developing policies to assist mothers forced to work who would sooner be at home looking after their children. 
This will be our endeavour. We are sorry that this Bill does little to provide these mothers with the real assistance they need. 
I was interested to receive in the post yesterday the April edition of the Queensland State Service Union newsletter. In it the Union drew attention to the hardship caused to the single income family by excessive taxation. This burden can be overcome in 2 ways: Either by the mother, irrespective of the ages of her children, going to work, or by significant tax reforms so that the current discrimination against the single income family is removed. The Union suggested a number of measures to remove some of the discrimination. Such suggestions included consideration of voluntary income splitting of the incomes of husband and wife; the restoration of concessional deductions for dependent spouses and dependent children to realistic levels; the restructuring of the tax scale on an overall basis; an increase in child endowment; and the restoration of the deduction for education expenses. These and many other proposals, such as some form of family income maintenance or a mothers' allowance, are deserving of detailed study and appraisal in an attempt to design a policy for the care and education of the pre-school child. 
In addition to reducing the financial pressures which prematurely force women out of work there is a need to help parents to understand and provide for the needs of their young children. Community situations in which parents can, with growing enjoyment and confidence, make best use of their own knowledge and resources in the development of their children must be promoted. Equally important is the design of policies and programs which will enable the mother of young children, while giving primary importance to her role as a mother, to maintain her interests and social contacts in such a way that the combination gives her, taking life as a whole, adequate opportunity for self-realisation, both within and apart from the family. 
It is because of the whole wide range of matters that affect the development of the young child that the Opposition proposed the establishment of a children's bureau under a minister of community development. 
In the long run a Commission such as is proposed by this Bill could tend to become coercive rather than responsive, and unnecessarily restrictive, inflexible and bureaucratic. By contrast a children's bureau, structured as proposed by the Liberal and Country Parties, would provide a central source of input to a committee of ministers who would retain responsibility for the administration of programs within their specific portfolios. It would monitor community trends, assist in evaluating the effectiveness of on-going programs, control multi-disciplinary research, disseminate information to and from the community and provide advisory services to parents and community groups. 
If families are to be given the opportunity of providing adequate home based care for their young children, measures with both direct and indirect consequences must be introduced to ensure that a real choice is available where today no real choice exists. Each family, if it wishes, should be able to find a type of support which has been described by Margaret Mead as the process of 're-surrounding the nuclear family'. Employment is not the only answer to the loneliness sometimes experienced by the home based mother. Social isolation can be overcome by measures designed to create or return community living to suburbs where it has never existed or where it has been depleted. This can be done in a wide variety of ways, including the encouragement of play groups and toddlers groups which provide opportunities for social interaction of mothers as well as their children. Though these groups are based on the principle of self-help, there is a need to stimulate their establishment. The provision of child care centres available for occasional use, the suitability and availability of playgrounds together with the provision of community amenities such as libraries and toy-lending services, can also provide valuable support to a mother engaged in the full-time care of a child. 
But the most significant way in which support could be given to individual families to overcome the financial difficulties that now face them when the mother chooses to provide full-time home based care is to change those laws and practices which now discriminate against families which make this choice. In designing tax and social security programs we have so often been wholly absorbed in achieving an equitable vertical redistribution of income between the wealthy and the needy that we have overlooked the importance of the longitudinal redistribution between the more affluent periods of our lifespan and those where the requirement and demand on family resources are great and, unless they are supplemented, place us in the category of the needy. There will, however, always be those children for whom substitute care must be provided. It is essential that care of an appropriate standard be available to all who require it. The Minister for Education at a seminar held at the Australian National University in 1974 said that he believed that adequate child care centres need to give a child responsive appreciation and predictable warmth of the type that would be available in the home. 
It is to be hoped that in expanding the number of available places in child care centres through local government and other community groups adequate recognition will be given to the role of the private child care centres which to date have provided more than 70 per cent of care facilities. A pluralistic approach should be followed and the Australian Federation of Child Care Associations and its constituent members should be given appropriate recognition and encouragement. 
Though it is most desirable that family day care schemes should be expanded, this should occur only if subject to close supervision and regulation as to the standards of care to be made available in this way. Family day care has its strengths and weaknesses, but care provided by those working in a substitute mother role through the family day care schemes needs to be evaluated. Such schemes should take their place among the whole range of child care facilities and not be seen as a magic formula in looking after children who are away from their parents. 
We would have liked to find in the Bill greater emphasis both on the need for research into the care and education of pre-school children and on the importance of evaluating the effect of those programs which no doubt will be supported by the Commission. In providing support we think that money should be made available through the States as is the case in the fields of primary and secondary education, and that the Bill should include a provision requiring the Commission to work in close consultation and cooperation with the States in the development of comprehensive child care and education programs. Where funds are made available in this way to State and local government bodies and community based charities and non-profit organisations it is to be hoped that the minimum number of strings will be attached. Organisations which have developed a distinctive style in the provision of child care facilities or education for the pre-school child should not, through the imposition of strings, be required to conform to a standard method of providing care or pre-school education, provided of course that the services offered though diverse in character meet acceptable minimum standards. 
It has been made clear that assistance in the first instance will be made available where the greatest needs can be established. Those who through their own efforts demonstrate the willingness to accelerate the date of the provision of facilities ahead of the priorities determined for them must be informed as to whether or not they will receive any assistance. If self-help can be encouraged in the short run, in the long run more resources will be available to those in greatest need. Those who are now willing to raise funds to establish facilities should not be penalised on a dollar for dollar reduction in the Government's support available to them either in the short run or in the long run. The Government and the Commission must make it clear to concerned community groups whether community effort will be rewarded or whether they should sit back and wait until their turn comes for an allocation out of the public purse. 
I conclude by again drawing to the attention of the House the fact that there is no doubt that the widespread provision of early childhood services involves a major piece of social engineering. The manner of this provision will inevitably have profound effects on social practices. These effects may be largely a matter of conjecture. It is important that an attempt be made to predict their outcome in order that the purposes of the community can be fulfilled and not denied. If programs result in the home based care of young children becoming more difficult for a community that would prefer to provide such care, policies and programs must be appraised and redesigned to produce those results which are wanted by the community at large rather than those sought to be imposed by those who would seek to press substitute care of children upon a community which wants mother care to be available for them when mother care can be made available. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause (1), paragraph (b), omit 'to investigate means of securing, and,'. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), paragraph (g), after 'physical', insert social'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
1 ) The functions of the Commission are- 
to ascertain the needs of the Australian community for services for children and to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of those needs, including recommendations in relation to- 
organized means of providing and financing services for children; 
the financial assistance to be provided by Australia to, or to organizations established by, the governments of the States and Territories and local government authorities, and to charitable organizations and other organizations and persons, for the establishment, development and maintenance of means of providing services for children or for research and planning in relation to those services; and 
the education and training of persons involved, or to be involved, in the provision of services for children; 
to investigate means of securing, and, with the approval of the Minister, to arrange for, the representation of Australia or of the Commission on organisations established by the government of any State or Territory or by a local government authority, being organisations that are involved in services for children; 
* * * * 
with the approval of the Minister, to make grants out of the moneys of the Commission, on such conditions, if any, as the Commission determines, of financial assistance of the kind referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (ii). 
* * * * 
In the performance of its function, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and cooperate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia, being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
-I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit paragraph (d). 
The purpose of this amendment is to enable the schemes recommended by the Children's Commission to be funded through that section of the Constitution which enables State programs to be funded. At the present time, the Committee would be aware that in respect of other legislation there is a challenge before the High Court of Australia as to the circumstances in which grants out of Consolidated Revenue pursuant to section 81 of the Constitution can be made direct to bodies within States and to State bodies. The relevant section of the Constitution deals with those revenues and moneys raised by the Commonwealth and requires that they may be appropriated for the purposes of the Commonwealth in the manner and subject to the charges and liabilities imposed by the Constitution. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in his remarks in relation to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  has just asserted strongly that the purpose of this legislation is to finance State programs. If the legislation is to finance State programs, why is section 96 of the Constitution not being used? I remind honourable members that section 96 confers upon this Parliament the power to grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
The Opposition is of the view that because so many of the programs that will be funded under this legislation are State programs they should more properly be funded pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. It would then mean that each year and at other times the Minister would be required to come to the Parliament with State grants legislation which would detail the programs that were to be funded on the recommendation of the Children's Commission. Insofar as there are programs not directly the responsibility of the States but which are programs run by organisations and local government, the relationship of those organisations to their State governments is a very close one. If one looks at the report of the Priorities Review Staff on early childhood services, one can see the deep involvement of the States in child care and pre-school education programs- programs which they directly run and administer and those which they support. This is the reason why the Opposition seeks to urge upon the Government its proposal that this provision of the Bill be deleted so that the financing can be done pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. I am sure that when the Minister replies he will draw attention once again to the remarks that he made in his second reading speech in which he pointed out that the Opposition parties, when in Government, funded schemes for the provision of finance under the Child Care Act by direct grants. We acknowledge that this was the way in which we chose then to fund the schemes. But with the benefit of hindsight we recognise now that it would have been more appropriate if those funds had been made available by section 96 grants. They would not have been subject to the possibility of challenge. They would have taken account of the States' deep involvement in child care and preschool education. Even if we did in that pilot arrangement, limited in its scope, fund it by direct grants pursuant to section 81, we now believe that because of the experience gained in the administration of the Child Care Act, whereby the need for a more comprehensive program has been made manifest, in those circumstances the funding should be direct to the States through section 96 grants thereby involving the States and their administrations in the more comprehensive expansion of facilities available in the pre-school care and education area. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4) after 'Australia' insert 'or of any State or Territory'. 
Sub-clause (4) of clause 5 is an important one. It says: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and co-operate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia, being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
The Opposition wishes to see included here an obligation upon the Commission to the greatest extent practicable to consult and co-operate with departments of the State governments, because it is incorrect to presume that the departments of the Commonwealth Government are the only departments that are responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. Even the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in commenting during the debate on an earlier amendment, said that much of the child care program was being carried out in close consultation with the States. I therefore urge him to demonstrate that that statement is genuine by indicating a willingness to accept this amendment. If the Government in Canberra acknowledges that the program can work only if there is close co-operation and consultation with the States, why is he not prepared to agree to the inclusion of a reference to the States, making it obligatory upon the Commission to conduct those consultations? 
No suggestion is made in the legislation- and certainly not in the comments of the Minister when he talks about the need for cooperationthat the Commonwealth will assume a monopolistic role in the provision either of care facilities or pre-school education for children. If the Commonwealth is not to be in such a monopolistic position and is still going to involve the States which have fulfilled a very real role in providing pre-school care and education why then does the 
Minister not indicate his acceptance of this provision which would impose upon the Commission this obligation? The State role should not be limited in the way in which the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  indicated that it has been limited in some circumstances. It should not be limited to that of a post box. The State governments have a significant role to fulfil in the area of responsibility that is now to be placed on the Children's Commission. The Children's Commission will achieve success in providing an adequate and comprehensive care and preschool education program for the children of Australia only if that Commission is willing to consult with the State governments. It would amaze me if the Minister declined to accept this amendment, which seeks to impose upon the Commission that obligation- an obligation to consult and co-operate with State governments and State government departments which already are working in the field of child care and pre-school education. 
-There are just 2 matters that I would like to raise with regard to the latter part of the Bill. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in concluding the debate, may be prepared to give some indication as to his views on these questions. Firstly, there are no guidelines in the Bill as to the appointment of members of the Commission. The Opposition wonders whether the Minister is in a position to indicate the criteria that he will use in selecting members of the Commission. It has been suggested by some that an effort should be made to ensure that the Commission should include people from various areas of particular interest, such as people experienced in teaching. I hope that the Minister will be able to inform the House what he has in mind with regard to the composition of the Commission. 
The final matter arises out of what was said by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  when he drew my attention and the attention of the House to the fact that clause 3 1 of the Bill provides for the setting up of State advisory boards. I was quite aware of that provision. But I would like the Minister to tell me whether or not it is intended that there will be representatives or nominees of the State governments, who have this large responsibility already in matters relating to child care and pre-school education, on the State advisory boards. If the Minister is not prepared to indicate that there will be such representation to ensure that the views and programs of State government departments are put in detail before those advisory boards, the arguments of the honourable member for Adelaide are completely demolished and the concern that I expressed is well justified. 
I move circulated amendment No. 23 which relates in particular to clause 14, sub-clause (6). This sub-clause at present states: 
Where it appears from an application for dissolution of a marriage that the parties have been married for less than 2 years preceding the date of the filing of the application, the court shall not hear the proceedings unless the court is satisfied that- (a) the parties have considered a reconciliation. . . 
The amendment I propose will require the parties, where there is a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 16 years, to undergo the same reconciliation procedures as are provided for in those cases where the marriage has been in existence for only a short time. I have supported the reforms in this Bill. I have supported the measure to remove fault. But I am concerned to see that families are strengthened and that the interests of children are protected. Under clause 48 as it has now been adopted, a legal fiction has been introduced. That is, the marriage is dissolved if there has been a 12-month separation, not if there has been irretrievable breakdown. A 12-month separation is deemed to be an irretrievable breakdown, unless there is an intervention by one party who indicates to the court that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. That initiative must be taken by the other party to the marriage. There is no opportunity for representation of the children in determining whether or not the marriage should be dissolved. In clause 65 of the Bill opportunity is given for children to be represented only after the marriage has been dissolved. Clause 65 provides that, where, in proceedings with respect to the custody, guardianship or maintenance of, or access to, a child of a marriage, it appears to the court that the child ought to be separately represented, that child can be represented, but that is only in circumstances in which it is assumed that the marriage is to be dissolved. Very often, where the parties in fact separate, they do so because there is a breakdown in communication between man and woman, and very often the communication has very little opportunity to be reinstated unless there is some machinery whereby that communication can be re-established. Where the parties have no children the importance of the reestablishment of that communication is not so significant; it is a matter of the bilateral relations between those parties. But where there are children it is not a unilateral matter and it is not a bilateral matter; it is a matter of multilateral relations. I do not believe that this Bill as now drafted goes far enough in giving to children those opportunities to have their parents live together if communication can be re-established. 
In urging this amendment I do not intend to suggest that steps should be taken to force people to live together in circumstances in which they are unhappy and their children are unhappier. Much has been said about the concern for children living in unhappy circumstances. If the marriage has irretrievably broken down, it should be dissolved; but it should not be presumed that the breakdown is irretrievable, particularly where there are children, unless every effort has been made to restore communication so that the children can have the opportunity to live in a stable, happy, 2-parent family. Therefore, if this amendment is accepted and it saves but a few marriages, it will have been worth while. I recognise that it involves counselling a large number of families; but the price involved in providing that counselling for a large number of families, if it gives a happy family life in a 2-parent situation for a significant number of children, is worth paying. In the interests of the children affected by unhappy marriages, I urge that this amendment be accepted. 
-The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  who has just resumed her seat, challenged the Opposition to write down certain things and related her remarks in particular to the subject of the means test. I wish to quote from the joint policy document prepared by the Opposition. It reads: 
The removal of the means test by 1 975 for all persons over 65 years of age to alleviate inequalities and help all our elderly citizens. 
We wrote it down. We would have carried it out if we had been given the opportunity to do so. The resolution before the House is: 
That, in the opinion of this House, restrictions upon the granting of supplementary assistance to pensioners are too severe. 
The honourable member for Henty talked about the amount of supplementary assistance to those who are likely enough to qualify for it. The amount that they are receiving is falling rapidly in value because of the inflation caused by this Government. From time to time we hear the Labor Party seeking to pass the buck of responsibility for inflation. First, the Labor Party seeks to blame its predecessors in Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government; secondly, it seeks to justify its action upon the basis that inflation is imported; and today the honourable member for Henty says that responsibility for inflation rests with the States. What nonsense! 
I suggest the honourabe member looks at the policies of her own Government to see how its policies have caused inflation to rise from 4.5 per cent per annum to 17.8 per cent per annum. At one stage inflation was running at a rate of 20 per cent per annum and some figures which are currently available indicate that we can expect it to be running at the rate of 30 per cent if the present Government's policies are allowed to continue. If that rate of inflation continues those people who are most in need will be hurt the most. The people who are most in need are those who today qualify for supplementary assistance and those who deserve to qualify for supplementary assistance. 
The Opposition, in its policy speech last year, said that it would do 2 things in this regard; it said, firstly, that it would raise the level of supplementary assistance. But it is nonsense today to talk abot raising it in terms of absolute figures; one needs to look at it in real terms. With the rate of inflation going on as it is, the increase in supplementary assistance of $6 last year necessarily has to be reviewed so that the real benefit so supplementary assistance makes a meaningful contribution to the household income of those pensioners who deserve to receive it. 
I turn to the question of the means test that applies to supplementary assistance. In a number of areas the means test for the granting of the pension as a whole has been abolished, but nothing has been done with regard to the alleviation of the means test as it applies to those eligible for supplementary assistance. The means test has its first impact on a single age or widow pensioner who has $920 in the bank or who has $400 in the bank and an income of $ 1 a week. What sort of job would you be doing to receive an income of $1 a week? As a result, those persons who are today eligible for supplementary assistance cannot add further to their income by taking a small part-time job. Organisations managing group housing provided under the Aged Persons Homes Act might be willing to make available part-time work, such as watering the lawns, to those who want to do something useful in the area in which they live. In doing that useful job, those people are deserving of some payment. If those people receive over $1 a week for such a task they lose, on a $1 for $1 basis, the supplementary assistance to which they are entitled. 
The Interim Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, the Henderson report, deals with this area of poverty and states that people who pay rent are a class of persons in great need. The report contains a recommendation for an increase in supplementary assistance but the Commission also recommended a fundamental structural change in the basis upon which the supplementary assistance is paid. The report contains the following recommendation: 
The Commission therefore recommends that the separate means test on supplementary assistance be amended. Instead, full supplementary assistance should be paid to a pensioner up to the point at which his means as assessed are $16 less than the point at which the pension begins to be reduced. Supplementary assistance should then be reduced by 50 cents for each $1 of extra income until it ceases to be paid at a point of maximum income for the receipt of a full pension. 
In spite of that recommendation, the Government has done nothing to recognise the fundamental basis upon which that Commission presented its recommendations. The basis was that the people entitled to supplementary assistance should be given some incentive to earn more or save more. The means test operates as if it were a $1 for $1 tax; a tax of 100c for every $1 these people seek to earn. This not only affects those who are age pensioners; it also has a particular bearing on many families where the children of the family are supported by a widow. 
If one looks at the statistics one finds that a higher percentage of widow pensioners are entitled now, under the very stringent provisions of the means test, to supplementary assistance. Many of those widows, for their own good- to enable them to have contact with other people as well as for the financial benefit it provides for their children- want to seek part-time employment. But if they go out and earn more than a very small amount, in 1975 dollars- an amount which is in real terms is far smaller today than it was two or three years ago and its value is rapidly declining- those widow pensioners find that for every $1 they earn they are taxed, as it were, $1 by way of their supplementary assistance entitlement being correspondingly reduced. 
An urgent need exists for a review of the restrictions that are now imposed upon the terms and conditions under which supplementary assistance is available. People should be encouraged to provide for themselves by saving. People should be encouraged to do more for their families and for themselves by working either part-time or full time. If they are in need and qualify for assistance under the means test that now operates, that test should be in a form that enables them to supplement their income- to do better for themselves. Instead, the means test operates as a ceiling limit. Widow or age pensioners who qualify now for supplementary assistance are discouraged from supplementing their income. They cannot do better for themselves. The means test operates as a barrier through which, in many circumstances, they are unable to pass. People should not be kept in poverty by a social security mechanism that has got out of date as a consequence, largely, of the economic mismanagement of this Government. The Opposition has stated in its policy that it will review this means test. It has stated that it will seek to encourage people to provide more for themselves to give them greater incentive to increase their incomes, to do more for their children if they are widows, and to do more for themselves if they are single or married age pensioners. They should be given this encouragement. The Opposition calls upon Government supporters to support this motion, which reads: 
That, in the opinion of this House, restrictions upon the granting of supplementary assistance to pensioners are too severe. 
To vote for that motion is to recognise the fundamental thesis behind the recommendations of the Henderson Committee report on this topic. We call upon supporters of the Government to demonstrate whether they, along with the Opposition, now recognise that there is an urgent need to liberalise this all-too-severe means test on those eligible for supplementary assistance. 
-This clause is designed to provide - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
-In this debate the House is considering the States Grants (Universities) Bill and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. Those Bills are similar in kind. The former- the one dealing with universitiesprovides for an additional $104m to be made available in respect of the 1973-75 triennium to universities and affiliated residential colleges. The latter provides for an additional $83m to be made available in respect of the 1973-75 triennium to colleges of advanced education and approved non-government teachers colleges. At first sight it may appear to the House that we have here a substantial subvention of additional funds in respect of the tertiary level of education, but nothing is further from the truth. All that this legislation does- with the exception of some minor programs which, though significant in themselves, are relatively small in import when taken as a part of the whole- is simply bring up to date in dollar terms the real support that was promised to the universities and the colleges of advanced education at the commencement of this triennium. The amounts have been adjusted only until 31 December 1974. 
In making those adjustments account has been taken of changing costs in operating colleges of advanced education and universities, and the amounts provided for the years 1974 and 1975 have been varied. It is noteworthy that the amounts show a rapid increase in money terms. If we look at the figures applicable for the 1974 and 1975 years, after all adjustments had been made up to the end of 1973 when the figures were varied to take account of the Commonwealth taking over the total responsibility for tertiary education, we find that at that time the program in respect of universities for the 1974 year was forecast at $266,537,000, and for 1975 it was forecast at $291,252,000. Last year a similar Bill increased the provision for 1974 by 6.9 per cent, and for 1975 by 7.4 per cent. This year these Bills increase the amounts by a further 7.8 per cent in respect of the 1974 year, and by a massive 21 per cent for the 1975 year. I say massive' because it is a large increase in money terms. There is no change in real terms. 
All these Bills do is demonstrate how in this field, as in many others, the Government is on a treadwheel of inflation which causes it to introduce Bills which need to vary the money value of the support given, without changing the real value. So often across the whole range of this Government's support for various programs, whether they are in the field of education or in other fields, we hear spokesmen and apologists for the Labor Government claiming substantial increases in support of those programs. The increases referred to are increases in money terms, and money terms alone. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in his second reading speech, did not on this occasion seek to disguise the fact that all this Bill was doing was taking account of the inflationary pressures on the budgets of universities and colleges of advanced education. He said to the House that as a consequence of the application of the various indices used to determine the amount that is now appropriate to preserve the real value of the grants approved at the beginning of the triennium, all this Bill was doing was adjusting to take account of inflation. 
It is interesting to note, too, that the problem of inflation was referred to by the Australian Universities Commission in its fifth report. It drew attention to the difficulties that are faced by universities. No doubt the Commission on Advanced Education would have had similar views on the difficulties of the system of triennial financing in times of inflation. The way in which this problem has been handled has been for the various commissions to indicate their recom.medations in money terms applicable to a particular period- normally the year immediately preceding the first year of the triennium. Although on occasions they build in an inflation factor, the amount of the inflation factor so built in is of very small consequence because the commissions have adopted the view that each year the amounts applicable to the 3 periods in the triennium should be reviewed in the light of changing circumstances. 
The amounts approved for expenditure are raised by States grants legislation of the type that we are now considering. Previously, of course, the Commonwealth did not make these major changes in the amounts available. It was left to the universities and to the States. But now that the Commonwealth has taken full responsibility for the financing of universities and colleges of advanced education, and by the abolition of fees has removed the mechanism that they then used in order to cope with the inflationary pressures on their cost structures, this Government has recognised the need for regular review of the amounts provided to these bodies from time to time. 
It is interesting to note too that the adjustments that are being made by this Bill relate only to the period ended 3 1 December 1974. So these Bills are designed to give approval to the amounts that will enable these bodies to fund expenditure already outlaid in respect of the 1974 year. They are also in the form of an authorisation of anticipated expenditure based upon the figures applicable as at 31 December 1974. So before the trienniumn is over there will be further Bills of this nature to authorise additional funds to be made available to universities and colleges of advanced education with particular reference to the 1975 year, because there will be the additional costs that those bodies so funded will have to meet as a consequence of wage and salary increases and other cost rises. 
The adjustments that have been made in this Bill are as a consequence of the application of a series of indices which the Universities Commission uses and which the Commission dealing with colleges of advanced education also adopts. There are 3 components which have been recognised. Firstly, there is a component that relates to academic salaries; secondly, there is another component dealing with non-academic salaries and wages, and thirdly, there is an element dealing with non salary costs. The index that is applied differs accordingly to the category applicable. In the case of academic salaries, since 1964 supplementary grants have been provided to the universities to reimburse them for the cost increases in academic salaries by governments on the recommendation of special inquiries established by the Australian Government. It is understood that this process continues. 
In the case of non academic salaries, the index used is one based upon movements in a national index that relates to the salaries of positions of a similar type and nature in the Australian Public Service. The non-salary costs are determined by a series of indices supplies by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and university sources dealing with certain wages, others dealing with the costs of building construction and another dealing with costs relating to equipment. 
It is interesting to note also that in relation to academic salaries, using as a base year the December quarter of 1971 as 100, the increase up to 31 December 1974 is of the order of 158.5. In the case of non-academic salaries, the increase is even higher- from 100 to 161.6. However, non-salary costs have not escalated as much, the rise being only from 100 to 131.5. In the case of equipment, the rise has been from 100 to 121.9. In building costs, as one might expect, the increase has been from 102.7 to 155. 1. All these figures indicate and are evidence of the massive degree of inflation that is taking place in the Australian economy at present. As a consequence, it becomes necessary for the Government from time to time, in order to maintain the existing programs in the field of tertiary education, to seek additional money. The public should not be misled into thinking for one moment that an additional cent in real terms is being spent on education. 
On previous occasions, when these sorts of increases arose it often was suggested that the mechanism was used as a means of transferring resources from the States to the Commonwealth Government, because previously the States or the universities themselves were obligated to make up the difference. As wages and salaries were raised, so the liabilities of the States and the universities themselves were increased. But the principal beneficiary, as a result of the progressive tax rate scale, was the Commonwealth Government. That process is still continuing, but in a different way. As inflation has continued, as a result of the progressive tax rate scale all those who will benefit from the increased salaries that will be paid as a consequence of the allocation of these funds will find not only that their marginal rate of tax will increase but also that the average rate of tax that they pay on their total income will increase. So, in real terms, the funds available on a post-tax basis to those who will benefit directly or indirectly because of the ability of universities and colleges of advanced education to pay higher salaries in fact will mean that those persons will find that they are not any better off and in many instances are worse off. 
I mentioned that the Bills make provision for some interesting and, in themselves, significant additions. Again I refer to the fact that, although they are conditions, taken as part of the whole they are very small in percentage terms. However, I should mention the principle ones amongst them. There are provisions in the Bills for the further funding of the Deakin University at Geelong, for the establishment of a central office of the State College of Victoria, for the establishment of diploma courses in welfare studies at one or two colleges of advanced education and for the further expansion of the study centre of the Albury-Wodonga centre of the Riverina College of Advanced Education. These are but small additions in Bills which are designed primarily to provide funds simply because the estimates originally contained in the legislation that was passed some 12 months ago again have been proven to be inapplicable because inflation continues to rage in Australia. 
As inflation moves ahead more quickly the universities and colleges of advanced education continue to be disadvantaged to some degree because of the time lag in die approval of the additional funds. Tonight the House is considering Bills which approve funds in respect of the year ended 31 December 1974. In view of the accelerating rate of inflation and the additional amount that has to be provided by this sort of legislation which authorises payments to the universities and colleges of advanced education, one wonders how in the meantime they have financed the short fall. It may well be that they have borrowed money or had some form of advance in terms of receiving this year some 1975 money which they have used to pay 1974 liabilities. One cannot help but wonder whether in some circumstances the universities and colleges have been forced to maintain an establishment under strength. As has occurred on previous occasions, have they not filled positions that are part of their establishment as recognised by the Universities Commission and the Commission on Colleges of Advanced Education? Have they failed to fill them because funds would not become available? 
-The Minister for Education again interjects. Of course it is recognised that the salaries are adjusted by the appropriate awards, but in the past, universities and colleges which have not had the funds to meet the increased salaries for the whole of their staff, on occasions have kept their staff at lower levels than the recognised establishment or the establishment approved by the Universities Commission. Apparently this is a tendency which is continuing. Here, towards the end of May 1975, substantial sums of money are being approved in respect of expenditure incurred by the universities for the year ended 3 1 December 1 974. 
The question I wish to ask is: Whilst inflation continues and the time lag causes the univeristies to run up excessive liabilities in respect of commitments that they must meet because the awards are determined by tribunals that obligate the universities to pay higher salaries, how are the universities funding the shortfall? Are they, in fact, funding it by cutting down on staff appointments, or are they funding it through overdraft facilities? If so, is there provision in the legislation which enables the interest liabilities of the university to be covered by support from the Commonwealth Government which itself is largely responsible for the rapid escalation of costs within the university field. This is a matter which could be of serious concern to the adequacy of the staffing of universities, whether it be in the field of academic staff or in other aspects of university or college of advanced education work. 
So, whilst the Opposition supports this legislation, it regrets that because of inflation the amounts contained in these Bills are necessarily so high. We support the concept that the real level of university and college of advanced education provision should be maintained. We regret that we have so frequently to support legislation approving more printed paper money to be made available- money that is being made available simply because it is necessary to do so to enable these insititutions to carry on their existing services. It is not a question of providing additional funds, it is a matter in this legislation, of simply giving the universities and colleges of advanced education sufficient funds with which to carry on. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  made an interesting analogy in his second reading speech in relation to the Bill dealing with State grants for Universities, when he said:   the Bill constitutes the equivalent of a. Supply measure for the universities to enable them to sustain their operations. 
This is a rather unusual use of the term 'Supply measure'. Normally a Supply measure, anticipates the future and assumes that the requirements for the future will be similar to those for the period immediately preceding. However, this Bill does more than that. It provides funds for the shortfall in 1974. That is something past and gone. So the Bill is not anticipating the future at all. Insofar as this is a Supply Bill which is authorising the payment of funds in respect of the year ended 3 1 December 1975, it is doing so upon the basis of the costs as calculated in 1974. There is no attempt to calculate the cost of increased salaries and wages which have been awarded so far this year and which will be awarded during the remainder of this year. If the present inflation rate continues we could expect later this year or early next year the introduction of Bills to lift again the provision by amounts of the order of the percentages to which I referred earlier to take account simply of the increased costs without providing an additional cent in real worth for our universities and colleges of advanced education. 

 -Mr Chairman, I want to raise a matter- 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
The functions of the Commission are- 
to furnish advice to the Minister, either of its own motion or upon request made to it by the Minister, on matters relating to the national estate, including advice relating to- 
action to conserve, improve and present the national estate; 
expenditure by Australia for the conservation, improvement and presentation of the national estate; and 
the grant of financial or other assistance by Australia to the States, local governing bodies and other organizations or persons for the conservation, improvement or presentation of the national estate; 
to encourage public interest in, and understanding of, issues relevant to the national estate; 
to identify places included in the national estate and to prepare a register of those places in accordance with Part IV; 
to furnish advice and reports in accordance with Part V; 
to further training and education in fields related to the conservation, improvement and presentation of the national estate; 
to make arrangements for the administration and control of places included in the national estate that are given or bequeathed to the Commission; and 
to organize and engage in research and investigation necessary for the performance of its other functions. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. In a paper entitled 'Urban and Regional Development 1974-75 ', circulated by the Minister, it was stated: 
The best available estimates of the implications of present plans not allowing for price changes are that increases in 1975-76 may be of the order of $206m. . . 
That would be 47 per cent, in real terms, above the level of expenditure in 1974-75. Does the Minister still believe that the implications of this year's programs will require, in the coming financial year, an increase in expenditure in real terms of this percentage? If so, will the necessary funds be available to his Department? If not, which programs does he propose to cut? 
I want to speak briefly to clause 9 which states in part that the Commission may do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done in connection with the performance of its functions. In its recent report the Interim Committee on the National Estate said: 
Wherever possible the Interim Committee tried to deal with urgent issues first. 
It also reported that it was asked to make recommendations on a wide range of crisis issues. The planning of our future will be facilitated by this Bill. It will enable us by using adequate foresight to identify the kind of development that is likely to take place. Those features of our environment likely to come under threat can be identified. Then through this anticipation it should be possible for us to secure the heritage assets of the nation at prices more reasonable than if action is taken in a panic atmosphere. Crisis preservation on an ad hoc basis will not enable us to save enough of the best of our environment. At the same time, resources should not be allocated to the preservation of assets which in the foreseeable future are not under immediate threat, especially if the allocation of those resources to assets that are not threatened could be better used to save those that are under critical threat. 
The Interim Committee claims that in most instances in which it was called upon to make recommendations on crisis issues it was able to arrange or recommend a solution. In its report it instances its intervention in the issue concerned with the Palace Hotel in Perth, but it makes no reference to those issues to which no solution was found. As the Interim Committee drew attention in other parts of its report to the importance of public involvement, it is somewhat surprising that it failed to list those items that came before it as crisis issues which it did not succeed in solving. Is it to be implied that this failure to list the items means that those items which were considered are now beyond redemption or is there work still to be done? If there is something that can still be done one would have expected the Committee to have drawn to public attention the issues about which there was still some hope if the public attention could be properly directed to their preservation. I would hope that the Heritage Commission in its report would identify crisis issues on which it has found a solution and also those on which it has failed to find a solution. 
The report of the Interim Committee contains a summary of its 1974-75 National Estate program but this program includes no allocation of funds to enable a buffer zone to be expanded in the area of scientific significance at Hallett Cove in South Australia, nor is any money provided for the proper management and control of the area which is now being preserved. When one looks at the National Estate program as it applies to South Australia one finds that the South Australian Minister and the Australian Government Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  have said: 
It is time for us to act to save what remains unspoiled of our coastline and bush . . . 
Yet no money was made available for Hallett Cove. All those assets in respect of which money was provided are worthy of preservation; but how many assets like Hallett Cove are under immediate threat? Many of them are in fact under State Government ownership. Is it suggested that without the money which was provided this year to restore Port Glanville, Old Government House at Belair, Dingley Dell at Port McDonnell and the Old Attorney-General's building the State Government would allow these priceless elements of our national heritage to be lost? In view of the fact that the State Government has been so heavily supported in these projects, why cannot it allocate additional funds for the preservation of Hallett Cove? Or has it made a positive decision that no more land necessary to provide a buffer zone is worth saving? Has it in the past entered agreements, reached understandings and accepted obligations which now prevent it from taking action to preserve an expanded buffer zone? Hallett Cove was mentioned in the Hope Committee report. It was dealt with in the Jordan report dealing with the environment in South Australia in which it was described in this way: 
Certain areas of the coast require conservation. Hallett Cove, the land immediately behind and north of the Cove, is an area with considerable scientific, anthropological and geological interest. 
This area is of great national significance and both the Minister for Environment and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who are sitting at the table, have been involved in this issue. I think they would recognise that it is proper to describe Hallett Cove as unique, as a classroom, as a treasure trove rich in history, in rocks and in many other respects. When the Minister for Environment was in Adelaide in 1974 he said that it was the Australian Government's responsibility to preserve areas of significance at Hallett Cove, south of Adelaide. What has the Australian Government yet done to preserve additional areas beyond that which was under preservation at the time the Minister came to South Australia? The Minister for Urban and Regional Development, when in Adelaide in 1974, talking of the area of scientific interest at Hallett Cove said: 
I agree with you that this land should be preserved as part of the National Estate. 
Then, when announcing the National Estate funds for South Australia, he said: 
It is time for us to act to save what remains unspoiled of our coastline and our bush. 
Then, more recently, he visited South Australia and went to Hallett Cove. He appointed an independent consultant to examine the need to preserve further land to provide an adequate buffer zone. He promised an outcome from that examination by the end of this month. When will the report be available and what will be done to preserve additional land? It is interesting to note that the Minister, after visiting Hallett Cove, said: 
I was shocked by the scarring of developers, particularly in the area to the east and to the  coastscape.  I really feel that this is a matter that goes beyond National Estate funds, even if only trying to extend the buffer zone. I do not know if I shall be successful in utilising the alternative funds. I have in mind to preserve the buffer zone and the  coastscape 
Has the Minister succeeded in obtaining funds to preserve an adequate buffer zone so that this unique geological feature in South Australia- a science laboratory in its own right- can be preserved, or will we go on spending more money in crisis circumstances, because the longer this is left, the more expensive it will become? I urge the Minister to look into this matter, to get his priorities right and to save that which can be saved now while balancing this with the need to preserve sufficient resources for the acquisition and protection of assets which are coming under threat and deferring to future Budgets the allocation of resources to assets which are not, at this stage, under any threat at all. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wanted to ask the Minister for Education whether he would be prepared to move that the report that he tabled be noted so that this House could be given an opportunity to discuss a report of considerable significance. 
-We have just heard an impassioned and blustery speech by a Minister who shortly hopes to be the Minister for Defence. He came in here tonight seeking to prove himself. These amendments were put forward in this House. They were rejected by this House but were reintroduced into the Senate and accepted. It is necessary that we examine the substance of the amendments. For the Minister to suggest that the programs approved are contingent upon the passage of this legislation is utter nonsense. The programs were examined and recommended by an Interim Committee. They could have been funded under legislation or funded under a program that depended upon that Interim Committee. 
The legislation that we are now examining is to establish a permanent Children 's Commission so that in the years ahead funding of these programs can be ordered under an established piece of legislation. But to suggest that those programs that have been approved during the last several months are contingent upon this Bill is totally incorrect. Having put that part of the record straight, let us look at this legislation in the light of the fact that it is to establish a permanent structure under which child care and pre-school education programs are to be funded. Although one cannot but notice the Minister's heavy concentration on child care programs- almost to the exclusion of any reference to pre-school education as has been pointed out in the debates both in this House and in the Senate- the Opposition sees the care of the pre-school child in a comprehensive way. We are concerned for the complete well-being of the child in the family context, in the child care centre and in the general care role as well as, importantly, in the area of that child 's education. 
But the two specific amendments that the Senate asked for were amendments related to the mechanisms to be used. We in the Opposition would, when coming to government, approach this whole problem of the provision of child care and pre-school education in a way significantly different from the way inherent in the Government's program. We have indicated our attitudes in debates both in this House and in the Senate. We do not, however, wish on this occasion to delay the passage of this legislation. We do, however, point out that we believe that these amendments should have been made but that if the Government is not accepting them we will not oppose the resolution moved by the Minister. We want to point out the reasons why we proposed the amendments and why we believe that those amendments, if not included in the legislation at this stage, should be examined very closely in the future. 
First, let us look at the amendment which sought to guarantee the consultative process with State governments. Many Ministers of the present Government talk about co-operative federalism but when it comes to the point, and when there is a piece of legislation into which the Opposition seeks to see written a provision that will ensure that that co-operation takes place, this centralist Government very often does as it has done on this occasion, and refuses to accept an amendment put forward by the Opposition. The Minister gives his assurance that he will continue the consultative process. If he is so sure about his assurance, why is he unprepared to have this provision written into the legislation: That consultation takes place between the Children's Commission and departments of the Commonwealth Government as well as departments and governments of the States? He says he will do it. Why not write it into the legislation? We sought to write it in- the Senate asked that it be written in- yet the Minister, professing to co-operate on the one hand, and on the other hand is unwilling to include in the formal structure of the Children's Commission a provision that requires it to consult with the States. 
The second aspect of this legislation deals with the method of funding. The Minister spoke as if it were not possible for a program of this type to be funded by means of section 96 of the Constitution. He talked as if each individual proposal would need to come before this Parliament. Of course the Opposition supports the wide-ranging program that the Interim Commission has put forward and wishes to see that program expanded and made more comprehensive. But there is no need to finance that program by means of section 81 of the Constitution. It can equally well be done by section 96. 1 seem to recall,  Mr Chairman,  that earlier this week the House debated the States Grants (Universities) Bill. Under that Bill, by means of section 96 of the Constitution, a massive universities program is funded. Then we had a similar piece of legislation dealing with the colleges of advanced education. 
There are other programs, extensive and wideranging, where the particular proposals in many instances are as small in terms of dollar value as some of those indicated by the Minister where, under a section 96 proposal, those programs can be funded by legislation passed by this Parliament. The Opposition urged that, if the program was to be done in co-operation with the States, their role in the provision of child care and preschool education facilities be recognised. We urged that, by the mechanism of section 96 which ensures that the States would be involved in the process of the funding ofthe programs, a better integration would be achieved between those programs proposed by the Interim Committee and, in the future, by the Children's Commission itself, than would be the case if the Commonwealth simply funded programs direct and did not involve the States in the way that they would necessarily be involved by the application of grants under section 96 of the Constitution. 
Therefore,  Mr Chairman,  I want to make it clear to honourable members that, whilst we will not hold up this legislation, as we wish to see the Government's program confirmed in legislation, we want to- point out that, on coming to government, we will review the whole method whereby the Australian Government delivers its child care and pre-school education program. We will seek a means whereby it can be made comprehensive and whereby there can be meaningful cooperation between the Australian Government, the State governments, local government and community groups. We are as much concerned to involve community groups and local government and State governments as the Minister claimed that he was to involve community groups. You can be assured,  Mr Chairman,  that when we look at the program on coming to government we will devise a mechanism to provide for a more meaningful involvement of the people concerned at all levels and all forms of government. 
At this stage in the debate it is not appropriate to canvass the full purposes of the Commission, but it is necessary that we point out the reasons why we put forward the amendments in the original debate; why they were carried in the Senate and now, at this stage, to indicate the reasons why we do not wish to hold up the passage of the legislation. 
-This legislation is straightforward, and the Opposition at this stage indicates its support for it. The Bill is designed to do 2 things: Firstly, it proposes to include as an item of funding a category of flood mitigation. The Schedule to the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, which this Bill seeks to amend, authorises expenditure on 5 types of program. The first category is urban expansion and redevelopment, which may include sewerage and water supply. The second is area improvement, being urban and regional improvement and rehabilitation. The third is sewerage. The fourth is water supply. The fifth is restoration, preservation and improvement of landscapes and buildings of special significance. This Bill proposes to add a sixth item, namely flood mitigation, and to provide in the current year a sum of $450,000 for that purpose. It is to be noted that in the future the amounts of expenditure to be allocated to each of those heads will be dealt with as a budgetary item rather than by means of a financial assistance Bill. 
We are told by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  that the purpose of including the head of flood mitigation is to enable expenditure on flood mitigation works in Brisbane. It should be pointed out, though, that the amount of money involved on this occasion will enable only a relatively small amount of work to be carried out in mitigating the sort of circumstances that caused the disastrous floods that occurred in Brisbane early last year. The way in which the Minister presented his second reading speech created the impression that this contribution would do a great deal in respect of flood mitigation work in Brisbane. The Opposition points out that all it will do is make some very small beginnings. It will enable some work to be done on the Enoggera Creek Dam- to raise the height of the weir there by some 20 feet -and also will enable some further flood mitigation work to be carried out in that area. 
The Minister has indicated that further sums of money will be made available in future years. The great need in the Brisbane area, of course, will be for an examination to be made of the priority that should be given to the construction of the Wivenhoe Dam. One of the difficulties that will be faced in making that decision will be the problem of allocating priorities. This dam will be needed for 2 purposes: Firstly, to provide domestic water supply for the city of Brisbane and, secondly, to act as a means of mitigating the flood danger that Brisbane may face in the future. When one builds a dam for flood mitigation purposes, of course, one builds it on the basis that it will be kept partially empty so that it can cope with the sort of flood that Brisbane experienced last year. But this is always a problem because the responsibility of keeping a dam partially empty competes with the demands of those who want to see a more adequate domestic water supply for a city such as Brisbane. Therefore, at this stage I want to draw attention to the difficulties in allocation of priority and urge that this matter be carefully examined in relation to Brisbane and other areas where it is necessary that flood mitigation work be carried out. 
It might be said that the most effective measure for flood mitigation is not to build in areas where there is any real danger of flooding. Of course, one must recognise that in cities and towns that have already been built in places where a danger exists of flooding, flood mitigation work must be carried out. It is to be hoped that in the planning and designing of new cities and the expansion of our existing cities, proper account will be taken of the risks of flooding in certain areas. It is to be hoped that development will take other directions so that the resources that are today in some areas- taking the longterm view- in effect necessarily being misallocated can do more to provide better urban areas for people than is now achieved by having to reduce the danger that established areas face as a consequence of some earlier mistaken decisions as to their location. 
A provision in the Bill will enable the Minister and the Department to allocate funds in respect of other cities. One might well ask: How much is now contemplated as being needed for flood mitigation purposes in the development of Albury-Wodonga? I would hope that the point I have just been making will be given some attention and that a careful examination will be made of the proposed development works to ensure that they are not in areas that have any serious risk of flooding. To build new urban areas on locations which could be subject to flooding is only to demand expenditure in the future to reduce that risk. Albury-Wodonga is not a place, as the Minister would well know, that is free from flooding. Only late last year the Hume Highway in Albury was cut. In the city of Wagga, not far away, substantial areas of its urban districts were seriously flooded. No doubt the provision in the Bill enabling the allocation of funds for this purpose will now enable the Minister and the Department to look at other cities which have at present developed areas that are subject to flooding. 
A further difficulty that arises in looking at the question of the allocation of resources for flood mitigation purposes is where to draw the line. When is a flood a natural disaster and when does it involve something which should be regarded as normal expenditure by way of provision in the establishment of that urban area? I am sure that this will cause some difficulties in definition in the future as the extent to which the flood mitigation work to be carried out under financial provisions of this legislation is examined. 
The other objective that this Bill seeks to achieve is to vary the terms under which moneys can be made available to the States by way of loans. Under the present legislation loans for sewerage purposes can be on terms not in excess of 40 years for repayment, and for other works on terms not in excess of 30 years for repayment. This Bill seeks to remove that limitation and to enable loans to be made for such period as is negotiated from time to time. It is noted by the Opposition that the Act now requires the Minister to table any agreements he enters into. At the present time, the Parliament and the country know that the Minister cannot enter into agreements whereby the term of the loan is for a period in excess of those periods which I have mentioned. It is to be hoped that if the Minister plans to change the policy as to the terms of loans he will do so in a way which will enable the Parliament to comment on and understand the implications of such a change in policy. It is true that the Minister can table the agreement but, of course, that is after the event. Comment can be made on future agreements but not concerning the agreement that is currently being tabled. 
We recognise, however, the need to change the law to provide the Minister with greater flexibility. The need arose in a special way. The House is well aware of the developments that are taking place in Albury-Wodonga. When the first Act of Parliament was passed in respect of funding development in the Albury-Wodonga area provision was contained in that legislation that also limited the period over which the capital funds could be repaid but when the AlburyWodonga agreement was entered into there was a provision in that agreement signed by the governments of Victoria and New South Wales and the Australian Government whereby in the event that the funds of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation were insufficient to enable it to repay the capital sums when they became due the amount then due could be tacked on at the end of the loan period. Legal doubts were expressed as to whether such a roll-over provision was in infringement of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act which this Bill now seeks to amend, the suggestion being that the effect of the agreement entered into with the States enabled the loan to be repayable over a period of more than 40 years in respect of sewerage works and in other cases over a period of more than 30 years. So this Bill seeks to remove that limitation in respect of the future. 
The Bill also contains a special provision relating to the Albury-Wodonga assistance legislation for advances made in respect of the current financial year so as to exempt them specifically from doubts that may have arisen about the legislation as it reads at present, so that those advances can be rolled over in the event of the receipts of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation being insufficient to meet liabilities as they arise. I note that the Minister is not suggesting that the original AlburyWodonga Development (Financial Assistance) Act be amended. I understand that the reason for this is that the amounts of money involved are relatively so small that neither of the States, New South Wales and Victoria, is concerned about its ability to repay. I am also informed that in a number of the agreements entered into in respect of loans made out of the $25 8m that was made available under the Urban and Regional 
Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974, where there is a provision for the tacking on of an amount payable at the end of the loan period when payment cannot be made on the due date, there is a special provision which it is hoped will overcome the legal doubts that have arisen. As to the future, of course, the proposal in the Bill now before the House should remedy any defects and remove any doubts, thereby enabling the Minister to enter into an agreement of the sort entered into in respect of Albury-Wodonga. 
I shall conclude with regard to this point by emphasising again the request I made earlier that, in the event of there being a substantial change in lending policies so far as the terms of loans are concerned, the Minister will make an announcement and indicate to the House and to the nation the nature of that change. 
It has become an accepted practice that a sewerage loan be of a 40-year term and that other loans be of a 30-year term, having in mind that many of the assets which are developed as a consequence of the loan moneys have a limited life. It would be of very grave significance if there were to be a major change in the terms under which loan moneys were made available because if, in respect of an asset that has a life of 25 to 30 years, the loan term were extended to, say, 60 years, future generations would be paying for an asset which had seen its useful life. I note from the expressions of the Minister that he is aware of the point that I am making and I look forward to hearing his comments later in the debate and hope to receive from him an assurance that any major policy change in this regard will be drawn to the attention of the House. 
Although this Bill deals only with the 2 specific points which I have described, it is an amendment of a piece of legislation that approved the expenditure in the current financial year of $258m and I do want, in conclusion, to touch very briefly on the implications of that. As the Minister would recall, last week I asked him a question arising out of the paper that he tabled with the Budget papers at the beginning of this financial year. In that report the following statement appeared: 
The total outlay on the programs of the Urban and Regional Development Ministry is expected to increase by $266.7m, or 160 per cent, to $433.7m in 1974-75, following the increase of $87.7m in 1973-74. This rapid build-up in expenditure can be expected to ease in subsequent years as the new programs begun in 1973 become established. The best available estimates of the implications of present plans, not allowing for price changes, are that increases in 1975-76 and 1976-77 may be of the order of $206m (47 per cent) and $94m ( 1 5 per cent), respectively. 
I do not propose today to touch upon the great implications that such a real increase in the expenditure of one department would have when taken in the total Budget context. What I want to raise is the problem that confronts State governments, local governments and semigovernmental authorities at the present time. That problem arises because of the fact that last year they too had this statement which I have just quoted drawn to their attention. Many of the programs undertaken by State governments, local governments and semi-governmental authorities with funds provided under this legislation are programs that take time to develop, and if there is to be a serious change in the resources available and those available to any particular program, it is important that those involved with the planning of those programs receive as early notification as possible. 
One is constantly amazed at the inefficiencies that develop because of the annual budgeting of programs that are necessarily for periods longer than 12 months and the bunching of expenditure that occurs immediately before the conclusion of the financial year because of the necessity to spend it before 30 June, and then the starvation in terms of available funds in the first few months of the oncoming financial year. This distorts the allocation of resources and results in urban development costing more in real resources to achieve the same result than would be the case if the programs could be developed at a steadier pace and with a consistency over a period longer than 12 months. 
-It is true, as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development says, that they all have supply, but if there is to be a significant change in the availability of funds in the forthcoming year, it is important that that change and the programs to be altered should be indicated as soon as possible, because the planning necessarily would have taken place upon the basis of the indications given last year. If now as the Minister pointed out in his answer to my question, he is faced with the problem of convincing his Cabinet of the priority to be placed on the programs that he is advancing and if he is unsuccessful in achieving the level of resource allocation that was publicly indicated in the Budget Papers last year, the sooner he can let the authorities who are carrying out urban development know of the change in the allocation of resources, the more efficient will be the development of their programs. There will not be this sudden stop-start aspect of their programs which is expensive and inefficient in its operation. 
In conclusion, I should like to say that we in the Opposition recognise the great importance of improving the standard of our urban areas and ensuring that those new and developing urban areas are developed to a standard that is acceptable. We place great importance on local government, semi-government authorities and the States having the resources available to them to enable them to achieve a standard of urban development that will meet the aspirations of the Australian people. But we want to make sure also that the funds that are made available preserve for local government and for State governments, not only the responsibility to administer, but the responsibility to make decisions with respect to those matters that properly fall within the area and scope of their responsibilities. Insofar as this piece of legislation will give some greater flexibility in making funds available to the States for urban development, we support this legislation and we support the inclusion of the provision of funds for flood mitigation purposes as well. 
I would like to raise one matter at the third reading stage. This legislation relates to grants in respect of colleges of advanced education. We read in the Press at the weekend of a proposed amalgamation of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Colleges of Advanced Education. As yet that matter has not been placed before this House. It was known that the Parliament was sitting last week; it was known that it would be sitting this week. Yet an announcement as significant as the amalgamation of the two commissions was made outside the House. I would be interested to know from the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  whether in due course opportunity will be given to discuss this significant move. The implications for universities of a move such as this are very large indeed. 
The Minister will remember that on 1 5 April in the debate on the Bill to establish the Commission on Technical and Further Education I drew to the attention of the House a statement that he had issued in respect of the establishment of a committee to look into some special problems with regard to what was in his statement described as post-secondary education in northern Tasmania. The Minister was at some pains to emphasise that that committee was established merely to examine the problem that has arisen in northern Tasmania. When I drew to the attention of the House the significance of the implications of the establishment of a committee that comprised the  Chairman  of the Universities Commission, the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education and the  chairman  of the interim committee dealing with technical education, the Minister endeavoured to dismiss the importance of the committee. By way of interjection, the Minister said that the committee has been set up at the request of the Tasmanian Government, and that is true. But I pointed out: 
It may have been at the request of the Tasmanian Government, but it is significant that the committee has been set up and that it is to include the  Chairman  of the Universities Commission, Professor Karmel; the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education,  Mr T.  B. Swanson; and the  Chairman  of the Committee on Technical and Further Education, Associate Professor E. Richardson. 
The Minister then interjected and said: 
It is not a committee of post-secondary education. It is a committee to examine the needs of north and north-west Tasmania for post-secondary education. 
I went on to say then that the Minister was endeavouring to narrow down the responsibility of the committee because, as I pointed out then and as I point out now, the scope of the brief given to that committee could have been interpreted as far more extensive than to deal merely with the problem of post-secondary education in Tasmania. Now, less than 6 weeks later, we have an announcement made outside the Parliament that the Universities Commission is to be amalgamated with the Commission on Advanced Education. Six weeks ago the Minister put great stress on the fact that the Commission on Technical and Further Education represented the establishment of the fourth of 4 very significant commissions. Is it now suggested that the amalgamation of the 2 commissions- the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education- was not then in contemplation? 
It seems somewhat strange. If it was not then in contemplation, has the decision to amalgamate those commissions arisen as a consequence of the examination by the group of Chairmen of the Commissions through their meetings on the small problems that arise in Tasmania? If it has so arisen, why then was that group not given the responsibility of seeking views from education authorities around Australia as to the way in which post-secondary education should be organised? If it was proper that within the scope - 
-The Minister says that the personnel is not even the same. The committee did comprise the  Chairman  of the Universities Commission, the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education - 
-The Minister would serve this House better - 
When I was speaking previously on the legislation dealing with the - 
I should like to ask the Minister further with regard to the point I raised a few minutes ago: Did he suggest by his reply that the basis for amalgamating or considering the amalgamation- he did not make clear whether it is a Government decision to amalgamate or whether the Government is only considering that amalgamation- of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Colleges of Advanced Education and the reason that they are funded - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  I indicated to the honourable member previously that this matter gets out of the general context of the Bill. I allowed him a lot of latitude, and also the Minister in his reply, but this matter does certainly get outside the ambit of the Bill. 
-I defer to your ruling,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I should have thought that, in an examination at the Committee stage of a matter that deals with grants made by the Universities Commission, involving the funding of the several universities throughout Australia, it would be possible to raise the implications for those universities in their future funding of a change in the fundamental structure of the Universities Commission. But if you feel that that matter cannot be raised,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I shall leave it at that. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What applications for financial assistance have been received by his Department from any group, organisation or local government body in the Electoral Division of Stun. 
What funds have been made available through his Department to any group, organisation or local government body in the Division. 
What projects in the Division are being supported by his Department. 
What applications from any group, organisation or local government body received by bis Department have been rejected. 
What applications from any group, organisation or local government body are currently before his Department, and when will decisions be made concerning them. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The purpose of the Austraiian National University Bill 1975 and the Canberra College of Advanced Education Bill 1975 now before the House is to put into legislative form decisions which have been taken and put into effect in relation to universities and colleges of advanced education in the States. They follow as a consequence of the Government's announced proposals that certain fees payable by undergraduate students at university should be abolished. With regard to the States, this could be done by policy announcement of the Government or by the funding by this Government of the State governments with the request by this Government that State governments where necessary amend the statutes governing universities and colleges of advanced education. So, in the States where there were requirements upon universities in their statutes and where there were requirements in the legislation setting up colleges of advanced education that those bodies charge a fee, the States have now appropriately amended the relevant legislation. 
When the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  intoduced the 2 Bills which are now the subject of this debate, he asked that the matters be speedily dealt with. They were not dealt with as speedily as he then hoped. There was no great need to delay them a long time because there is no dispute with regard to the passage of this legislation. The Opposition supports the proposals because, in dealing with these 2 Bills, we are acting in relation to these 2 institutions as State governments would act in relation to their colleges of advanced education and their universities. The principal purpose of these Bills is to authorise the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education to admit undergraduate students without charging fees. The Bills do specify that they can charge certain types of fees, that is, those that are not fees in respect of tuition but rather fees and charges for university student unions, sporting associations and the like. 
In the case of the Australian National University Bill, there are 2 other amendments which the Opposition supports. The first expands the membership of the Australian National University Council by allowing for admission to that council of a representative of the staff of that university. The Opposition supports that proposal. The other amendment which we applaud is the clarification of the powers of the Council of the Australian National University with regard to the statutes that it itself can make. Under the Act as it now reads, that Council has power to deal with the terms upon which students become matriculants for entry to the University. In these days when there is an effort to broaden the opportunities of people to expand their education by entering tertiary institutions and, in particular, universities, to confine the power of the Council to regulations relating to matriculation is, if one puts a strict interpretation on that word, to limit the opportunities for tertiary education to people who have obtained traditional academic qualifications at secondary level in the form of matriculation examinations. 
We, therefore, are very keen to indicate our support for the amendment to this statutemaking power on the part of the Council of the Australian National University to enable it to make statutes with regard to the matriculation, admission and enrolment of students. We have in mind that this change will clarify the position and, in so clarifying, expand the capacity of the Council to admit as students to the University people who in their later life wish to complete a university course but who find that at the time when they undertook their primary education followed by secondary education they did not qualify at the traditional matriculation examinations. The provision of an expanded opportunity to obtain further education is deserving of further study so that more and more people who in the more mature years of their fife want to undertake further university study will be able to do so. That is particularly relevant at a time when, as they have found in recent years, universities are finding it necessary to impose quotas on admissions to a large number of courses, if not to all courses. The imposition of those quotas has tended to restrict entry to universities to those who have qualified academically in school examinations. 
I think all honourable members are aware that some of the most brilliant scientists, doctors, lawyers, teachers and members of other professions are those who have come up through a training based on practical experience and for whom the development of their abilities has come later in life. In the past many such people have found it difficult to qualify themselves by attaining university degrees because of the rather strict requirements with regard to matriculation as a means of entry into universities. I hope that this sort of matter will be examined closely and that adequate opportunity will be given to more and more of the people who in later life find that through the experience of life they have an aptitude for university study. I hope that the basis for admission to such courses will not be restricted to the passing of the formal and traditional matriculation examination. Insofar as this legislation will enable that type of person to undertake degree courses at the Australian National University, we members of the Opposition applaud the measure. 
As I indicated in my opening remark, these pieces of legislation are designed to put into practice and to confirm a course of action that has been in operation now for nearly 2 years. In that respect the legislation is retrospective because it authorises the 2 institutions concerned not to collect fees, although under their existing statutes they may have had an obligation to do so in respect of the 1974 year and so much of 1975 as has already passed. We join with the Minister in his expressed desire and hope that these 2 Bills will receive a speedy passage. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister. Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister express Government policy at the opening of the Labor Women's Federal Conference when he said, firstly, that life insurance has little or no logic in an affluent society and, secondly, that tax concessions for life insurance premiums had no logic? Does this mean that the real value of this deduction will be maintained or that the real value will be allowed to decline as a consequence of the Government's failure to see the logic of provision through life insurance and superannuation? 
-I should like to raise the same matter as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has just dealt with and to touch on certain aspects of his comments. I, too, have had representations made to me by people who have suffered and will suffer greatly as a consequence of this secret decision taken by the Government and its instrumentality to extend the period of availability from 5 to 6 weeks to 1 1 months. 
As the honourable member says, with regard to many applicants the Government is welching on a commitment. The Minister appears to fail to understand the circumstances surrounding negotiations for the purchase of a house. Many people who wish to avail themselves of their entitlement under the defence service home loans scheme look for the house of their choice. When they have found the house they tell the prospective vendor, through an agent, that it is their wish to purchase the house. Then the question of finance is raised. They indicate to the agent that they are entitled to a loan under the defence service homes scheme. The agent in many instances assume that there will be a 5 to 6 weeks delay; so the contract very often is written with a priviso that settlement is to be effected 5 to 6 weeks later. In some circumstances specific mention is made of the contract being subject to defence service home loans division approval. 
I notice that the Minister has left the chamber. It appears that he is not prepared to answer the further issues that were implicit in the remarks that he just made. The type of purchaser to whom I have been referring, having entered into this form of contract very often is buying a house from someone who wishes to move to other accommodation. So the vendor of the house very often also is entering into a contract for the sale of his house in order to purchase another. That contract, too, is made subject to the completion of some other sale. As a consequence of the secret decision to extend the time within which these loans can be made available, many people are facing great hardship. 
The case that was drawn to my attention had these facts: The agent had indicated to the buyer that he had discovered that there was a longer waiting period. When he raised the matter with me he did not know whether the delay was temporary or whether it was a policy announcement. We have heard from the Minister tonight that a policy decision has been taken. The availability of loans under the defence service home loans scheme will now be extended to 1 1 months. The agent in the case to which I refer asked me whether he should go to the vendor and ask the vendor whether he would allow settlement to be postponed for 11 months. What home owner seeking to sell his house for whatever purpose, whether to buy another one or to realise on his asset, would be prepared at no cost to the purchaser to postpone the settlement date for a period of 1 1 months? He might be prepared to do so for 6 or 7 weeks, or even 9 weeks. He might even be prepared to allow the prospective purchaser to enter into possession on some rental arrangement. Normally the vendor of a house needs the proceeds of that sale to meet his own commitments, both on his mortgages on his existing house and to complete the purchase of some other accommodation. 
The number of members in the chamber tonight shows the interest of the members of the Labor Party. Only one member is here this evening listening to this debate. The Minister who dealt with the issue, and in answer to an interjection indicated that in cases of hardship directors would be authorised to make funds available earlier than 1 1 months, is not here to answer the question I now wish to put to him. The question I have is: Will directors be authorised to make loans available within a 6 to 7 weeks period in all those cases where contracts were written by prospective purchasers in the belief and expectation that their defence service homes loan would be available within the 5 to 6 weeks period, which has been the practice over recent months? If it was as a consequence of budgetary constraints that the period had to be so extended, it should have been done with great publicity so that people who had entered into contracts were not prejudiced. The Minister's action and the Housing Corporation's action in taking the decision that has been taken have prejudiced a great number of people. I hope that those who are prejudiced by virtue of the fact that they have entered into contracts will now get some relief from the Minister's assurance that hardship cases will be looked at sympathetically. I think that anyone who entered into a contract in the belief that money would be available in 5 or 6 weeks from the time of application for the loan will suffer severe hardship now when he discovers that the loan money will not be available for some 11 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security upon notice: 
How many applications for grants for projects under the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Act were being processed by the Department of Social Security as at 1 July 1975. 
Of these applications, how many (a) had been formally approved, (b) had been approved in principle (i) in writing and (ii) orally and (c) were pending consideration. 
In relation to pan (2), (a), how many self-contained units, hospital beds, nursing home beds and staff beds, would be built if the projects were completed, (b) what is the estimated capital cost and (c) what is the estimated amount of grant payable on the assumption formal approval has been or is given. 
Will all applications which satisfy the conditions specified in the Act be approved, or will approval be withheld in the event of funds required to provide $4 to $1 subsidy exceeding $30 million or any other amount for the financial year 1975-76. 

 Mr Stewart: The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Fifty-three applications for grants under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act were on hand at 1 July 1 975. 
(2) 
Of these applications 14 have since had formal approval of a grant. 
At 1 July 1975, 39 of the applications had been approved in principle; (i) 28 in writing and (ii) 11 orally. 
The balance of 14 applications was pending consideration. 
(3) 
If all 53 projects were completed accommodation would be provided for 1182 persons, 489 in selfcontained units, 281 in hostels, 396 in nursing beds and 1 6 in staff quarters. 
and (c) The total capital cost of these projects is estimated at $16,533,844 and the grants at $11,748,013. 
In the future all applications for the $4 for $1 subsidy which meet all conditions specified in the Act will be considered on a priorities basis, having regard to such relevant factors as need, existing aged or disabled persons' accommodation in the area, number of persons seeking accommodation and the extent of funds appropriated by the Parliament in 1975/76. Until more information is available in this regard it is not possible to predict whether all grants will be approved or whether approval will be deferred in some cases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Under the Medibank agreement with the State of South Australia are hospitals such as the Royal Adelaide Hospital entitled to charge fees for patients having treatment in the Outpatients' Department. 
If so, are all patients charged the same fee for the same service. 
If some patients are charged fees and others not charged, what category of patient is charged a fee and what category of patient is not so charged. 
What are the current fees for the most usual types of treatment made available by the Outpatients ' Department at the Royal Adelaide Hospital. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I draw the Minister's attention to his Department's discussion paper entitled  Urban Land Problems and Policies  in which the taxing of the rental value of owner-occupied housing was put forward as a component of a package designed to reduce the demand for owner-occupied housing. In view of this, did his Department make a submission to the Priorities Review Staff inquiry into housing? Did it recommend the introduction of a tax on home owners, calculated on the basis of the imputed rental value of their homes? Finally, did he support such recommendations and would he support the introduction of such a tax? 

 -Mr Chairman, the proposed expenditure for the Department of Urban and Regional Development is a substantial sum of money. In seeking a vote of this magnitude the Government is allocating substantial resources to this Department. It is not only the size of this resource allocation which is important. It is also the type of programs supported by the Department and the distribution of available funds between them. In the introduction to Budget Paper No. 9 the Minister said: 
What the Government does affects where we live and how we live. 
With this I agree. I would place greater emphasis, however, on the fact that the effects of Government action are not only short term but also medium and long term. The Minister has claimed that the Government has 'sought to blend new initiatives with a conscious effort to do the customary things better'. I think it is clear that the Government has done the customary things very badly. Its overall responsibility for economic management is to manage the economy. The responsibility that flows from becoming involved in urban and regional issues is not discharged in an economic management sense by limiting involvement to the planning and allocation of resources required for the large expenditure programs of the States. If, as a result of bad economic management, there is a failure to achieve national economic goals, urban efficiency and equity cannot be achieved. 
Labor's failure to keep inflation under control, its failure to maintain full employment and its failure to sustain economic growth are already having very serious effects on where we live and how we live. The consequences of. these lost opportunities will become clear as and when a more capable government embarks upon the task of cleaning up the economic mess created by the Labor Government. While inflation persists, first time home buyers will find increasing difficulty in purchasing their own homes and those wanting rental accommodation will have increasing difficulty in finding accommodation at rents they can afford. The rate of progress in the improvement of the urban environment will be drastically slowed down. The real purchasing power of savings declines and higher interest rates on mortgage finance increases the deposit gap. Unemployment at the levels brought about by the actions of Labor will result in the persistent and further emergence of urban poverty and a slowing of programs needed to extend urban areas to meet current demands and those designed to improve existing urban areas. The slower growth in the economy obviously affects the pattern of urban development to the disadvantage of those whose needs are greatest. 
As pointed out by the Department, it is capital programs which have to bear a considerable portion of the need for Budget restraint. Where this means a slowing in the rate of improvement in the existing stock of housing and urban amenities it is a price which the community must bear as a consequence of Labor's economic mismanagement. Where it results in the growth of  the housing stock and essential urban amenities falling below genuine community needs, as is now occurring, the Government that brought such a situation about deserves the most severe censure. 
The 1 974 Budget paper on urban and regional development stresses the importance of indicating present expectations of future expenditures because it rightly pointed out: 
Policies for urban and regional development involve continuity of effort far beyond the limits of any one financial year. 
Though at the time it heavily qualified its forward estimates a forecast was given that the implications of the 1974-75 programs were that a 47 per cent increase, in real terms, of allocations for those programs was estimated for 1974-75. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  indicated in an overoptimistic way in an answer to a question that I posed to him in the last session an expectation of achieving something close to that level of increase. In this year's Budget, the programs have been revised. The ultimate achievement has been deferred. Annual expenditures have been rearranged. The forecast upward movement because of changing prices has not been realised. That in all the circumstances the cutbacks were necessary is not in dispute. What I do criticise, and criticise most strongly, is, firstly, that the circumstances exist at all, and, secondly, that policies which involve a continuity of effort far beyond the limits of one fiscal year were not more accurately programmed. 
I illustrate by turning for a few moments to the question of sewerage programs. Whether those programs were designed to overcome backlogs or to ensure an adequate supply of serviced land, they cannot go on in an efficient and effective way if they are organised on a stop-go basis. Those responsible for planning those programs no doubt read last year's Budget paper on urban affairs. They no doubt read all the qualifications that the Minister or the Department placed in making the estimates. They could be forgiven for having expected that some effort had been made in calculating an accurate forecast of the resources that would be available in the development of the nation's sewerage program. The planning and preparation of such works involves long lead times. The funding of these programs on an annual basis is both inadequate and often results in wasteful expenditure of resources. All too often we hear of the consequence of the '30 June syndrome' where money is available prior to that date, must be spent before that date, and very often is spent in a way which costs the Australian taxpayer considerably more to achieve improvement in the standards of the urban infrastructure than would otherwise be the case if a longer term program had been in operation. It is acknowledged - 
In some instances in the Land Commissions area there are clear indications where, as a result of the need to make hasty purchase, adequate opportunity to negotiate prices down to the appropriate level may not have been achieved. I return to the question of sewerage. It is acknowledged that these programs may sometimes be used to stimulate employment and must be so used. It should be possible for a Government providing substantial funds for sewerage works to indicate on a long term basis the amount of real resources that will be available on an in-any-event basis while giving some guide of upper and lower limits of the range of possibilities in the event of accelerated resources being available because it is needed to stimulate employment. It is important that such optional programs should, where possible, be in the area of backlog work rather than in the provision of services to meet the current need for serviced land. I would conclude by emphasising this point. It is my deep concern that very often the cutbacks are on the building up on the new infrastructure to provide the opportunities for the newly forming families to be able to purchase serviced land at a price they can afford. All too often it is those programs at the fringe which are cut back while the rest of the community goes on upgrading the services that are available to it and the young families pay the price of having to live in inadequate accommodation because they are unable to afford to purchase their own home, unable to realise the dream of home ownership? 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government made funds available to the South Australian Government for use by the South Australian Land Commission for the purchase of land. 
If so, how much land has been purchased or acquired by the Commission. 
3 ) Where is the land so purchased or acquired situated. 
What price was paid for the land. 
How much other land has the Commission decided to purchase or acquire: 
Where is that land situated. 
Did the Commission obtain an impact statement as to the consequences of the likely change in use of the land so purchased or acquired or intended to be purchased or acquired; if not, why not 
If an impact statement was obtained, will it be made public before any further land is purchased or acquired; if not, why not 

 -Mr Speaker -  Mr Nicholls-  I move: 
I had a consequential amendment to this clause. If the earlier amendment had been agreed to I would have moved to omit clause 3. If I may have your indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  the same would apply to clause 7, clause 12 and to the Schedule to the Bill. I make mention of that now to indicate that consequential amendments would have flowed to achieve the objectives I set out earlier. 
-No, I do not now intend to persist with those amendments. Those amendments, to delete clauses, were consequential upon an earlier amendment being accepted. I just want to record our opposition to this clause and the other clauses I mentioned for the reasons I previously outlined. 
Clause agreed to. Clause 4. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of 'Commonwealth school' and substituting the following definition: - 'Australian Government school' means a school conducted by Australia, by the Administration of a Territory or by a prescribed authority, and includes a school conducted in Papua New Guinea by a prescribed institution; '; 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the definition of 'scholarship' and substituting the following definitions:- 'prescribed authority' means an authority or body, whether incorporated or unincorporated, that- 
a ) is established for a public purpose by , or in accordance with the provisions of- 
an Act; 
regulations made under an Act; or 
a law of a Territory; and 
is declared by the regulations to be a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act; 'scholarship' means an Australian Teaching Service Scholarship provided for by Part IV; '; and 
by omitting from the definitions of 'the Commissioner' and 'the Service' in sub-section (1) the word 'Commonwealth' and substituting the word 'Australian'. 

 -Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move 2 amendments together. 
I ask leave to move amendments in place of amendment No. 4 which has been circulated in my name. The amendments relate to clause 4, page 2, line 19 and to clause 4, page 2, lines 2 1 to 23. 
-The Bill now before the House is the Cities Commission (Repeal) Bill 1975. At this stage I should like to indicate that the Opposition is not opposed to this Bill. However, in addressing the House I should like to draw the attention of the House to the history of the Cities Commission. It was a Liberal-National Country Party government which originated the legislation which finally evolved into the form known as the Cities Commission Act. It was a Liberal-National Country Party government that recognised the need to tackle problems of urban areas with vigour and imagination. 
-It was a Liberal-National Country Party government which recognised the need to secure a better quality of life in our urban areas. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  said that the action was taken belatedly. The action was in fact taken. It is always a question in the judgment of history as to whether problems were identified at the appropriate time. I point out to the House that the Liberal and National Country parties in government recognised the problems that had emerged in our urban areas. Having overcome many of the other problems that were faced by government over a number of years in office the priorities could then be directed and attention could then be directed to the problems of urban areas. 
The events of the last 3 years have increased our appreciation of the importance of urban development. We want to continue a sensitive, realistic approach to the handling of matters related to urban development. I turn back to the initiation of this legislation. It was introduced as a Bill to set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, an authority which was established on 31 October 1972 as a statutory corporation. Its duties were to investigate matters and to report to the Minister and to assist the Government in the consideration of making financial assistance available to the States. It was in large measure responsible to act in accordance with directions of the Minister although in a number of areas it had a degree of autonomy and independence. This autonomy and independence largely came through an advisory committee that was established to advise the authority. When the present Government came to office it introduced amending legislation which changed the Authority's name to the Cities Commission. I shall return to that in just a moment. 
There is no doubt that urban problems and challenges are national in character. There is no doubt that in a federation the decisions of a Commonwealth government, the governments of the States, local government authorities, semigovernmental instrumentalities and private decisions both corporate and individual have a significant effect on the way in which our urban areas develop. Recognising the significance of that effect and the fact that if those decisions do not take account of the interrelated effect that they have, bad results can ensue. It is important that in a Federal government we recognise the role that must be played at the national level. We want to see balanced development in our urban areas. Many of our suburbs are often given the title 'dormitory suburbs'. That term lacks a warmth. It creates the impression that the areas are used by people only when they return home to sleep. People today want their urban areas to be humanised. They want the benefit and pleasure of living in communities. They want to see developed communities within the framework of the large urban cities. 
There is an increasing recognition that development of community is not exclusively based upon geography. The people want to see their urban areas develop in a balanced way with recognition that in an urban area there is need to provide not only housing but also access to employment, education and commercial, social and recreational facilities. There is also a clear need to diversify our urban areas, to ensure that within any particular urban area there is the maximum range of choice. Over recent years governments have increasingly recognised the spatial impact of their decisions. It is important that within a government the impact of the decisions of its departments upon urban areas should be fully appreciated. Over recent years in all governments has developed a vertical functional operation. Each department has concerned itself with its own functions whether they be transport, education, health, trade, manufacturing or postal. They have all been concerned with their own particular responsibilities. Regretfully, all too often those vertically structured departments have failed to identify the implications of their decisions on the community at large. 
That failure has resulted in a huge cost in human terms, not only in the way and style in which people can live but also in the cost to the community in the allocation of resources to redeem the defects which have come about because of the functional orientation of departmental decision making. This applies not only to departments but also to the 3 forms of government that we have in Australia. We need to recognise that each form and sphere of government in making decisions can affect the decisions of other spheres of government and in turn those decisions can influence the shape and development of our urban areas and the way in which our communities live and enjoy life. Therefore, it is vitally important that there be mechanisms whereby there can be co-operation between the departments and co-ordination of their activities having in mind the achievement of the best type of urban development that we are able to devise. Likewise, it is essential that there be co-operation between the various spheres of government. I emphasise co-operation and not confrontation. 
When the Government came to office it changed the name of, and amended the legislation that set up, the original National Urban and Regional Development Authority. The Government changed the structure of the Authority. It indicated that it believed that its functions should be to provide a bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development he had in mind that as a result of the legislation he promoted the Cities Commission would have an expanded role and greater responsibilities. When the Minister introduced the change in name he said that it was symbolic of one of the great themes of the Labor Government's program for the cities both old and new. The change of name to the Cities Commission was to be a symbol of the Government's concern for cities and urban areas. One almost feels that it is ironic that the debate today should be taking place when the political events are as they are, for today that symbol of a program is to be deleted from the statute book. 
Let us look at cities that this Government has influenced. They are cities where there is unemployment and where thousands of people would like to have the opportunity to live in their own homes or rent accommodation of their choice. They are unable to do so because in many instances they cannot afford to buy a house or rent a house because they are unemployed or their wives are unemployed. There cannot be sensible urban development and improvement of the urban infrastructure while a large percentage of the Australian work force is unemployed. We find in the dole queues many young people as well as old people- people who are frustrated as a result of the economic mismanagement of this discredited Government. So frustrated are they in many instances that they have lost the desire to work and the understanding that we can only have a better society, better cities and better urban areas if we are prepared to work and achieve things, and if governments are prepared to have programs and conduct their affairs in a way in which economic management results in a fully employed economy. 
I move from the question of unemployment to inflation. There cannot be orderly urban development whilst there is a state of hyperinflation. The effect of constantly rising prices is that it throws into disarray the works programs of so many State governments, local government bodies and semi-governmental authorities which are seeking to improve and continually to expand the urban infrastructure to provide services by way of expanding sewerage facilities, expanding the electricity authorities and expanding the postal services. In aU these areas there is clear evidence that the authorities are unable to maintain their works program at a level sufficient to meet the rising demand of a growing population. If they cannot meet the rising demand of a growing population they are certainly unable to improve the general level of the urban infrastructure, to remove the deficiencies which have come about as a consequence of decisions which now, with the benefit of hindsight, we see were faulty decisions. So as a result of inflation, the symbol of the Cities Commission, of a program and the theme for the development of cities, is beginning to disappear. 
I turn from unemployment and inflation to the question of economic growth. Under the economic mismanagement of this Government we have found economic growth so slowed down that as a consequence we are not able to provide for the community the sorts of urban development that would otherwise have been possible. One of the greatest effects of the economic slowdown, coupled with inflation and unemployment, has been upon the outer developing suburbs and the growth centres. Everyone now recognises that in order to extend effectively an urban area or establish a growth centre it is absolutely essential that there be provided an employment base and employment opportunities close to the homes where people live and to the communities in which they spend their recreational time. Yet, as a conequence of this Government's economic mismanagement, its tariff policies and its other measures we find that so many of the industries that provided employment in the outer suburbs and the smaller cities and would have provided employment in the growth centres are in the greatest difficulty and in many instances have closed down altogether. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development came into this House in 1973 and proposed that the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority be changed to the Cities Commission as it was a symbol of the great theme of this Government. A great theme indeed! It is a theme that through unemployment, through inflation and through the slowing down of economic growth has resulted in a slowdown in the development of our urban areas, in the diversification of these areas, in the provison of more homes for those who want them and in the general upgrading of the facilities available to the Australian people in the cities and the towns in which they live. As I said, it is symbolic that this Bill to repeal the Cities Commission should come forward today. What are needed are great themes put into practice, not symbols that have no substance. 
Secondly, the Minister in his speech proposing the amendments to the legislation in 1973 suggested that the Cities Commission would provide a bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. I wonder whether now, in its repeal, he has in mind taking down that bridge. I would hope that the Department of Urban and Regional Development would be able to recognise the need for close consultation and cooperation with the States. The Minister himself has gone on record as saying that federalism is a partnership in a spirit of mutual co-operation at all levels of government. It is more than a spirit of mutual co-operation. It involves a recognition of the autonomy and independence of the several forms of government in this country. It is an independence that must be preserved through co-operation not an independence that is to be destroyed as a consequence of alleged cooperation. 
I turn now to the Minister's proposals, at the time he changed the name of the Authority, for the expansion of its responsibilities. He said that it would conduct studies of regional areas, that it would play a leading role in the establishment of new cities, and that it would provide consultative services. It would now appear he has in mind taking these functions over into a bureau which he proposes to establish within his Department. The Minister claimed, when NURDA was first established, that it would wither on the vine. It has not withered on the vine. The vine has been cut, and the man with the secateurs has been the Minister. He claimed that his amendments would enable the Cities Commission to play a more active and useful role. It has played a role. Now the Minister has abolished that Commission. It is easy to see that as the Department has expanded there has developed a situation where there has been duplication and confusion as to which authority, whether the Department or the Commission, should perform certain functions. Insofar as each, the Commission and the Department, were dealing with the States and local government, the continuance of the 2 bodies handling very similar issues created difficulties for those governments dealing with Federal Government instrumentalities. 
I turn now to the Minister's proposal to establish within the Department a Bureau of the Cities. He outlined in his second reading speech the purposes and functions of the proposed bureau. One assumes that what he has in mind is that the bureau will perform many of the functions which the Cities Commission previously performed and which were being performed by the Department of Urban and Regional 
Development. He indicated in his speech that as the Department of Urban and Regional Development has expanded its capacity it has gradually taken over the functions of the Cities Commission. 
I want to touch on some of the functions that he listed in his second reading speech. He said that amongst those functions would be the provision of professional and technical advice. I wonder how many members he proposes should be engaged in this work? I would be unhappythe Opposition would be unhappy- to see centralised professional and technical services used in a way which fails to recognise the expertise in the community. If that unit is to provide all the professional and technical advice which is needed in urban affairs we do not agree with the proposal. If it is there to co-ordinate and develop the expertise of the community at large we can see it having a useful role, for there are professional and technical experts in local government, in State government authorities and their instrumentalities, in universities and in colleges of advanced education. There is a large body of private professional and technical experts and consultants. 
We would see the importance of a bureau or group within the Department playing that important role to ensure that the best return is achieved out of the skills within the community as a whole and gathering those skills to deal with urban problems as they develop in a way that preserves diversity, initiative and differing viewpoints so that we get different styles of development taking place in different parts of our diverse country. We would also expect that in the development and pursuit of that purpose adequate recognition would be given to multidisciplinary professional and technical advice. If it is intended that all those disciplines be brought together and only one group employed by the Government used in the pursuit of national urban policies, we think there is a danger that such a group will operate on too narrow a base and not have sufficiently wide horizons. 
I turn now to some other aspects of the proposed cities bureau. It is to undertake studies and research. I noticed that the Minister used the phrase 'undertake studies'. I would have thought it would be better to encourage studies and research in those quarters to which I have referred because, in expanding a bureau such as this, there is a great danger that it will tend to believe that it has a monopoly on wisdom, skill and expertise. The Department has skills and it has some very fine officers, but one would want to ensure that an atmosphere did not develop in which they become inward looking, thinking that they as a group provide the fount of all wisdom and that those operating at other levels of government within the community at large have nothing to contribute in the development of our urban areas. One would hope that advice on urban and regional investment programs would be limited to concern with the impact of Federal Government investment in urban areas and the study of national implications of other programs, because there is a great danger in concentrating too much responsibility within one department where there are several spheres of government with their own independent functions to perform in this area. 
I should point out with regard to the functions of conducting engineering planning studies and investigations and undertaking the planning, design and construction of engineering works of an investigatory and experimental nature, including works associated with water supply, sewerage, storm water, roads and other transportation systems within pilot projects, that I hope that emphasis is put on the experimental nature of such works and on pilot projects. I hope too that the way in which that planning would be done and those experiments carried out would be to use the undoubted expertise in the semigovernmental instrumentalities which are now responsible for carrying out sewerage works, storm water works and road programs. I hope too that the independent professional consultants will be used for the reasons I mentioned earlier, because throughout the whole community, at all levels of government and in the private sector, there are large reserves of skills and ability, and they should be used. 
I was interested to note that, amongst other functions, the proposed bureau is to keep abreast of major developments. One would hope that all professionally and technically trained people with skill in a special area would make it part of their business to keep abreast of major developments. Undoubtedly there is a need for the Federal Government, through its Department of Urban and Regional Development, to ensure that the knowledge and skills which are developed overseas are brought to Australia and made available. The remaining functions of the proposed bureau concentrate very heavily on its work in the development of regional areas, and it would appear that that is where the proposed Cities Bureau may end. The rise and fall of the Cities Commission may take the form of its reemergence as the Albury-Wodonga bureau because we see from the Minister's second reading statement that the proposed bureau is to be located there and is to have a significant role in the development of Albury-Wodonga, it having no role apparently in general or central policy formulation. 
I conclude by emphasising our concern for the orderly development of our urban areas and our concern to see that all spheres of government have adequate resources to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities in urban areas. One of the great difficulties in the past has been that State and local government bodies and their instrumentalities have not had sufficient resources to enable them to maintain the growth of our cities and growth centres at a rate sufficient to meet the demands of a growing population. They have not had sufficient resources to enable them to meet the rising expectations in terms of standards that the community now requires. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Opposition has put forward a federalism policy which, amongst other things, is designed to provide various spheres of government with adequate resources to enable them to fulfil the responsibilities in urban affairs and in other areas which are undoubtedly their responsibility. Those resources need to be made available in terms of recurrent income as well as by way of loan funds and there needs to be a careful analysis as to which areas of urban development can best take place out of tax revenues and which can more appropriately be pursued with the use of loan funds. One of the grave difficulties facing semigovernment authorities today is the heavy debt burden and interest burden that they carry. As I mentioned in opening, the Opposition is not opposed to this Bill but draws to the attention of the House the particular points that I have touched on in my remarks today. 
-The Teaching Service Bill 1975 is a relatively minor Bill. The Opposition supports its substantive provisions. The Bill is designed to make special long service leave provisions for those New South Wales and South Australian teachers who joined the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Insofar as their long service leave entitlements are to be preserved, we support the proposal because it was on the basis that their entitlements in this regard and in others would be preserved that many of these teachers transferred from services where they had been employed for a number of years. 
The Bill also makes provision for teachers employed by the Commonwealth Teaching Service to be transferred to the technical colleges that are established in the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill, as originally drafted, did not enable this to be done and the amendments of this Bill seek to expand its operation so that teachers in the service can be engaged' in those colleges. In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said that in considering other amendments necessary to the legislation the Government took the opportunity of reviewing the title of the Teaching Service and indicated that the Bill would seek to amend the title from the. Commonwealth Teaching Service to the Australian Teaching Service. I indicate at this stage that the Opposition intends to propose amendments to the Bill to retain the name of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. We shall do this because at this stage we do not believe there is any reason to change that name. 
The Minister gave no real explanation as to the need for the change. He said that it was in accordance with the Government's general policy. But the teachers engaged by this service are engaged in teaching in the Australian Capital Territory and in the schools in the Northern Territory. They are not engaged in schools throughout Australia. To change the name of the service to the Australian Teaching Service is likely to create confusion. If it does not create confusion it is likely to create in the minds of some the impression of a teaching service that is perhaps superior to or distinct from the teaching services of the States. If the Minister had proposed that the name of the service be changed to the 
Commonwealth Territories Teaching Service or even to the Australian Territories Teaching Service the Opposition may have had different views. I invite the Minister's comment at an appropriate time on those 2 suggestions. 
We note that even in the last annual report of the Commonwealth Teaching Service the Commissioner drew attention to the fact that he has relationships and negotiations with the Australian Capital Territory Commonwealth Teachers Federation and the Northern Territory Commonwealth Teachers Federation. Accordingly, we think it would be more appropriate if the name of the Service were to indicate that it involves teachers engaged in teaching service in the Territories of the Commonwealth or, if the Minister prefers so to describe it, in the teaching service of the Territories of Australia. So at the appropriate time I shall move an amendment to retain the existing name whilst seeking from the Minister an indication of his views as to the possibility of incorporating in the name of the service reference to the places where the teachers are engaged, namely the Australian Territoriesthe Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
As I mentioned in my opening remarks in regard to the other aspects of the Bill, those that relate to the provisions preserving the long service leave entitlements of teachers who transferred from the New South Wales teaching service and the South Australian teaching service, we support that proposal. We also support the idea that teachers in this service should, at this stage anyway, be capable of being employed in the technical colleges being established in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-After the serious issues raised at question time, which has just concluded, and the matters which the members of the Opposition wanted to draw to the attention of the House in discussing a matter of public importance with regard to the persistent endeavours by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government to denigrate the Parliament, its prerogatives and practices- 
-The purpose of this Bill is to establish a commission on tertiary education. That commission will replace the Australian Universities Commission which was established in 1959 and the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education which was established in 1965 and renamed the Australian Commission on Advanced Education in 1 97 1 . These bodies were each set up only after there had been a thorough examination by a committee of inquiry into some aspect of tertiary education. In the case of the Australian Universities Commission it was after the inquiry had reported on what was described by the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee as a crisis in the finance and development of Australian universities. In the case of the ACAE it was after the Martin committee had reported in 1964 on the future of tertiary education in Australia. That committee recognised that the problem of tertiary education at that time was due in a substantial way 'to a genuine demand on the part of the Australian community for increased opportunities in higher education'. After the Martin committee's recommendations had been considered it was decided that assistance to institutions providing tertiary education other than universities should be promoted through a separate committee or commission rather than by an expansion of the role of the Australian Universities Commission. 
These commissions have been so successful in promoting the development of universities and colleges of advanced education that today there are nearly 250 000 students attending these institutions. The development is dramatically illustrated by comparing the 7.5 persons in every 100 in the 17 to 22 years age group who were students in tertiary institutions in 1960 with the 1 7.3 in every 100 who are tertiary students today. What is the financial crisis today? What is the problem today that confronts these sectors of tertiary education which has made amalgamation of these successful commissions desirable? Except for one flimsy argument, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has provided no justification for the amalgamation. He tells us that the consultation that has taken plate between the commissions has not guaranteed the overall coordination and rationalisation he considers desirable. Why has he given no examples? Does he believe that a bigger commission with wider responsibilities will do a better job than 2 commissions with responsibility for only one sector of tertiary education? When he talks of rationalisation does he have in mind standardisation and the removal of diversity? Experience should have taught us that the larger a commission or similar body, the sooner it is likely to take what to it is the easy way out, of making any organisation under its control toe a standard line on an increasing number of issues. 
Why is it that the Minister's second reading speech failed to justify the creation of the new commission? Why then has this Bill been brought into this House at this time? The answer perhaps is to be found in a Press statement issued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 30 May this year. On that date he announced that he had decided to amalgamate the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education into a single statutory advisory body to the Australian Government on universities and colleges. In his Press statement the Prime Minister said that he had consulted the Minister for Education, but he gave no indication as to whether the Minister supported him in his decision. If he did, why was it not announced by him? After all, he is the Minister for Education. The House will remember that some 12 weeks before this decision was announced the Minister had introduced a Bill to establish the Technical and Further Education Commission. When doing so he said that it was the fourth and last of a series of commissions to advise the Government on the needs and priorities in the various sectors of education. He gave no indication that he was thinking of amalgamating the AUC and the CAE or that such a proposal was being considered by anyone else. 
The House will recall how worked up the Minister became when I commented upon the wide terms of reference and high powered composition of a committee formed to examine postsecondary education in northern Tasmania. In addition to a Tasmanian it comprised the  Chairman  of the AUC, Professor Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education,  Mr T.  B. Swanson, and the  Chairman  of the Committee on Technical and Further Education, Associate Professor Richardson. The Minister through his persistent interjections asserted that the Committee's brief was to examine a local problem. By his response he sought to imply not only that it was not the Committee's function to examine possible changes in the constitution of commissions in the 3 areas of postsecondary education but also that he was not contemplating any such change. Indeed, to suggest that he was considering such a change was, he claimed, wrongly to accuse him of some dire plot. Yet a few weeks later a major change was announced- not as a decision of the Government, not by the Minister for Education, but by the Prime Minister. No notice had been given that the question was under consideration. No submissions were called for. No public inquiry was held. It had all the appearances of an arbitrary decision of the Prime Minister. I suggest to the House that that is what it was. Contemporaneously with the announcement for amalgamation the Prime Minister announced that a panel had been established. Its task was merely to advise the Government on arrangements for amalgamation. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

Just prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch, in this debate on the Tertiary Education Commission Bill I had drawn attention to the arbitrary way in which it was decided to amalgamate the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. Contemporaneously with the Prime Minister's announcement that this was to be done he announced that a panel had been established. Its task was merely to advise the Government on arrangements for amalgamation, not on the desirability or otherwise of the amalgamation. But the panel found that some of the groups it consulted expressed the view that the Commissions should not be amalgamated and that in any event so significant a decision should not have been made without prior consultation with interested parties or a national inquiry into tertiary education. 
The panel, limited as it was by its terms of reference, could not and did not comment on whether the amalgamation should come about but only on how it thought it could be achieved. The Australian Universities Commission, in its recent report on the question of the fourth university in Victoria, examined some aspects of the relationship between the various sectors of tertiary education, and stated:  . . . thai while there may be a case for changes in the present framework it would not be proper to bring these about without careful consideration of the consequences for tertiary education in each State and in Australia. 
Though this Bill does involve a significant change in the present framework there has not been an adequate opportunity for careful consideration to be given to the consequences of the change. That opportunity should have been given. We in the Liberal and National Country parties recognise the need to seek greater consultation between the bodies involved in tertiary education. But we also believe that much value has been obtained from the distinctive nature of the 2 commissions which this Bill amalgamates. As an expression of our concern about the implications of this Bill I shall move an amendment in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, this House: 
contends that insufficient time has been given to the Australian community to consider the implications of the report of the Panel to advise on arrangements for amalgamating the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education; 
asserts that the Bill does not acknowledge the disquiet held by members of the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education to the proposed amalgamation; 
believes that a national inquiry into tertiary education should have been established before any amalgamation of the Commissions was contemplated, and 
believes that the Bill considerably diminishes the role of the States in the structure of tertiary education and makes inadequate provision for the proposed Tertiary Education Commission to have proper consultation with the States and State Education Advisory bodies'. 
Though the panel could not consider the desirability of amalgamation it is evident from its report that the various suggestions put to the panel on the arrangements which it should recommend to bring about the amalgamation were influenced by attitudes to its desirability. Among the submissions made to it, the advisory panel identified three distinct views as to the form which the new commission could take. The Australian Conference of Principals of Colleges of Advanced Education supported the view that there should be established 'a unitary tertiary education body encompassing the university and advanced education sectors, and perhaps in time the TAFE sector as well '. It is a proposal which is in accordance with a recommendation contained in the report of the Martin Committee, as means of ensuring a balanced development of all forms of tertiary education in Australia. 
On the other hand, the Australian Vice Chancellors Committee supported the model described by the panel as model three which if adopted would have involved the retention of existing commissions with a small Tertiary Education Commission superimposed. This small Commission would have had the responsibility of advising the Government on balanced development between the two sectors of tertiary education. The Vice Chancellors Committee is critical of the proposals recommended by the panel. It regards it as quite unsatisfactory that the role of the proposed Universities Council should be limited to giving general assistance to the Commission and to the exercise of only such powers as are delegated to it. The Bill makes it quite clear that any functions to be performed by the Universities Council are subject to the direction of the Commission. The Principals of Colleges of Advanced Education are also critical. They see little point in the decision to amalgamate the two commissions, unless higher education is seen 'as having disparate ways of achieving community and individual needs and not as a hierarchical system '. 
Unless some consensus is first achieved as to the philosophy of higher education in Australia, change in the existing framework has the potential to bring about results which are neither desired nor anticipated. Until such a consensus is achieved, it may be worth experiencing some difficulty in co-ordination- if difficulty exists, and there has been no proof of this- rather than so rationalise tertiary education that the essential characteristics of its different sectors are lost. It is true that the panel did frame its recommendations as to the arrangements for amalgamation on the basis that the new body should recognise the policy of distinguishing between universities and colleges. Yet it places in the hands of the government a power to create by regulation a unitary system of education. The Bill contains no substantive definition of either a university or a college of advanced education. It contains no guide as to how one institution is to be distinguished from the other. If the Commission were to report to the Minister that all institutions were to be classified in the same way- either as universities or colleges of advanced educationthe Government could by regulation establish a unitary system. 
The Minister claims that the Government's recognition of the importance of maintaining the two existing systems is reflected in the present Bill. But there is no guarantee contained in the Bill that the Commission will want to maintain the two systems. Just as this Bill has been introduced without prior public inquiry into the changes proposed by it, so also following receipt of a report of the Commission the two systems would be amalgamated without prior public inquiry. 
Why the haste to bring about the amalgamation? It is true that 1976 is to be treated as a year outside the triennial program. But it is also true that the existing Commissions have been asked to present revised recommendations for the 1977-79 triennium. The Commissions making the recommendations are the best authorities to implement them. If these facts had been given proper weight the desirability of amalgamation could have been a matter of public debate over the next 2 or 3 years. Those in favour of a hierarchical system could have argued their case, as could those who see the organisation of tertiary education as a continuum and those who advocate a unitary system. If the Government wants to ensure the continuation of the valuable distinction between the two sets of institutions, why then without consulting them was it thought necessary to change the existing framework of commissions. 
Since the establishment of colleges of advanced education there has been much controversy over their role and their position in the pattern of tertiary education. When they were first given an enhanced status as the outcome of the Martin report the intention appears to have been to create divisions of higher education. The AUC has said that it sees the role of the colleges as being to provide education which is both complementary and alternative to that offered by universities. It has acknowledged that the functions of colleges will overlap those of universities with a consequent blurring of the distinctions. But though the AUC does not regard the Australian arrangement as instituting what could be described as a binary system of tertiary education it believes it should be viewed as 'a continuum of educational opportunities'. Yet it is apparently a continuum which may be divided, for in the same report the Commission mentions those differences between universities and colleges which distinguish them from each other. 
Though it is sometimes claimed that the 2 types of institution should be equal but different there are many who are involved with colleges of advanced education who would argue that they are different but unequal, and that they should be made equal by removing the differences. The Australian Commission on Advanced Education does not regard the extent of the differences as the important point so long as college councils ensure that the introduction of facilities and educational standards within the colleges are not paralleled by an erosion of their essentially vocational and community role. Yet colleges in their efforts to dispel the view that vocational educational is second rate compared with that which is described as academic education will continue to orient their courses towards the pure academic. It has been suggested that the college of advanced education system is in that phase of its development where it is examining ways of obtaining academic excellence. Will this be achieved only by a further blurring of those features which distinguish colleges of advanced education from universities? If the overlapping of functions increases and the blurring of distinctions continues, will universities and colleges of advanced education be identical by the 1980s as was forecast by  Dr Mathison? 
What then are the distinguishing features of a university? The Universities Commission, in its report on the proposal of the Government of Victoria to establish a fourth university in that State, acknowledged that it was difficult to define universities and colleges in generic terms. It did however say that it was possible to list typical characteristics which reflect differences in definition and purposes of colleges compared with universities. Some of the characteristics which it identified were that college courses tend to have a more applied emphasis and to be more vocationally oriented; that college students could be expected to have vocational rather than academic or scholarly interests; that colleges have a more flexible entrance requirement; that colleges have a more direct relationship with industry, commerce and other employing authorities; that colleges provide greater opportunities for parttime studies; that academic staffs at universities have a commitment to research; that universities offer higher degrees for research work; and that the commitment of universities to scholarship and research implies that they should have more substantial library facilities and scientific research facilities than colleges. 
The panel also reached the conclusion that they could not be defined in generic terms though their basic purposes could be differentiated as follows: 
The purposes for which universities are founded and for which society continues to maintain them include the preservation, transmission and extension of knowledge, the training of highly skilled manpower and the critical evaluation of the society in which we live. The primary emphasis of the colleges, on the other hand, is on the provision of vocational education to meet the known needs of society. Thus the universities are concerned with knowledge in a broad and dynamic sense while the colleges are concerned with the application of knowledge in a wide variety of occupations. Universities are elements in a world-wide community of scholarship and their effectiveness must be judged in that context as well as in the context of national needs. 
The panel then went on to classify their distinguishing characteristics: Firstly, those described as legal and formal and, secondly, those general differences in function where it listed somewhat similar characteristics to those listed in the University Commission's report. It drew attention to the contrast between the emphasis on vocational studies in colleges and that on pure studies in universities, the commitment of universities to research, the relationship of colleges to industry and commerce and the universities' concentration on degree courses compared with the emphasis in colleges on diploma courses. Professor Neal, Professor of Education at Adelaide University, said: 
Universities should hold fast to the belief that in them men may pursue intellectual curiosity and speculation even when it appears to have no practical usefulness whatsoever. If they betray that ideal, civilisation itself is in some peril. 
What I have said is enough to indicate that there is a need for us in this country to develop a clear philosophy on tertiary education. Without such a philosophy how can we be sure that we will have tertiary institutions which are, in Galbraith's words, 'a ferment- of ideas', which are places where learning includes the higher cultures of the past as well as the new discoveries of the future and where teaching is directed towards comprehension of the frontiers of knowledge? It will be most unfortunate if this Bill has the effect of imposing a philosophy without those involved having an opportunity to play a part in determining the philosophy which is to govern our approach to tertiary education. It is for that reason that I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, this House: 
contends that insufficient time has been given to the Australian community to consider the implications of the report of the Panel to advise on arrangements for amalgamating the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education; 
asserts that the Bill does not acknowledge the disquiet held by members of the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education to the proposed amalgamation; 
believes that a national enquiry into tertiary education should have been established before any amalgamation of the Commissions was contemplated, and 
d ) believes that the Bill considerably diminishes the role of the States in the structure of tertiary education and makes inadequate provision for the proposed Tertiary Education Commission to have proper consultation with the States and State Education Advisory bodies'. 
-When does the Treasurer expect to introduce legislation to implement the recommendations of the Mathews Committee to protect individuals from massive  unlegislated  tax increases? Is it a fact that such reforms will not involve any part of the present revenues but only unlegislated increases caused by the impact of  inflation on a progressive rate scale and on rebates expressed in nominal money values? How is the implementation of this scheme in any way affected by the future course of inflation other than to make the reform more urgent the higher the rate of inflation? 
-The Labor Party Opposition has failed to make out a case in support of the matter that the House is debating. It is nonsense to suggest that there has been any serious or permanent damage caused to the early childhood services program. If there has been any damage caused to it and the work of the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission that damage has been caused by the policies of the previous Labor Government. It was that government that caused the highest unemployment in Australia for 30 or 40 years and it was that government that caused an acceleration of inflation. Those 2 factors together in themselves have done damage to any child care program that any government, State, Commonwealth or local, chose to undertake. 
The Fraser Government, on coming to office, tackled the fundamental problems facing the Australian community, namely, to bring order where chaos now exists in the economy, to provide an economic climate where people can find employment, and to provide an economic climate where the stresses on the families of the nation are reduced so that mothers who wish to care for their children at home are able to do so. Today many mothers in the Australian community find that because of the pressures of taxation and the impact of the constant escalation in the cost of living they need to seek employment and therefore need access to substitute mother care for their children. If the economy were in better shape, if the tax burden on the incomes of their husbands were relatively reduced, they would be able to provide childhood services for their own children. In making that statement I am not denying that there are areas of need. 
The Opposition, in support of its argument in this debate, suggested that there had been serious cuts in the child care services program. Let us look at the Labor Party's record on the allocation of funds. In 1973-74 the Labor Government allocated 80 per cent of the funds then available to pre-school education. In the next year it allocated 70 per cent of the funds to that area. Pre-school education is important and there is need for more to be done in this area. There is a need to provide the children of a larger number of families with increased opportunities for and access to pre-school education. However, when a nation is upgrading the services that it provides for its children it needs to do so in a balanced and rational way. It has been impossible to have that balanced development with the sort of approach that the Labor Party had to this problem. 
Opposition speakers suggested in their arguments today that the Government should indicate what programs and what commitments will be cut. No commitment will be cut. Every commitment by the previous Government will be undertaken and fulfilled by this Government. It is stretching logic to the extreme to suggest that, because public applications for assistance are called and 600 or more are received, and there is to be a slowing down of the program due to the economic stresses of the time, those 600 applications or more should be regarded as a cut in a commitment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters  (Senator Guilfoyle)  have given assurances that every program in respect of which a commitment was made, every application in respect of which a commitment was made by the previous government, will be honored. 
It is true. No commitment, will not be fulfilled. It is true that in a limited number of instances the speed of fulfillment has been slowed down but this relates to a small number of cases. What this Government will do will enable much more to be achieved in the provision of care and education for the pre-school age children of this nation. It will assist community organisations, local government and State government to do more. The principal way in which this assistance will be provided will be in containing inflation. How many honourable members of this House are associated with or know of genuine hard working community groups in their electorates which are seeking to raise funds to provide a kindergarten, a preschool centre, a child care centre, a play group or some other form of family day assistance only to find that $500 raised the year before last will purchase this year only the equivalent of $300 worth of goods. 
The rate of inflation is so high that community groups, which necessarily invest their raised funds in savings bank accounts and investments of that nature, quickly find that the resources they have raised decline in value so rapidly that they get further and further behind rather than bringing the project to fruition out of their own efforts. We will enable community groups which wish to help themselves to help themselves. If they raise funds those funds will, with inflation under control, cease to lose value at the rate at which they have been losing it over the last 3 years. 
In conclusion I want to emphasise a factor about this whole issue. When we look at the matter of child care services and pre-school education it is terribly important that as a nation and as a government we should have a philosophy relating to the position of the family in the community. The Australian Labor Party in office did not believe in the family. So much of its legislation put on the family pressures that created a need for child care services where families were previously able to provide and wished still to provide those services for their children. The Labor Party's philosophy was to provide child care centres for every child when the best care that the great majority of children can receive is care from their own mothers. In developing a continuing program to fulfil the needs within the community the Government now in office will recognise the needs of families. It will enable young families to purchase homes and to make those purchases at times so that those families can have a normal home situation. 
This Government has pledged that it will look at the special problems imposed by the tax structure upon the single income family. It has also indicated that it will show concern for the family by enabling young school leavers to find jobs rather than to have their first experience out of school being on the dole. The Opposition has failed to make out its case. It was the Opposition when in government that destroyed the aspirations of families and those children who need child care, by creating a huge pool of unemployed in the country and by fanning the fires of inflation so that the value of the services that a government could provide out of the Budget resources available in real terms did less for the community than those resources should have achieved. 
The discussion is concluded. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In view of the Minister's announcement that he wishes to see an increased level of migration from the United Kingdom, does he contemplate an early relaxation of the strict criteria of eligibility now preventing many who want to migrate to Australia from doing so? Without such a relaxation, how does the Minister hope to increase migration to Australia from the United Kingdom? 
-Firstly, I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your appointment to that high office. I also congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his appointment. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the new members, in particular those from South Australia. I refer to the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter),  who has spoken tonight, and the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  The Governor-General's Speech not only outlines the Government's programs but also clearly identifies the ideals which will guideit in the way in which it will govern throughout its term of office. The Australian people want idealism to play a more important part in our politics. They should expect parliamentary and political debate to relate as much to the principles upon which programs are based as to the details of the programs themselves. It is not so much the programs described by  His Excellency  the Governor-General which distinguish his Speech on this occasion from those delivered on behalf of the previous 
Government; it is the underlying philosophy which the Government made clear in its expressed intention to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life in the way they decide. 
In Australian politics the difference between the present Government and the Opposition is the result of a conflict of philosophy, of different attitudes of mind and outlooks on life. It is my hope that as our programs are presented in legislative form the Government will make clear to the Parliament and to the people the principles upon which legislation is based. The immediate task of the Government is to overcome the twin problems of double digit inflation and high unemployment. Aspects of the Government's strategy to control inflation and to revive the economy have been dealt with by most speakers in this debate. It is my intention this evening to refer to 3 inter-related proposals. They are, firstly, the Government's undertaking to protect individuals from unlegislated tax increases; secondly, its undertaking to take account of the special problems of the single income family; and, thirdly, its undertaking to move towards a replacement of the means test with an income test. 
The Asprey Committee, following its final examination of the Commonwealth taxation structure, recommended frequent adjustment to the tax rate scale to take account of inflation. On the other hand, the Mathews Committee, following a more specific investigation into the effect of inflation on taxation, recommended automatic adjustment through indexation. Every wage and salary earner knows that over the last 3 years increases in money incomes have resulted in an increased tax burden. Wages and salaries were recently increased by 6.4 per cent, but the effect on a man with a wife and 2 children earning $160 week has been to increase his tax burden not by 6.4 per cent but by 1 8 per cent. He now pays a higher proportion of his total income in tax than he did before the wage increase. 
The great majority of taxpayers are now aware of the Hayden tax bite. They know that they were hoaxed by the Hayden Budget. The rebates made available in lieu of concessions at first sight appeared generous, but the apparent easing of the burden of taxation soon proved to be an illusion. Taxpayers have now discovered that the marginal rates of tax on low and middle incomes were viciously increased. They have found that the reductions in pay-as-you-earn tax deductions are merely advance payments of the tax refund that most taxpayers would have received under the pre-existing scheme at the end of the financial year. The special tax relief for expenditure on medical and similar expenses, on school fees, on rates and taxes, on insurance premiums and superannuation, has for all practical purposes been abolished. The general rebate of $540 gives no relief to a taxpayer with deductions amounting to $ 1,350 or less as compared with a taxpayer who has no such deductions. Both receive the same general rebate. In many respects rebates have advantages over concessional deductions, but the Hayden rebate system was a deceitful device designed to have taxpayers think that their burdens had been reduced when in fact an even higher proportion of their incomes was being taken in tax. The Labor Government and its several Treasurers had a vested interest in inflation. They knew that with the help of inflation they could gather into the Treasury coffers an ever-increasing proportion of personal incomes. 
In his policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made it clear that a Liberal Government would index personal income tax. He has promised that the taxation laws are to be amended so that minimum taxable income, rebate scales, dependant's and other flat rate allowances and rebates on concessional expenditure are to be automatically adjusted for inflation. In that way individuals will be protected from massive unlegislated tax increases. That protection is urgently needed. Its introduction should not be conditional on the success of the Government's economic program to control inflation. In fact, the higher the rate of inflation, the more urgent is the need for that protection. We must put an early end to inflation's secret tax rip-off. If the Government requires more money to solve the nation's economic problems it should legislate for it. 
If there is a need- and there is- to bridge the Labor induced Budget deficit, consideration should be given to the imposition of an explicitly designated bridging tax. It should not be bridged by imposing a host of inequitable taxes which become a permanent feature of the tax system. Taxpayers should be made aware of the extent to which they must now pay for Labor's mismanagement. We must be frank with the people. If we need money for these purposes, we should legislate for it. As the economy revives and the deficit is bridged such an explictly imposed Labor deficit bridging tax should be repealed. Until that occurs taxpayers must be aware that their increased tax burden is the price of 3 years of wanton and irresponsible socialist spending. 
The Government has said that it will introduce tax indexation because it believes it will help keep governments honest. But it will do more than that: It will prevent the distortion by inflation of the equity objectives of the tax structure. The relativities established by a progressive rates scale and rebates and concessions expressed in money terms can all be preserved in this way. If the percentage of personal income taken in tax is to remain the same as money income rise in response to the falling value of money there must be full indexation. Partial indexation would not bring about this result. It might control the growth of unlegislated income tax, but it would not eliminate the secret tax rip-off generated by inflation. Any legislation aimed at achieving indexation will need to be carefully drafted to ensure that it results in full and not partial indexation. 
But indexation alone will not result in a fair and equitable tax system. It will be important for the Government to examine the levels set for minimum taxable income, the rates scale, dependants' and other rebates and allowances customarily expressed in money terms. To imagine that the optimum level of equity would be achieved by indexing the existing tax structure would do a grave injustice to many taxpapers. This structure was adopted as the result of a compromise in which the equity between taxpayers with different incomes played only a minor part. In any event, it has already been grossly distorted by inflation. There is nothing sacrosanct about the existing mix and amounts of rebates and concessions. This House must not allow itself to be blinded to the need to legislate for significant improvements in overall equity. The tax system must be made fairer as well as simpler and more efficient. 
We will need also to look at the effect of tax on incentives- the incentive to work and the incentive to save- a topic touched upon by the honourable member for Barker in his excellent maiden speech delivered earlier this evening. Notwithstanding the fact that the literature on the effect of taxation on incentive is somewhat inconclusive, I am convinced from my day to day contacts with taxpayers that more and more people are asking themselves why they should slave their insides out for the government. We must take urgent action to reduce taxes below that level at which they corrode the will to work. Many people, particularly experienced, skilled workers at the peak of their productive years, are opting for tax free leisure and working less. Others retire early, sometimes on reduced pensions, rather than continue working for what to them is Utile additional income. The remainder, by necessity, battle on in an effort to achieve an after tax income which enables them to support their families and complete the purchase of a home. To restore incentive we should adopt the suggestion of the Asprey Committee and aim to reduce taxes so that the highest marginal rate imposed is 50c in the dollar. 
If the indexation of personal income tax were now in operation, substantial changes in tax brackets, rebates and deduction limits would operate in respect of 1976-77. To the extent that these changes are not made taxpayers will forgo a greater share of their real income without the Government being required to pass legislation explicitly to raise tax. Estimates by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and recent rises in the consumer price index indicate that the adjustment factor based on the Mathews formula which should be applied to existing tax brackets, rebates and deduction limits would be 13.2 per cent. If none of the desirable structural changes are made to the relativities established by the Hayden rebate system, indexation would result in the general rebate being raised from $540 to $61 1, that for a spouse being raised from $400 to $453, that for a child being raised from $200 to $226, that for rates and taxes being raised from $300 to $340 and that for education expenses being raised from $250 to $289. A wage or salary earner supporting a wife and 2 children may well find that he is forgoing income to the extent of more than $250 simply because of the impact of inflation. 
Unless the structure of the tax system is amended as if full indexation were in operation there will be next year a substantial real increase in taxation without there being any necessity for the Government to legislate for it. The effect of inflation on the current income tax structure is so serious that I urge the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to provide the public with a fuller explanation of its impact. I suggest that he should include in the Budget papers a statement designed to show the extent to which taxpayers will forgo income in 1976-77 as compared with 1975-76 as a consequence of tax indexation not being fully implemented. At some later stage I will havemore to say on the effect of this concept of tax forgone, but I want to turn now to the problems of the single income family. 
The Prime Minister gave the undertaking in his policy speech that a Liberal-National Country Party government would reform the tax structure to take account of the special problems of the single income family. In seeking to resolve these problems we need to consider the appropriateness of the unit of taxation. In Australia the income unit for tax purposes always has been the individual. This has been so despite the fact that for the majority of Australians it is the family unit which is the real decision making consumption unit. Many inequalities in society essentially reflect differences between families rather than between individuals. Our tax system increases these inequalities by imposing a tax burden on the single income family which is significantly higher than that imposed on the 2-income family with the same family income. The tax system should be redesigned to reduce these inequalities. 
I urge the Government to act on the recommendations of a majority of the Asprey Committee and to submit for public examination and discussion an optional family unit system of taxation. We should not be frightened off by the scaremongers who peddle misconceptions about the use of the family rather than the individual as a unit of taxation. There are a number of ways to assess the family unit for tax purposes. The imposition of tax on aggregate family incomes is not the only method. This is done in the United Kingdom but there most families pay less tax than they would had the spouses been taxed separately because the rebates available to those taxed separately on the family unit are not otherwise available. The approach I prefer is one which would permit spouses to be taxed on a partnership basis. There are many other variations, such as the definition of family incomethe division of family income by a factor which takes account of the number of dependent children. In redesigning the income tax structure and the social security program it is essential that every endeavour be made not only to achieve an equitable redistribution between the affluent and the needy but also to achieve an equitable distribution between the affluent periods and the needy periods in the income cycle of an individual taxpayer. 
Finally I turn to our undertaking to move towards replacing means tests with an income test. This is closely linked with the Government's promise to stand by its commitment to abolish the means test and its proposed examination of the effectiveness of guaranteed income proposals in overcoming poverty. The importance of helping those in most need is beyond dispute but the methods of doing so may not be. All too often the tests used to determine those in need are wrongly designed. In the short run a mechanism may appear to direct resources to those in need but in the long run the nature of the tests applied may be such that they create the very needs that they have sought to relieve, and create them on an even larger scale than they existed before. 
I urge all those who refer to the report of the Henderson committee for support of the view that those in need should be given priority to give equal weight to that Committee's recommendations that the means test should be replaced by an income test. Different tests are now applied to determine entitlement to pensions, to supplementary assistance and to fringe benefits. These tests result in so many anomalies and so much injustice that there is an urgent need to convert them into an income test which is properly integrated with the tax structure. The combined impact of the currently used means test is to impose on many pensioners an effective rate of tax well in excess of 50c in the dollar. For those in receipt of supplementary assistance the effective rate of tax is 100c in the dollar for each additional dollar earned while those means tested out of eligibility for fringe benefits may be in a position where an additional dollar earned costs them benefits worth $5 a week. Other pensioners find that an additional dollar earned may result in a tax liability of 27c in the dollar and a pension loss, due to the means test, of 50c in the dollar- an effective marginal rate of tax of 77c in the dollar, higher than the rate of tax paid by the people on the highest incomes. 
A comprehensive scheme of cash benefits with a consistent tax rate running through it as the best and only test of entitlement is urgently needed if the anomalies and injustices of the present scheme are to be removed. If an income test is to replace the present means tests the offset rates or marginal tax rates, including income tax, should not exceed 50c in the dollar unless the marginal income tax rate for that particular income in fact is higher. Only when reforms such as these have been achieved will we prevent the numbers of those in need expanding and thus enabling more to be done for those unable, for whatever reason, to provide in whole or in part for themselves. 
In conclusion I urge the Government, as a matter of urgency, to do 3 things: Firstly, to fully, not partially, index personal income tax; secondly, to introduce optional family unit taxation which permits spouses to be taxed on a partnership basis; and, thirdly, to replace all means tests with an income test integrated with the tax system. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to support the Social Services Amendment Bill and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill now being debated and to oppose the amendment. The major issue being dealt with in these Bills is the fulfilment of an election promise given by the Government in the election campaign preceding 13 December. That promise was an undertaking to adjust pensions in accordance with the consumer price index. It is public knowledge that the consumer price index over the 6 months ended 31 December 1975 rose by 6.4 per cent. A few weeks ago wage and salary earners, as a consequence of indexation in the wage system, received that increase. This legislation is designed to pass on that increase to the pensioner population. 
The point has been well made that although one can draw an analogy between the wage and salary earners and their indexed wage awards and the pension increase, there is a distinction and an important distinction. I want to stress that distinction, the pensioner who is dependent on a pension for his or her income is very susceptible to the pressures of inflation and without the knowledge that his or her income will be increased to reflect the effect of inflation, pensioners live in a situation of serious worry and concern about the future. 
The Government, as a significant plank in its election platform, promised to the nation's pensioners that their pensions would be automatically increased. The commitment was contained in the Government's social welfare policy. There it was expressed in these terms. It was stated that the Government would protect the benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months according to movements in the consumer price index. I am sure the House and the pensioners of the nation were assured today by the manner in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  answered a question on this topic because the word used was 'automatic'- not 'regular' but 'automatic'. I think there is a clear, identifiable distinction of emphasis between a regular adjustment in pensions and an automatic adjustment in pensions. The reference to automatic adjustment was also reflected in the words contained in the Governor-General's Speech. In that Speech he said: 
The Government proposes to introduce to the Parliament amending legislation to increase social service pensions and benefit rates every 6 months in accordance with movements in the Consumer Price Index. 
I want to draw to the attention of the House the place in which the reference to 'every 6 months' is to be found in that Speech. It was not expressed in these terms. The Governor-General did not say that the Government proposes to introduce every 6 months to the Parliament amending legislation to increase social service pensions, but the Speech indicated that the Government proposes to introduce amending legislation to increase social service benefit rates every 6 months in accordance with the consumer price index. I look forward to the day when the legislation is introduced whereby those increases take place automatically as a consequence of established legislation on the statute book and are not dependent on the introduction every 6 months of legislation to achieve that purpose. 
I am sure that the commitment contained in the Governor-General's Speech, reflected today in the very strong statement given by the Prime Minister, is an indication of the Government's good faith with the pensioners and the Government's intention to ensure that there is, as was expressed by the Prime Minister in his policy speech, a desire to ensure that there is a basic level of security below which no one can involuntarily fall. In circumstances in which there is a rapid rate of inflation people constantly fall below their present level as a consequence of the declining value and purchasing power of money. So in order to achieve the fulfilment of that undertaking it is necessary that we look to the automatic increase in the pension in accordance with the consumer price index. 
I was impressed with the speech of my colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and would adopt much of the argument that he put before this House. It is one thing to establish a relationship between the pension and some form of index that enables the pensioner income to maintain relative values in a changing economic climate; it is another thing to determine the link, the index, to which the pension payment should be fixed. The Government has chosen quite rightly in the current circumstances the consumer price index. Indeed it is interesting to note that in respect of the sixmonths period that we are now looking at, the pensions are to be increased by 6.4 per cent whereas average weekly earnings- another index often used to compare relatives in incomes from one time to another- on preliminary forecasts has increased in respect of that period by only 6. 1 per cent. 
It will be necessary in providing the pensioners with the safety net below which their incomes will not fall by relating it to the consumer price index, to go a further step to ensure that from time to time the relationship in real terms is maintained. We must take account of productivity and increases in national wealth so as to ensure that the pensioner population shares in that benefit. Otherwise pensioners will fall back in real terms in the income that they are entitled to enjoy. We must remember that the pension income does not only support those who have had an opportunity during their working lives to make some private provision for their old age. There are many who due to circumstances beyond their control, have not been able to do this. 
The pension is also paid to widows with dependent children whose circumstances are very different. In many instances they have had no opportunity to build up any means by which they can supplement the income that is available from the pension. For that pension on a long term basis to be merely related to the consumer price index will not ensure that those pensioner families, whether they be the aged or the widows with dependent children, share adequately and equitably in the growing wealth of this country. 
I was interested to read in the Minister's second reading speech that he sees as one of the objectives of the review of the income security system as a whole that is now taking place a desire to ensure that the amounts of pensions and benefits are determined and updated on a just and equitable basis. We have taken a significant step in making the announcement that the pension would be automatically increased in accordance with adjustments in the consumer price index. That commitment will be further confirmed when the time arrives for that automatic process to be put into legislative form. But the next and vital step in order to ensure that .there is justice and equity for those dependent upon the pension is to do what the honourable member for Perth so cogently pointed out this evening is necessary to assess the adequacy of the index to which pensions are related. 
It may well be that pensions may need to be looked at on a two-level basis. The first is an automatic adjustment in accordance with the consumer price index because of its effect in helping pensioners to adjust their incomes in accordance with the inflationary pressures. The second is a regular review to take account of productivity and increasing levels in average weekly earnings. As the honourable member for Perth pointed out, average weekly earnings as an index may not be adequate. After all, the changing pattern of single income and two-income families in themselves must throw into some doubt the adequacy in the future- in 10, 15 or 20 years time- of merely adjusting pensions against the income of one of a two-income family. Very often this pension is used to support a widow with dependent children or an aged person whose income has to support him or her in a single household. 
I turn now to another aspect that arises out of the Minister's second reading speech. I refer to the examination that is now going on into the income security system. We have heard much in criticism of this legislation from honourable members opposite. One of the greatest criticisms that can be levied can be levied at honourable gentlemen opposite for the fact that they have placed the Australian economy in the inflationary spiral which now exists. As pointed out by the Henderson committee, the people who suffer most as a consequence of inflation are often the poorest in the community. There are many of today's pensioners who, when they reached retirement some few years ago, through hard savings and hard work had put aside some resources that they thought would be adequate to look after them in their old age. But the value of those savings was reduced by 50 per cent as a consequence of the policies of honourable members opposite. So whereas today we are putting up the pensions to adjust to the consumer price index, we cannot directly arrest the decline in the puchasing power of pensions resulting from the inflation caused by the defeated Labor Government. Pensioners have now become even more dependent upon their pension income. 
When we look at systems for income security, I hope that we will study very closely the recommendations of the Henderson committee with regard to the operation of the means test. We must, at the earliest opportunity, move from a means test to an income test- a test which, in the words of the Henderson committee is a 'rational integration of the pension means test with other income tested benefits and with the income tax'. At the present time, some pensioners who suffer a loss of pension because of the operation of the means test and who pay a tax which was imposed by honourable gentlemen opposite, pay a rate of tax that is higher than the rate of tax paid by those in the community on the highest incomes. It is time that we moved our whole structure of pensions and the operation of an income test to a situation that in the words of the Henderson committee 'assures all citizens of a logical sequence of income retention rates as private income rises'. 
I do not believe that any pensioner should suffer a loss of income at a rate greater than 50 per cent as a consequence of the operation of the means test while that remains or of tax which is payable on pension income as well as other income. I do hope that the committee looking into the income security system will give this whole matter the most careful consideration. As a result of inflation, the several means tests that now operate are having a very severe effect on those people who lose benefits as a consequence of it. For example, the first $400 of a pensioner's saving is exempt altogether from the operation of the means test. When that $400 level was first introduced, it was a significant sum. Today, as we have heard in this debate, that sum would not even pay for the funeral of a pensioner. So long as we have a means test- I hope it will be abolished as quickly as possible m accordance with the commitment to abolish the means test contained in the speech of the Prime Ministerwe must be prepared to examine the various limits that can affect people as a consequence of the declining value of money. The other means test which gets tighter and tighter as time goes on as a consequence of inflation induced by honourable gentlemen opposite is that which affects those entitled to fringe benefits. I know of many cases of people who have sought to improve their position by taking a job. A young widow in my electorate with 2 dependent children and with a part-time job is faced with the consequence that if she takes the money to which she would be entitled as a consequence of the rise in wage rates she will lose the fringe benefits which in her case are probably worth between $8 and $10 a week. But if she accepts the income to which she is entitled as a consequence of the time she is prepared to work she loses those benefits. These anomalies must be removed, and at the earliest opportunity. I am delighted that the Government is looking into the whole income security system. I hope that it comprehends an examination of the operation of the means test in all these respects. 
I now turn very briefly to the question of funeral benefits. There has been much debate at an emotional level in respect of the Government's decision in this regard. I would urge the Government to set up a review to examine ways and means of giving people the security of knowing that they have made adequate provision for their funerals. This is a topic that worries many aged people. It worries far more than it need worry because, as has been pointed out by the Minister, many more pensioners have adequate resources. But many of them like to be assured that adequate provision has been made for them. I do not believe that there are adequate structures which enable pensioners to provide for themselves through funeral benefit funds. I think this is a matter which should receive the attention of the Department of Social Security. The Department should examine legislation operating in each of the States to ascertain the circumstances in which funeral benefit funds now exist or can be set up and to get some assurance as to their actuarial liability and the standards of their management so that those who wish to provide for their funeral payments can do so in an easy way to enable them to have the assurance that resources will be available to meet those commitments when the time comes for their funeral to be conducted. I do not think the question of $40 is the real nub of the issue. The real problem is the circumstances in which people can provide for that commitment. Finally, I want to turn - 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
How many members of the Public Service are currently entitled to long service leave. 
What would be the cost to the Government if all public servants entitled to long service leave were to take that leave. 
What is the estimated cost to the Government of public servants accruing long service leave until retirement and then taking payment for such leave as a lump sum. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the Grants Commission currently engaged in preparing a report on the proportion of the local government share of income tax which should be allocated to each of the States? If local government bodies are to receive an early indication of their individual shares of these allocations, is it essential that State grants commissions be established by State parliaments as soon as possible? Should local government in South Australia be concerned that to date no announcement has been made by the State Government that a State grants commission will be set up at a session of the State Parliament convened for the purpose? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree that indexation of personal income tax will involve not a true cost to the present revenues but only a diminution of those unlegislated increases caused by the impact of inflation? Does he also agree that, to the extent to which personal income tax is not fully indexed, the Government will continue to have available to it a significant source of revenue for which it is not required to legislate? Is it desirable that features of the tax system which result in unlegislated increases in tax should be removed from the system sooner rather than later? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What proportion of the 1 8 cents cost of posting a standard letter is absorbed by the (a) direct costs and ( b) indirect costs of (i) collection from mail receivers, (ii) primary sorting at mail exchanges, (iii) delivery from mail exchanges to post offices and from post offices to post offices, (iv) secondary sorting at post offices and (v) delivery from post office to private letter boxes. 
-The Commonwealth Grants Commission Bill which is before the House is a significant piece of legislation in that it is part of a framework introducing the Fraser Government's new federalism policy. We heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  a long dissertation on regionalism, but what he failed to tell the House, as he failed to tell the people when he was in government, is that the Labor Government sought to use regionalism as a means by which to change the structure of government in this country. No one would deny the importance of the various spheres of government co-operating and working together for the common good of the people, for it is quite clear that very often the implications of a program or a proposal extend beyond the boundaries of one local government body, beyond the boundaries of a State, and affect wider areas. But the use of the need for an examination of that type of inter-relationship as a cloak to cover a mechanism designed to change the political structure in this country needs clear identification. 
The reason why the Labor Government in office pressed to establish regions, which in fact were not used by the Grants Commission other than as an easy way in which to receive evidence from the 900 local government bodies throughout Australia, was that it ultimately wished to change the structure of government in Australia in order that legislative power could be centralised in Australia. We in the Government today do not believe that legislative power should be centralised. We believe that it is in the best interests of the Australian nation that legislative power should be distributed among 3 spheres of government.' We believe that wherever possible the power to legislate should be as close as possible to the people affected by the decisions involved in that legislation. That is an attitude to government which is diametrically opposed to that expressed by members of the Opposition, the previous Government. They sought to abolish the States. They sought to abolish local government and they sought to substitute in its place, not a second tier or sphere of government with legislative responsibilities, but administrative regions. All the policy decisions were to be taken here in Canberra by a centralist government remote from the people. 
It is our view that in the interests of a democratic nation, it is important that power be distributed, that there be checks and balances. Had it not been for the checks and balances contained in our Constitution, with the States being vested with certain powers that enabled them to prevent the rush to centralism by the previous Labor Government, we could well find ourselves today in the position of being a centralist nation with a government that was, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr E.  G. Whitlam), ' a unitary system of government, a unicameral system of government', in other words, one Parliament only with no Senate representing .the diverse interests of the 6 States of the Commonwealth, with no States with legislative power and with a capacity to check the excessive abuse of power by a power hungry centralist government. We in the Liberal and National Country Parties, in putting into operation our federalism policy, do so because we believe that in the short run it will be in the interests of the Australian nation and that in the long run it will be to the great benefit of the Australian people. Amongst other things, it will not only take decision-making power closer to the people, but more importantly it will entrench guarantees that protect the Australian democracy, the right of the Australian citizen to have a say in the way in which his country is governed. 
There is no doubt that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in a quite clever and subtle fashion while he was Minister in charge of urban affairs, pretended that he wanted to co-operate with local government. To some extent he succeeded in convincing some people that he was genuine, but in fact he was merely being the fall guy to achieve the purposes of his Leader who wanted fewer local government bodies and, as he said, more States. He did not want States in the sense that we understand them today- States of sovereign governments with a legislative power and capacity- but administrative regions. He, in his regionalism policy, was seeking to establish the structures that would enable him to so destroy the States and at the same time abolish local government bodies as representative forms of government, replacing them with administative regions implementing the policies determined here m Canberra. 
As I mentioned earlier, this comment about the importance of looking at the structure of government, determining whether or not one believes in a distribution of power in order to prevent its abuse, is not an argument which denies the importance of adjoining local government bodies concerning themselves about the effect of their own decisions upon their neighbours. We in the Liberal and National Country Parties hope that as the strength of local government is improved local government will recognise that it has not only a role within its own area but also a role that sometimes affects the areas surrounding it. We hope that as local government's role is enlarged under our policy local government will continue and expand the co-operative mechanisms that were advanced as the justification for the introduction of a policy of regionalism. I have no doubt that in those areas where advantage is to be gained from co-operation, local government will do just that. 
The Bill before the House is designed to remove some inappropriate references to local government- inappropriate now because of the introduction of our federalism policy. But it is also designed to empower the Grants Commission to advise the Government with regard to assistance to local government. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in his speech to the House this evening, tried to tell us that local government would be a victim of the decisions taken by State Premiers. The fact is that local government knows how much money it will receive for the year 1976-77. It will receive $ 140m- 75 per cent more than it received under the last Labor administration. Not only will it receive that amount in the coming year, but it has an assurance that it will receive in the following years the amount that that $ 140m represents as a percentage of this year's income tax. Something of the order of 1.5 per cent to 1.6 per cent of income tax will in the years to come automatically go to local government. As a result, local government can plan ahead in the knowledge that it will receive a guaranteed share of income tax, a guaranteed revenue base that will increase as the tax collections increase as money wages rise. In the future local government will not fall victim to the same extent it has in the past, of the inflationary pressures on its own wage structure due to the rigidity of its previously limited revenue base. 
This policy has expanded the revenue base of local government; as a result local government can expand. What does that mean for the average citizen? It means a great deal. Much has been said of the rising cost of council rates. Local government can now take account of the fact that a significant proportion of its revenue will be derived from its share of income tax on a percentage basis. It means that in the current year, taking it on a broad basis across the nation, there is a distribution to local government of approximately $10 a head throughout the nation. If one puts it on a household basis, it would be something of the order of $30 to $35 a household. If the distribution were upon that basis, that is the extent to which householders would otherwise have had to pay in additional rates if it were not for the introduction of this aspect of the federalism policy. 
The money will be distributed under a 2-level formula. The Grants Commission- and this legislation is designed to achieve this aspect of the program- is charged with the responsibility of distributing, or recommending the distribution of, that $140m as between the States. In each State a proportion of the State's share will be distributed on a  per capita  basis, sometimes weighted to take account of such matters as distance and area. Each State is being asked to put forward its recommendations. I have no doubt that the Grants Commission is also being asked to express a view as to the amount to be distributed in each State on a  per capita  basis. The reason for looking at it on a State for State basis is that some States like Victoria, closely settled and relatively small in area, may find that they are in a position where they want a greater proportion on an equal  per capita  basis than a State like Western Australia or Queensland where distances are much greater. The balance of the money will be distributed between the local government bodies by the State grants commissions. 
At the Premiers Conference in April all the Premiers agreed to set up State grants commissions. But no action has been taken in some States. There was no announcement in South Australia until I flushed out of  Mr Virgo,  the Minister for Local Government in South Australia, the Dunstan Government plans to carry out the undertaking that Premier Dunstan gave at the Premiers Conference. Even then all that I have been able to achieve is a statement from  Mr Virgo,  the Minister for Local Government, that he might introduce grants commission legislation in two or three months time. He is reluctant to do it as he thinks the necessary work could have been done in Canberra by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
In my view a grants commission composed of experts with an understanding of local government in South Australia could, if it were effectively established, do as good, if not a better, job in distributing the equalisation grants to local government in that State. It is time that the Labor Government in South Australia got off its seat and started legislating and governing in a way to assist the people of that State. All that that Government is doing is bellyaching because it is not prepared to carry out its own responsibilities of governing. Notwithstanding the praise of the federalism policy given by Dunstan following the Premiers Conference, his Ministers are now criticising it. The only reason I can identify - 
-The only reason I can identify for their criticism is that they want to implement their grandiose schemes but want someone else to raise the funds. That is why they are frightened of the federalism policy. They want a fairy godmother to give them money so that they can waste it on their own gradiose schemes without the responsibility of directly facing their own electors. The criticism of State government critics of the federalism policy is based on that reason. Such governments are not prepared to govern. They are not prepared to raise the revenues in respect of the policy decisions that they expect and wish to make on behalf of the people in their own State. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition interjected a few moments ago with the words: 'Ask Willis'. I gather from his interjection that he was expressing a phoney argument that was circulated by members of the Labor Party in the recent New South Wales State elections about alleged double taxation effects of the federalism policy. The policy does not involve double taxation. I was interested to read in the Queensland Courier-Mail of 17 May- a week ago last Mondaya leader article headed: 

 The new federalism does NOT mean double taxation. 


 Mr Kenneth Wiltshire, the writer of that article who is senior lecturer in government at the Queensland University said, amongst other things, that the federalism policy did not in any way involve double taxation. He said that there will be one tax return and one tax paid by the taxpayer. What the taxpayer will know, and will know for the first time, is the proportion of his tax that is payable to State government, the proportion that is payable and used by the Commonwealth Government and the amount of revenue out of his tax on a percentage basis that is going to local government. 
The time under the Labor Government involved Australian taxpayers in a doubling of taxation. The massive amount of taxation that was collected meant that State governments were able to spend money that they did not have the responsibility of raising. If democracy is to continue and a federal system is to last it is very important that each sovereign level of government have the capacity to raise through its own efforts a large proportion of the revenue required to fund its expenditure obligations. Independent political authority must imply an independent fiscal authority. The need for each level of government to have matching political and fiscal powers is quite apparent. The problem in Australia has been that the political power of the States has not matched their fiscal power. As a result of this disequilibrium, the fact that they have not had matching fiscal powers to what has been their constitutional political responsibility has resulted in a centralisation of decision making in the hands of the government that has had the fiscal power. A measure of political power and authority is the ability to make spending decisions. If a government does not have the ability to raise funds it ends up losing the ability to make decisions. Labor wanted the States to lose that ability so it gave them tied grants. It made them spend the money in accordance with the decisions of the Commonwealth Government. "We in the Liberal and National Country Parties want to reverse that trend. We want to guarantee the continued existence of the federal system where the power is distributed through the 3 spheres of government. We want to ensure that wherever possible legislative power is matched by a responsibility to raise funds to fulfil the decisions of that level of government and that the decision making should be as close to the people as possible. This Bill is a step towards the achievement of that goal. Therefore I support the Bill and urge its early passage. 
Mt  ANTONY WHITLAM (Grayndler) ( 8.57)- As the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  said, this is an important piece of legislation. This small Bill of some 16 clauses has one purpose and one effect; that is to remove the access, the direct access, of local government to the Grants Commission of this nation. In future local government will have access only through the States if the States choose to grant access, if the States choose to be the spokesmen for local government. There will be no access for local government as such. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  delivered what I thought was one of the best speeches in this House in respect of some of the difficulties of regionalism. He did not say that regionalism was the answer to all the problems of administering this country, of delivering the services and structuring government. But he did talk about regionalism as a dynamic instrument for getting around some of the old static organisation of federal, State and local government. He talked about how this arrangement was working.  His  remarks deserved the attention of every member of this House. However, I do not believe he was getting this attention. I cannot believe that the honourable member for Sturt was listening to what he had to say because the honourable member came back again and again to the word 'federalism'. We hear a lot in this House about the policy of federalism. But this policy is nowhere evident in this Bill. All this Bill deals with is the access of local government bodies to the Grants Commission of this country. 
If one wants to be a purist, federalism is something that can occur only between States and some federal compact. When one talks about the 3 levels of government one is talking about nothing that is magical; one is talking about nothing that is an inherent part of federalism. There is no reason why there could not be four, five or six levels of government, as indeed, on a super refined view there may very well be. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is at the table, acknowledges this when he talks about having to acknowledge certain specific purpose authorities which carry out local government type functions. So federalism is a phoney concept. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that private nursing homes can increase the fees charged only with the approval of his Department? Is it a fact that approved fees are rising due to increases in wages and other operating costs? Are these increases matched by a commensurate increase in nursing home benefits? Will the Minister consider indexing these benefits at a level which would leave patients in a majority of these homes with adequate personal spending money? 
I rise to speak in this debate to deal with one particular aspect which was touched upon by my colleague earlier. I refer to cable television. The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill proposes an amendment to the principal Act to enable the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to licence television translator stations. The proposed amendment does not go far enough. It is totally inadequate, and its inadequacy is a clear illustration of the inadequate efforts of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in dealing with the whole policy relating to broadcasting and television. We are told in the second reading speech that the purpose of this amendment is to enable translator stations to be licensed in areas that now receive television signals but which receive those signals from a community different from that in which they live. The illustration is given of people who live in Mount Gambier or people who live east of the South Australian border who would prefer to receive signals from Melbourne rather than from Mount Gambier because the signals from Mount Gambier contain a South Australian community interest. 
Under this amending Bill we are planning to give the Board power to licence these translator stations to provide an added service to people who already have a service. Under this Bill we are thinking of putting in translator stations and expecting the Australian Broadcasting Commission and Telecom Australia, with their funds, to give resources to remote communities. Yet we have in the midst of our cities remote communitiescommunities which, because of the humbug and bumbling of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, have no television signals or inadequate television signals available to them. In fact, in metropolitan Adelaide there are a number of people today who are unable to get signals at all- or if they can get them the signals are inadequate. Some 500 or 600 households depend on cable television- community antenna television services. But the licensees of these services have been making losses. 
They have sought over the years to expand their services in order to make the operation viable. But what has happened? They went to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, but it bumbled around and referred them to Telecom. Telecom then looked at the matter. It does not have the resources to do anything, and the paper war went on. Telecom referred the matter back to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The result is that an elector of mine for years has been writing, firstly, to the cable provider who says that he cannot provide the service and then, secondly, to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board who says: 'It is not us; it is Telecom'. Telecom then says: 'It is not us; it is the Australian Broadcasting Control Board'. During all of this time that citizen has no television service. Later this year, because of the inefficiencies of the Board, 500 households in Adelaide will cease to have access to television services, because the provider has announced that it will not renew its licence. That provider went to the Board and asked that it be enabled to make its operation more efficient. It asked whether it could be given a guarantee of future operation. But, no, we look at a report. Reports are always being made in the Australian Broadcasting Control Board area. If it wants to put off considering a matter, it has a report. The report says that the Government should take it over. Yet the same reportTelecom  2000,  which is the latest one- says that Telecom will not have the resources. Yet private enterprise has demonstrated that it has the resources, and it has put in the network. Now there is no policy, and die reason we have no policy is the inadequacy of the Board to which I have referred. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended I was speaking on the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. I remind the House that this Bill has 2 major aspects. The first seeks to implement the Government's decision to ensure that cigarette advertising on the electronic media is banned from a little later this year, and I support that proposal. But it was the second aspect of the legislation to which I was drawing attention. I said- I believe this to be the casethat the proposals before this House are inadequate. The inadequacy of the proposals has demonstrated the inability of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to come up with an acceptable policy with regard to television and radio licensing. 
Attention has been drawn in various reports to the fact that there are many people in our capital cities who as a consequence of the physical features of those cities do not receive radiated television, or if they receive it the signal they receive is totally inadequate compared with the best signals in other areas. The Control Board was aware of this difficulty as far back as 1968. But throughout that period there has been a constant battle- a battle of bureaucracies- over this issue, with the Control Board passing the buck to Telecom and Telecom passing the buck back to the Control Board, the consequence being that the only loser has been the citizen, the person who would like to receive television. 
The Government in this legislation says that it is doing wonders for people living in remote areas because it is going to permit the Control Board to authorise the establishment of more translator stations. It is going to enable people living in western Victoria to receive through translator stations signals out of Victorian television stations. But these people already receive television signals out of the stations in Mount Gambier. They already have the pleasure and benefit of receiving information that comes over the television media. But there are many people in my electorate in metropolitan Adelaide- from Tea Tree Gully to Darlington and right around the foothills- who are unable to receive a television signal. It was suggested by the Board a number of years ago that community aerial television systems, known as CATV systems, should be established to enable these people to have the benefit of television. Those systems were established. But one of the problems that confronted the operators of those systems was that they were permitted to transmit down the cable only those signals radiated by the television stations. The operator of the cable television system could not offer any extra for the additional licence fee which was formally charged and the only licence fee that is now charged to those people receiving their television signal in this way. 
I have urged the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  I again ask him to consider this- to expand the legislation now before us so that it is not merely limited to the provision of translator services in circumstances where the community of interest demands that people have a signal other than that received from the normal radiated stations but that in the case of cable television the Board is allowed to have a discretion to consider applications and to recommend, where it believes this proper, that the operator be able to send alternative and additional programs. As a demonstration of its inadequacies, shortsightedness, conservatism and lack of policy the Board, I understand, refuses to accept the responsibility of considering such recommendations. Why does it refuse? Can it not see that as a consequence of its total inadequacy in this area many people are not receiving television signals, and many who now receive signals in metropolitan Adelaide will no longer receive them from later this year. Cablevision, one of the operators, has found it so difficult to get any idea about the future of its cable system from the Broadcasting Control Board or Telecom that it has indicated that it will not renew its licence. Thus a large number of people in the Adelaide suburbs will have their television reception cut drastically in the near future. Some households will receive no signal while others will not receive all the channels or will have very poor reception. 
As I mentioned, there are more than 5000 homes from Tea Tree Gully to Darlington which cannot receive a totally satisfactory level of television reception. To overcome this problem a number of people in the worst hit areas have subscribed over a number of years to companies providing television reception by means of cables which run from a large aerial in a good reception area to the homes affected. The CATV system has been established in a number of countries and has been a proven success. Yet its development in Australia is being hampered by lack of initiative on the part of Telecom and the Control Board. 
The fact that Cablevision is not renewing its licence places fairly and squarely before Telecom and the Control Board the challenge of doing something about this problem. Provision for a translator station was made when the Telecom building was constructed in Adelaide. This fact has been kept pretty quiet whilst the commercial operator has been led along to the point where he has been losing $16,000 to $20,000 a year. Yet Telecom and the Control Board expects the operator to continue. Now I am told in following representations that the Control Board has asked Telecom whether it will take over the operation of the system. I am told that Telecom is thinking about it; that it is investigating it. Telecom has been investigating this matter for more than a decade, and it is time that its investigations ended and that there was some action. It may be that the Control Board should proceed immediately to recommend to the Minister, and the Minister should announce, that a translator will be established on one of the tall buildings in metropolitan Adelaide. This would provide over 10 000 homes in the Adelaide foothills with a television signal of better quality or a television signal for the first time. The problem in Adelaide is mirrored in Sydney and in other major population centres. 
Action should be urgently taken in this matter. If the Control Board is unwilling to allow cable television to develop in a viable fashion it must be willing to enable translator stations to be established, and the establishment of those translator stations should not be left to the whim of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. If Adelaide's commercial television stations are prepared to invest the $30,000 to $50,000 necessary to establish a translator station, they should be allowed to proceed forthwith. Telecom should be required to make the stand for the translator station immediately available. The Broadcasting Control Board over the years has set its face against the development of cable television. Canberra could have been a cable city and if it had been many believe we would not have that expensive monstrosity on Black Mountain. With the new technologies that are available it would have been possible, with appropriate investment, to ensure that adequate television signals could be delivered to households in this city in a more efficient and more effective fashion than by using the radiated system. 
Likewise, in the foothills of metropolitan Adelaide the people of their own initiative, through private enterprise- a private operatorwould have had television available to them. But the humbug that I referred to before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that has existed within the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has resulted in that company and others firstly being unable to extend the operation of their networks to the full licensed area and secondly to develop an adequately viable service. What I have urged upon the Minister- I hope that in the remaining time before we reach the Committee stage he will give it consideration- is that this legislation should be amended further and that it should enable a licensee of a cable television network to deliver to the terminal point signals other than those radiated over the radial networks of broadcast television stations. 
The licences could be limited to those households which would not otherwise receive the signals over the airwaves. The system would not come into competition in any way with the radiated signals. It would mean that people who cannot get the airwave signal would be able to receive television. But oh no, the Control Board, Telecom or a mix of the two are so determined to preserve their own little empires, so unwilling to facilitate the services that people are entitled to receive, that they refuse even to allow this Parliament to suggest that they should be given the responsibility of considering applications. It would not cost a cent. It amazes me to think that they are not prepared even to have the power to consider applications where the circumstances warrant. Situations I envisage where applications would warrant consideration would be those cases where they would not be in any way in competition with the existing television and broadcast stations, where a service would be provided to people who would not otherwise get it. 
From later this year many of those people who have been receiving a service are not to receive that service unless, to my great surprise, the Broadcasting Control Board receives from Telecom in the next few weeks a delightful little letter that says: 'Yes, we will operate that cable system. We will extend it at an annual loss rate at the moment of $20,000 a year.' Alternatively, will the Broadcasting Control Board authorise the establishment of a translator station using the ultra high frequency band on the Telecom building in Adelaide? Is it so jealous of its frequency bands that it will continue to deprive the people of the foothills of metropolitan Adelaide of television services? It is time the Broadcasting Control Board and Telecom faced reality, began to serve people and stopped the bureaucratic hassle that has prevented these people receiving the sorts of services that every Australian has come to expect and most now receive. 
-I thank the Minister for his assurance that the problem to which I referred will be looked at as a matter of urgency with the aim of finding a solution. I am, of course, disappointed that the amendments we are now looking at specifically limit the power in granting licences for community television aerial systems to programs that may be received from nearby television stations. The problems here arise from a number of factors. We need to ask ourselves whether at any time cable television will be used in this country. If the answer is yes, the next question must be: Who is to provide it? The Australian Telecommunications Commission and the report following the last broadcasting inquiry have suggested that the Commission should own the physical transmission plant, but in  Telecom 2000  attention was drawn to the problem of resources. That document said that if the Commission is not able to marshal the resources or for some other reason of policy is not prepared to provide cable television it would be difficult to resist the forces of entrepreneurs and citizens who group together for the purpose of trying to receive a signal that others receive. 
So if we are to have cable television and it is to be government operated, the authorities which are to hold the monopolies over it must be given the resources to enable them to provide that service. If private entrepreneurs are to be encouraged into the area, and it has been proven they could do the job from a technical point of view, they must be given the opportunity of running viable alternatives. It is terribly difficult, when all of us pay nothing for our television signal, because there is no television licensing these days, for a cable provider to say: 'We can provide you with the television signal but you must pay a rent or a licence fee. All I can offer are the same signals that come out of the television station. ' Everyone else is getting them for nothing, but the people in difficult areas are having to pay something for them. The Minister has recognised in his assurances to me that there is an inequity in that situation. Just for the record I shall read the amendment I would like to have seen incorporated in this legislation. I think there should have been a provision as follows: 
The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Board, grant a permit to a person to use a telegraph line for the purpose of transmitting television programs from a receiving aerial maintained by that person for the reception of television programs to television receivers and for transmitting other services approved by the Board to the television receivers situated in an area specified in the permit. 
If, in providing a cable service, the only way to make it viable is to grant permission for the provision of services in addition to those transmitted by the television stations, I see no reason why the legislation should prevent that from being done. I spoke at length earlier in the debate. I still feel as strongly about it. I hope that all the inquiries into the overall structure of our television and broadcasting system will be concerned with not only reconstructuring the system so that we get a more efficient operation of it but also restructuring it so that we can have a policy that ensures the maximum communications for the community at large. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What reduction could be made in the backlog of deferred applications for telephones if the construction staff and resources allocated to the giant co-axial cable project announced by Telecom in a press statement dated 5 May 1976 were diverted to providing telephone services to those who have applied for them or are likely to apply for them in the immediate future. 
How many and what proportion of the deferred applications for telephones are there in each of the States. 
How many and what proportion of the deferred applications for telephones are there in (a) Adelaide, (b) Brisbane, (c) Canberra, (d) Hobart, (e) Melbourne, (f) Perth and (g) Sydney. 
What steps are being taken to reduce the number of deferred applications, particularly in those States and cities where the proportion is higher than average. 
-I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Did Press reports which appeared following his recent visit to Adelaide correctly represent his views on the desirability of the Monarto project? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that those tax rebates now indexed include the general rebate and the dependent wife's allowance? If rebates for dependent children had been retained, is it likely that they too would have been indexed? In view of this is it intended that family allowances which have replaced the rebates for dependent children will be indexed so that they retain their real value? Will the Government give consideration to increasing in real terms those benefits which are paid in respect of young children of preschool age? 
-In the very limited time at my disposal I want to draw the attention of the House to 2 significant aspects that arise out of the Budget. Firstly, I draw attention to the very forward looking and major changes that have been taken with regard to family allowances. This social reform is of very great significance. Families, particularly families with young children, have been and still are under immense pressure. That pressure, to some extent, is relieved by the innovation of the family allowances. This new scheme will place inD the hands of the mothers in the community some income over which they have complete and total discretion. It is a step that has been long needed. It is my hope that it is the beginning of further underpinning of the family. 
It is the policy of the Government to recognise the family as the cohesive force in society, and the Government's aim is to give recognition to the necessity of strengthening its influence. I think it is terribly important that the country develop a philosophy for the family. There are too many families in Australia who take the position of the family for granted. They are unaware that the family as they understand it is under threat. There is in the community a significant and vocal group which believes that the care of children from a very young age should be the primary responsibility of the state. There is, however, in the large silent majority of families a strongly held view that the primary care of young children should be given by their mother in a comfortable, secure family setting. This reform for family allowances will enable an increasing number of families to do just that. But I urge upon this House and upon those families which have that desire and aspiration to recognise that they must express their views, and express them publicly. There are those who would by guile and by the use of emotive argument seek by various devices to redirect the concern of the community in such a manner that substitute care becomes the inevitable and accepted thing for the community as a whole. One has only to read some of the literature that is available from time to time to discover that there are many who have an ideological commitment to changing the nature of society and replacing the normal family care of children with a substitute care- care by the state- of young children. 
The family allowances that have been introduced will relieve to some extent the economic pressure on families that up until now have faced increasing difficulty in gaining sufficient resources to enable the mother to be the primary care giver of young children during the preschool years. Implicit in the question which I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  a couple of weeks ago was the thrust of the argument I am now putting. 
Debate interrupted. 
As I have said, there are many people in the community who would like to see the young children of this country become the primary responsibility of the State rather than being the primary responsiblity of their families. This Budget, containing as it does provision for the necessary funds to enable the new family allowances to continue to be paid, will assist those young families to meet the financial commitments involved in caring for young children.In a question I asked the Treasurer about a fortnight ago I urged upon him that when reviewing family allowances he do 2 things. Firstly, I asked that he maintain the real value of the family allowances that are now payable and, if possible, index them so that they rise in a regular fashion and so that young couples either raising a family or planning a family can do so in the knowledge that family allowances will provide in real terms a significant contribution to the family income. Further, I asked the Treasurer to look into the possibility of raising in real terms the family allowances payable to mothers with young children of pre-school age. 
It is quite clear, if one studies the Borrie report, that a great majority of mothers of young children are at home caring for their children. It may be argued by some who would like to see substitute care provided for every child that the reason those mothers are at home is that they do not have child care centres where they can place their children. I think there is another interprettation of the facts; that is, that those mothers prefer to be at home with their children and need support services to enable them to continue to be the primary care givers for those children. Those support services include the provision of a higher family income to enable parents to provide for their families the standard of living the community has now come to expect. If it is possible when the children of a family are at school for the mother to work and she chooses to do so- and over 50 per cent of mothers in the community make that choice- then in those circumstances the family has 2 incomes, but families with young children are very often dependent on only one income. 
There is an urgent need for careful examination of family incomes to ensure that families with young pre-school children have sufficient income. That income can be supplemented by the provision of substantially higher family allowances. Furthermore, such families need the support of a whole range of childhood services that are not based upon the idea of child care, which in the minds of so many people conjures up the idea of substitute care. This idea of substitute care is conjured up because within the community we have not identified clearly enough our philosophy for the family. As I said in my opening remarks, I urge upon all those who believe that the mother should be the primary care given for young children to say so. If there is developing in their areas a child care centre, they should go along to ensure that it develops upon the basis for which it is being established- to support the family. It is a support for the family, not a substitute for it. There are many who cite the single parent, the widow, the supporting mother as cases of need. They are cases of need. They are families of a particular type. They need support, but the type of support that they need is not the type of support that is needed or wanted by the great majority of 2-parent families. 
I have placed considerable stress upon the need to provide added incomes for families with young children. The final point I make is that one method of providing that added income is to carry out a review of our tax structure- a review designed to show concern that people should be given an incentive to work and to earn more, and that a careful examination should be made of the possibility of looking at the position of the single income family with pre-school children to ensure that it is not disadvantaged when compared with the 2-income family which has the same income as the single income family. The comparative tax take from those families, which are equal in all respects, places the single income family at a considerable disadvantage. I think careful consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing in the case of the family with preschool children an optional income splitting system in the form of some concessional family tax that recognises the need of families with young children to have larger resources available to them than the present tax system allows. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Shipton)  adjourned. 
I am very pleased that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is in the House this evening. He will recall giving me an undertaking to resolve as a matter of urgency the matter concerning people in Adelaide who are dependent upon cable television to get satisfactory reception. Certain steps have been taken to bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion. I am pleased to note that Cablevision, the company that has been the cable operator for some 400 households in the foothills of metropolitan Adelaide, has received a letter which can only be interpreted as an indication that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board proposes within 12 months or so -the words 'within 12 months or so' are a direct quote- to establish a translator service in metropolitan Adelaide. Further, I am very pleased that it has asked Cablevision to consider continuing the operation of its network on a noprofit, no-loss basis for a further 12 months or so. Immediately the letter was received, Cablevision contacted  Mr Connolly  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and received his assurance that the Board had in mind a subsidy to Cablevision to enable the network to continue for that period on a no-profit basis. I am also pleased that under examination by  Senator Messner  in a meeting of a Senate Estimates committee today,  Mr Connolly  acknowledged that the letter was written to ask Cablevision whether it would continue the operation with a view to exploring some form of subsidy. I hope that the Minister is able to make certain that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is able to fulfil the undertaking that its Secretary gave to the cable operator. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to establish an Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. It is part of a significant program of the present Government to strengthen the federal system in Australia. We have just heard a speech from Australia's greatest centralist, a man who does not want the federal system to survive. While in office he did everything in his power to destroy the federal system, and now he resents actions being taken by this Government to improve the operation of the federal system. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  in his speech talked as if he were a supporter of local government.  His  aim and purpose was to destroy local government, and local government understands that that was the case. This Bill will establish an Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. Its aim will be to provide a forum where the relationships between the 3 spheres of government can be examined and discussed, because it is quite clear that if the federal system is to operate effectively there must be an appropriate allocation of responsibilities as between the 3 spheres of government and there must be matching revenue resources available to the spheres of government. If matching revenue resources are not available governments will not be able adequately to fulfil their responsibilities. 
The Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations will comprise 22 members. It will have representatives from the Commonwealth Parliament, the State parliaments and local government. The Leader of the Opposition tried to convince this House that the present Government was not concerned about local government. This Bill is one of a number of measures which clearly prove that this Government is concerned to strengthen local government, to raise it to a position of autonomy so that it will be able to fulfil the responsibilities that have properly been given to it. The debate about federalism is a fundamental one. The Leader of the Opposition, however, tried to gloss over the essential elements of the debate. He talks about the money that he handed out when he was Prime Minister. He failed to tell the House that the manner in which he handed out that money to both the State governments and local governments was designed to take away their independence and autonomy. The debate about federalism is a debate about the future system of government that we will have in this country. Do we want a centralised system of government, or do we want a federal system? If we want a federal system, do we want a system where a power is gradually concentrated on the centre, or do we want a system where power is being moved back closer to the people who are affected by the decisions of government? 
Clearly at the time of Federation there was a distribution of power, but as time has advanced that distribution or allocation of responsibility is not now as appropriate as it was. The cooperation between the 3 spheres of government in the Federation has developed through the years in a haphazard fashion. A great fiscal imbalance has arisen. The States and local government have not had available to them sufficient resources to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities. The degeneration in the workings of the federal system was such that when Labor came to power it moved swiftly to destroy the federal system. At the heart of the difference between the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Australian Labor Party lies this profound difference in approach to government. The Leader of the Opposition has sought to gloss over that difference by pretending that he would have in mind giving local government greater independence and autonomy. Nothing is further from the truth. The Leader of the Opposition is well known for a statement that he made in what is now a much publicised lecture. He said: 
Our continent should have neither so few State governments nor so many local government units ... we should have a House of Representatives for nationwide matters and an Assembly for the affairs of each of our dozen largest capital dues and Regional Assemblies, for those few score areas of rural production and resource development outside those cities. 
The Leader of the Opposition was seeking to establish a unitary, unicameral system of government with one Australian Parliament vested with plenary powers consisting only of a House of Representatives. He aimed to do away with the States and to abolish the Senate.  His  aim wasand from what he said today I believe still is- to centralise all legislative power in Canberra. He said in his speech today that he believed the federal system was an archaic one. He implied by the way in which he said it that he would destroy that system. He used the argument about the importance of governments understanding the inter-relationships of the actions that they take on behalf of the citizens in their territories. The argument about regionalism as a smokescreen for his desire to change the whole structure of government in Australia. The aim of the Leader of the Opposition in promoting regionalism was not to establish elected systems of government at regional levels or to preserve local government at the local level or to support the States, but rather to set up an administrative network based upon regions. He wanted the legislative decisions to be taken here in Canberra.  His  aim was to replace the elected representative in local government and the elected representative in State government by a Federal bureaucrat who would be instructed to follow the guidelines of policy determined by a single parliament here in Canberra. 
Spokesmen for the previous Labor Government talked about citizen participation. To them it appeared to mean involving citizens at the local level with administrators who would ultimately have been responsible to other administrators higher up the line in Canberra and who, in the final analysis, would have been responsible for carrying out Canberra's dictates- the policy of the day. Though it can serve a useful purpose, I think the House will agree that this form of public participation is not as effective as that which should be encouraged to take place between concerned citizens and their elected representatives. The elected local councillor is not only more willing, but also more able to respond to the wishes of the community than a bureaucrat appointed and controlled by a central legislature. Today the Leader of the Opposition made clear the fact that he still adheres to the view that local participation is participation with administrators; and that legislative power should be centralised here in Canberra. I again quote from what the Leader of the Opposition has said in the past. He said: 
Much can be achieved by Labor members of the State Parliaments in effectuating Labor's aims of more effective powers for the national parliament and for local government. Their role is to bring about their own dissolution. 
Today and in recent speeches the Leader of the Opposition has confirmed that that is his intention. However, we on this side of the House believe that power should be distributed. We think that in order to safeguard a free, democratic country it is essential that the legislative responsibilitythe power to make law- should be divided among a number of authorities. We support having a federal system- a 3-sphered federal system. We do so because we believe that there should be the checks and balances that are inherent in such a system. We also believe that such a system will result in more effective governmentgovernment which is more responsive to the wishes and desires of the people and which enables individual choice and local differences whilst maintaining high ideals and standards for the nation as a whole. 
Although a significant element of the debate on federalism is about money, the real essence of the debate is about power and initiative. Free people can lose their freedom if power is placed in too few hands. We saw in the last 3 years of the Labor Government how that power could be abused. Let us think about how it would have been abused still further if there had been plenary power in the House of Representatives with a government led by the present Leader of the Opposition. We believe that each level of government- Commonwealth, State and localshould make decisions appropriate to that level of government. It is necessary therefore to strengthen the federal system, which was severely weakened in the Whitlam years. There is need for a more rational and coherent approach to the sharing of responsibility and the sharing of the resources available to governments. 
The purpose of establishing the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations is to enable a rational, sensible debate to go on to determine which decision should be taken at the local level, what should be determined by the State governments and what should be within the capacity of the Commonwealth Government. Having made that determination, it is necessary that the adequacy of the resources available to governments be examined for it is no good giving a government a power and an authority if, in making the decisions in relation to that power and authority, it does not have the resources to put its decisions into operation. Our aim, therefore, is to strengthen the independence of the State and local governments and to do this they must be given an adequate capacity to act as they believe best and the political responsibility of raising the funds they spend. 
It is true that over the last 9 months this Government has necessarily had to concentrate on what might be described as fiscal federalismthe allocation of resources to the State governments and to local government. A great deal of progress has been achieved, but, in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the last Premiers Conference, the decisions so far taken are 'the foundation for the future development of federalism, including the basic issues of defining clearer and more efficient roles and responsibilities for the 3 spheres of government'. 
In the time remaining to me I do not propose to enunciate the details of Stage 1 of the revenuesharing arrangements, nor do I propose to expand upon the second stage of those arrangements. What I do want to do is to speak for a few minutes on the role of local government. This Government takes local government seriously. The previous Government- the Whitlam Government- used local government as a pawn in its design to take over its power. This Government has made general revenue available to local government and has linked the availability of that revenue to income tax collection. The revenue is being made available to local government free of strings. What the Leader of the Opposition had to say on the amount of funds made available by his Government was a misleading of the House as to what that Government in fact did because included in the figures that he quoted as the funds made available to local government were payments under the Regional Employment Development scheme- payments to relieve a problem that the previous Government caused and caused so seriously that it continues today, that is, the problem of unemployment. We have chosen to tackle the problem of unemployment in a more positive and significant way. 
We have given to local government resources that it will receive at a guaranteed level each year- some distributed on a  per capita  basis and some distributed on an equalisation basis. Yet the Leader of the Opposition sought to gloss over that fact. We are concerned that local government should have an adequate revenue base available to it to fulfil its present responsibilities and what I hope will be its expanded responsibilities. Local government has increasingly entered into the field of what may be described as 'people services'. I hope that local government will continue to do so. I trust also that when the country pulls through its present economic difficulties the funds available from the Commonwealth through the share of income tax now being provided to local government will be used not merely for rate replacement but to enable local government bodies to undertake new and exciting ventures, to expand their areas of responsibility or to act in areas which are now their responsibility but in which they have failed to take initiatives because of their belief and because of the fact that local government has not had a sufficient revenue base. 
Our policy envisages substantial increases in the responsibility of local government. The success of the policy will depend upon the extent to which not only the Commonwealth but also the 
States are willing to devolve functions on local government and at the same time to provide local government with an expanded resource base that is sufficient to enable it to cope with its responsibilities. In the past the States, like the Commonwealth, have adopted a centralist attitude towards local government. Sometimes local government has been required to act as a tax gatherer for State governments. We heard it said today that the Australian Labor Party is the friend of local government, but in my own State of South Australia the Labor Government uses local government as a tax gatherer. It imposes a levy upon local government to pay the State Government's responsibility for funding its hospitals. The amount received by one council under Commonwealth grants assistance is matched by that council's liability to the State Government. 
It is time that the State governments gave greater independence to local government and that the States raised directly the taxes that they need to carry on their services and enable local government to have the rate base available to it together with other revenue sources to spend directly on the responsibilities that belong to local government. Local government should no longer be tied to the apron strings of the States. Local government must be released from the straitjacket of State government centralism. As local government is not protected by the Constitution at present the responsibility sharing process has been one that has been determined unilaterally by the State governments. The time has now come for local government in each of the States to seek and be given its own charter of independence and autonomy. 
The Commonwealth is playing its part. It is increasing the revenue base of local government by making available untied grants to local government. The Commonwealth is also playing its part by giving local government a real voice on this Council, which, in the development of government in this country, will be one of the most significant ventures ever undertaken since Federation. All around the world we see the process of devolution, the process of taking decisionmaking closer to the people. The purpose of the Council to be set up under this legislation is to provide a venue where there can be real and sensible discussion and to enable the federal system to work more effectively by having built into it guarantees for its future safety against the threat of the greatest centralist of them all, the gentleman who preceded me in the debate this afternoon. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  propose this amendment one finds that his total hypocrisy is made manifestly clear. In his speech and in the speech of his sibling earlier this afternoon it was stated that this legislation would not achieve the purpose for which it is designed. Of course, honourable members opposite do not want it to achieve its purpose. They are opposed to the federal system. They want to destroy that system. Now by this amendment the Leader of the Opposition seeks to make some mischief. In his speech during the second reading debate, to which he kept referring in his comments a few minutes ago, the Leader of the Opposition said that in 1971 the Premiers, because of the influence of local government, of councillors and aldermen, came to the Premiers Conference and said that there should be greater involvement by local government and that more funds should be made available to local government. If local government has a strong argument and can persuade the Premiers in the future, I am sure that it will succeed in doing so. 
I take up the argument of my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  Let us look at this matter in the practical political terms of today. At present there are 3 States with Labor Premiers. If local government believes, and if it is a fact, that the only Premiers who will at present support it are the Premiers of the Labor-controlled States, then local government already has 3 votes at the Premiers Conference. Therefore, it has to win the support of either one of the other Premiers or of the Prime Minister. I am convinced that if local government's argument is strong enough it will persuade the Premiers and the Prime Minister of the importance of the Advisory Council for Intergovernment Relations considering a matter which local government wishes to have discussed. 
Then I draw to the attention of the Committee the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  He, in denigrating the proposal for the establishment of the Council, amongst other things drew the attention of honourable members to the fact that the Council will have certain powers to initiate its own discussions. He pointed out that clause 4 of the Bill states:   the Council shall, subject to an in accordance with directions given at a Premiers Conference, inquire into and keep under consideration and review matters relating to inter-government co-operation . . . 
If the local government representatives, of whom there will be six out of a total membership of twenty-two on the Council, cannot get the support of the Premiers or of the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference they can come along to the Council and gain the support of 5 other members of the Council- they could gain the support of the 5 citizen members- and local government would then have sufficient support within the Council to enable it to proceed to discuss the matter that it wants to initiate, except of course if the Premiers Conference gives directions that that matter shall not be discussed. I suggest that it would be a bold group of Premiers at the Premiers Conference who, in the face of a decision of the Council itself, made up of the representatives of the various groups, would say: That matter which local government wants considered shall not be discussed '. 
I point out to the Committee that there are 2 quite effective methods whereby local government can achieve the discussion of matters that are of concern to it. Firstly, it can get sufficient support within the Premiers Conference itself or, secondly, it can get sufficient support within the Advisory Council itself. Those options make this amendment totally unnecessary. I think that we should allow the Bill to proceed in the manner in which it was proposed, to provide time to determine how the Council operates. I am convinced that the Council will make a significant contribution in inter-governmental relations. I am not, like members of the Opposition, pessimistic about the Council's future. It is pessimism or wishful thinking on their part that the Council should not succeed? It will succeed if those who comprise its membership have the will to make it succeed. The 5 selected citizens will no doubt take up their appointments with a determination to make the Council a successful body. 
If local government wants to have a greater say in the development of our federal system, as I believe it does, this Council, structured as it is by this Bill, will give it an adequate opportunity to develop its place in the Federation. This Council, comprised as it will be of local government representatives, will give to local government a significant place in the Federation. I do not believe that the Bill should be amended in the manner suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. I think that he has put forward his proposal just for the sake of making mischief. 
-We have had from members of the Opposition, in particular the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  a presentation by sleight of hand of statistics designed to confuse the public. The honourable member for Oxley spoke in particular about the family allowances. He expressed concern that in this Budget the Government had not increased the level of benefits available to children of pensioners. I want to point out that the Government increased the benefits available to those children by 50 per cent. The allowances under the family allowances scheme were made available not only to taxpayers, as were the rebates under the Labor Party's rebate system, but to all families with dependent children. As a result, 300 000 families with 800 000 children will receive family allowances in circumstances where those allowances in no way replace a tax benefit, because they were not taxpayers. A large number of those 300 000 families are the families of pensioners. We are all aware that the family allowances scheme is one of the most significant changes in the social welfare system ever made in this country. Those benefits will provide to thousands of families in Australia a form of income that was not previously available. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)  - Order! I think the honourable member has stated his point of order. There is a certain amount of relevance in the point of order, I must say. However, if the speech refers to overall payments I think it has some relevance to the debate. 
I found it necessary to make reference to the family allowances scheme as a whole to expose the dishonesty of the honourable member for Oxley in the manner in which he tried to deceive this House when presenting figures which implied that pensioners with dependent children - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I think the honourable gentleman should withdraw the words ' tried to deceive this House '. 
I withdraw that remark. Anyone who closely examines the figures presented by the honourable member for Oxley will be surprised to find that they do not bear out the contentions he was making to this House. In the few remaining minutes available to me I want to draw the attention of the Committee to the significant change being made in the means test. It is sought to replace the means test with a income test. The Liberal and National Country Parties in their policies speeches and their policy documents undertook to make an examinaion with a view to: , 
Consolidating all existing means-tested pensions and benefits into one base rate income-tested benefit and standardising means tests to provide a uniform income test. 
That was a promise and it is given effect to in this legislation. The document went on to say:  
The test would be structured to minimise work disincentive, with benefits appropriately tapered as other earnings increase. 
What this legislation does is take the first step. It replaces the old means test with an income test only and this will be of great benefit to a large number of pensioners. It will place them in a situation where their real incomes as a consequence of pension increases rise and where they will not be prejudiced as a consequence of the escalation in the value of assets that are not income earning or where they are locked into assets which have a very low yield. 
What I wish to do is to draw the attention of the Committee to the need to examine the possibility of converting this new income test into a guaranteed income scheme. What I am concerned about is that as a consequence of the interaction of the means test and the taxation structure, the marginal rates of tax of those 2 tests combined do have a disincentive effect. This has come about because the previous Government, the Labor Government, introduced taxation on pensions and in doing so failed in any way to show any sensitivity with regard to the importance of the level of income from which tax is first payable. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  There is no point of order. 
Age pensions were made taxable by the previous Government. As I was saying, that Government lacked any sensitivity or understanding of the importance of pitching the level at which tax was first payable to take account of the past situation. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners for years have believed that their pension income was free of any claw back by the Government either by way of means test or tax if they earned $20 a week in the case of a single pensioner. When the Labor Government introduced taxation on pensions, tax assessments for which are now being received by many pensioners, it set the level at which tax became payable at a figure considerably less than a pension of $20 a week. 
-What are we going to do about it? We have already done something about it. We have significantly changed the tax system by indexing the rate scale. Let me point out that many pensioners believed they would receive a higher tax bill as a consequence of increased pension due to the liabilility of pensions to tax. In fact those pensions now will not attract a higher rate of tax because we have indexed the rate scale. The rebate system now gives to a pensioner a rebate of $620 a year in place $540 a year. 
I urge the Government to examine closely the need to merge carefully and blend together the impact of the tax structure with the income test. I would like to see the income test replaced by an income tax test. I want to bring to the attention of the Committee the manner in which the marginal rates accelerate for pensioner taxpayers as a consequence of the amalgamation of the impact of the means test with that of the taxation system. I can best to that by asking that there be incorporated in  Hansard  2 tables which I have had prepared. The tables indicate that at some levels of income means tested pensioners pay a marginal rate of tax in excess of 100c in the dollar and at other levels of income- not very high levels- they in fact pay a marginal rate of tax of 64.75c in the dollar. This is as a consequence of the fact that the Labor Government when in office failed to adjust the rebate system- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Is the honourable member seeking leave to have the documents incorporated in  Hansard? 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member mind if I deal with this matter now? Is leave granted? 
-That indicates that the Labor Party is prepared to break an agreement. I spoke to the Leader - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN -There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610144_55_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610144_56_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610144_56_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="101131197610144_57_6.jpg"></graphic>

-I urge the Government therefore to avoid lower negative income retention rates for pensioners and ask that it examines the effect of fluctuations in the marginal tax defect of the pensioner tax scale. In conclusion, I urge the Government also to ask the Department of Social Security and the Taxation Office to get together and to devise a common form so that pensioner taxpayers can present one form for tax purposes as well as for pension purposes. 
-We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who has delivered of himself an irresponsible submission. All this afternoon and this evening we have heard Labor members suggest that more money should be spent on this program and more on that. They do not then add up the cost of their proposals and publicly say to the Australian taxpayer that they would like that money taken out of the pockets of the Australian citizens. This Government succeeded in a major tax reform- tax indexation. If Labor had continued in office and retained its tax structure as it was, the Australian taxpayer would have paid $ 1,050m more in tax. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who has just spoken, has been spending money here tonight as if it grew on trees. 
In the few minutes available to me this evening I want to talk about urban development. There is a growing awareness of the importance to the well-being of the Australian community of having a coherent strategy for urban development. I am pleased to see in the estimates that the Australian Institute of Urban Studies is to receive a grant of $50,000. This Institute has done a remarkable service for the Australian community in playing a significant part in making people within the community, in government and in business understand the significance of urban development. There are yet many more who need to be convinced. There has been a tendency in the past to identify an immediate problem and to seek to cure it. There needs to be an examination of the urban issue in order to prevent problems arising. 
The central concern of urban policies should be people; people are the life blood of our cities and towns. They are created by people, for people. They exist to fulfil human needs. It is vital that all- I emphasise 'all'- decisions which have a spatial implication should take account of their effect on people and the way in which they live. Many of the decisions of governments, business enterprises, community groups and individuals affect the character of our cities and suburbs. Some have a direct effect but there are many more whose effect, though indirect, has a much wider impact. The interdependence of all social and economic systems and groups which make up our society is increasing. Unfortunately there has been a time lag in the recognition of the implications of this interdependence. All decision makers, legislators and administrators, as well as citizens, are coming to recognise the importance of these interrelationships between economic policies, social policies, social security policies and welfare programs and those decisions which appear to have a direct spatial implication. Many of the decisions, though they appear to have no direct spatial implications, have significant indirect consequences. Sometimes the indirect consequences are far more significant than those that have a direct impact. 
The failure of the Labor Government to achieve a satisfactory standard of economic management caused more urban problems than some of its programs sought to resolve. We heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hughes talk about the importance of urban programs but those programs are brought to nought if there is not effective economic management. Labor, while in office, brought the Australian economy almost to ruin. It had policies of hyper-inflation. As a result of those policies interest rates escalated as the inflation factor was built into the interest rate. High interest rates made it difficult for people to purchase their own homes, to save money and build up in real terms a sufficient amount to bridge the deposit gap. This made it difficult for State and local governments which have the prime responsibility of providing the social infrastructure, the roads, the sewerage systems and the schools. As State and local governments had to borrow more money to meet inflated costs of the public investment they needed to make to satisfy the communities' demands so they found they were having to pay higher and higher rates of interest. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  talked at length about the sewerage program. He would be aware that some of the State governments found that the money that the Labor Government offered became such a burden that they were unable to accept all that was offered. The burden came about as a consequence of the fact that State sewerage and water authorities were required to borrow money at high rates of interest. When they built that additional cost of servicing that new debt into their rate structures they found the added burden to be imposed upon the ratepayer was excessive and beyond the level which the ratepayer could reasonably afford. 
I urge all members of this chamber to acknowledge the correctness of the views of Barbara Ward, that urban development should not be the residual consequence of policy initiatives but must be the outcome of a positive policy. I feel sure that the Minister, in directing his department, will demonstrate this Government's capacity to have genuine, positive policies that ensure that urban development takes place in a rational and sensible fashion. Urban development needs to be attuned to people's needs both now and for the future. There must be this understanding of the effect of decisions upon the way in which our cities and towns grow. It is important that those who have riot previously been aware of the impact of their decisions should be made aware. It is also important that we develop a national settlement strategy and have urban goals so that we know where we are going in terms of the development of our major cities and smaller towns about the country. There must be communication and meaningful co-operation between governments. Not only must it be between governments in a federation, the three spheres of government- Commonwealth, State and local- but also there must be greater cooperation between the vertically organised functional departments within a government. Likewise, all levels of government need to have a higher degree of co-operation with business enterprise, community organisations and individuals. I am seriously concerned about the adequacy of the techniques now used to achieve co-operation and co-ordination in urban decision making. I urge upon the Government that an early opportunity we do everything we can to improve those processes. 
-Tonight I want to put a suggestion to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that consideration be given to changing the voting procedures in this House. There have been 2 occasions in recent weeks when as a consequence of the manner in which debate has proceeded we have had successive divisions, one after the other. I suggest that once again the question of mechanical counting of votes of this House be investigated, but I suggest that in the meantime the Standing Orders be altered to provide for different arrangements in the event of procedural motions. I suggest that where there is a procedural motion and the  Speaker  declares as to the manner in which it is carried, the Standing Orders should provide that a division can be called but that in the event of the division confirming the Speaker's declaration as to the result, a sanction similar to that imposed on a member who calls a quorum when there is in fact a quorum present should be applied. I do not for a moment suggest that this should apply to substantive motions, but I do not see any reason in the case of procedural motions why this House should not investigate ways and means of expediting its procedures. Honourable members who wish to cast their votes on a substantive motion and have them recorded by way of division should be able to do so, but where we are voting on procedural motions I suggest that the procedures of the House could be much improved if the idea I have put forward were examined and adopted. 
-Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications agree that it is absurd to suggest that legalisation of citizen band radio would be a significant threat to the public telephone and telegraphic system? Does he also agree that it was unfair of a  Mr Wilkinson  of the Management Branch of the Department of Post and Telecommunications to imply that citizen band radio would only be used by people engaged in serious crime? If this is the justification for retaining the existing law making the use of citizen band radio illegal, should the use of telephones, motor cars and even bicycles be made illegal because they are sometimes used by criminals? 
-This is a cognate debate covering 2 Bills, the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill and its companion Bill, the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill. Both Bills bring into legislative form the proposals of the Fraser Government with regard to fiscal federalism. I want to begin my remarks this afternoon by drawing to the attention of the House the fact that the whole question of federalism is as much about the distribution of power and initiative as it is about money. The distribution of power in any society is an important element of preserving freedom within that society. If all power is located in one place, in one government or in a small group of people, there is a danger that the freedoms that a country enjoys can be taken away by abuse of that power. Our federal system has as an essential element a number of checks and balances. The power to legislate is divided between State, federal and local government bodies. As a result questions relating to administration also are distributed between those 3 spheres of government. 
The present Government is determined to improve the federal system. It has a rational and coherent approach both to responsibility sharing and to revenue sharing. You can achieve responsibility sharing in a meaningful way only if there is a sensible sharing of the revenue resources that are available to governments. Federalism is the very antithesis of centralism. Federalists in Australia want to retain and strengthen the 3 spheres or tiers of government. Centralists want to see an all-powerful central government and they use and abuse the existing Federal system to achieve their ends. Members of the Australian Labor Party when in office caused a rapid degeneration of the working of the federal system. They promoted their centralist objectives while falsely claiming themselves to be supporters of a system which they liked to describe as co-operative federalism. We were told only last night by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  that the Labor Party is currently working to produce for its next federal conference 'a workable policy which will minimise the tensions which inevitably arise in a federal system'. 
What the honourable member did not tell the House was that unless the conference of the Labor Party makes a  fundamental  change in that Party's policies, its methods of minimising the tensions between the spheres of government will be to abolish the spheres of government and to replace them by a unitary, unicameral system of government. The honourable member for Adelaide also told us how he would like to achieve a minimisation of these tensions. He told us that he would provide each tier of government with sufficient funds. That sounds good. He went on to say that he would do that through specific purpose grants in line with the views expressed by his Leader at the Premiers Conference in 1973. A Press release issued by  Mr Whitlam  when he was Prime Minister stated that he would want the Commonwealth Government to be involved in the process by which priorities are met and by which expenditures are planned and by which standards are set. This is all part of the process of centralising power. 
-That was the present Leader of the Opposition. He, and some of the spokesmen sitting behind him, today seek to pretend that they support the federal system. They do not. They support it only to the extent that they want to use the system to destroy it and to replace it with a unitary centralist system of government. Labor's brand of federalism, if it can be described as federalism, is not cooperative federalism but coercive federalism. This has been described by Professor Mathews as 'a federal system marked by centralisation of power, unequal bargaining strength and the distortion of the priorities of the  Tower  levels of government'. 
Undoubtedly cunning and coercive. The Labor Government used specific purpose programs. It used advisory commissions in areas of State responsibility and it used its approach to regionalism to coerce the States. As a result, we witnessed a confrontation and conflict between governments within this country. The Labor Party adopted this coercive approach because its ultimate goal was and still is to establish a unitary, unicameral, system of government. Its aim was and, I have no doubt still is, to do away with the States, to wipe out local government as we know it today and to.abolish the Senate. Only last month the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  claimed that the federal system was archaic. Only last month he again reaffirmed his desire to achieve in Australia a unitary, unicameral system of government. But it should not be thought that the Leader of the Opposition is out of step on this issue with members of his own Party. On a  Four Comers  program some years ago  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, said that the federal system of government in Australia was on the way out. He also stated: 
Our State boundaries are illogical. I think that eventually Australia will have to face having one sovereign National Parliament and a series of County Governments- subordinate legislatures- but the foundation for this is not here yet. 
-That was  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia. 
-A Labor Premier who today pretends that he is a supporter of co-operative federalism. In fact he is a supporter of what I and others have described as coercive federalism. The Premier of South Australia wants to see the Senate abolished. The  Chairman  of the Grants Commission,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, in a recent address stated: 
Had (the Whitlam Government not been dismissed) it is probable that the stage might have been reached where, as Chief Justice Latham had said in the first uniform tax case, the States would have lost, if not their political independence, a large measure of their capacity to initiate their own policies. 
Through our policies political independence of the States and local governments will be strengthened. Their capacity to initiate their own policies will be increased. I assure the honourable member for Adelaide, who doubted this, that transfers of power will take place, but before this can be done the fiscal arrangements between the spheres of government will have to be tidied up. The 2 Bills which we are debating today put into legislative form the fiscal arrangements which were negotiated at 3 very successful Premiers Conferences which were chaired by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Prime Minister stated that as a result of the arrangements negotiated at those conferences the revenue sharing arrangements implemented as a consequence would be 'the foundation for the future development of federalism, including the basic issue of defining clear and more efficient roles and responsibilities for all 3 spheres of government'. 
These Bills put into legislative form the terms of the arrangements agreed between the States and the Commonwealth and negotiated at those conferences. They were held in February, April and June. It is important that we note the dates on which those conferences were held. The Bills which we debate today flow directly from those conferences. At the first 2 conferences, the second of which was held in April, 33 issues relating to revenue sharing arrangements were settled. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  attachment A which was attached to the Prime Minister's statement following the June conference. It sets out the 33 issues which were settled at the February and April conferences. 
-I thank the House. Time does not permit me to deal with all the issues which were settled, but two of them are relevant to this debate. Firstly, it was not only agreed by the 
Commonwealth and the States that the governments would share income tax but also agreement was reached as to the manner in which the percentage share of the States would be determined. Paragraph 5 of the attachment states: 
The  'base' to which the percentage will be applied each year will be personal income tax collected in the year.  The  percentage figure will be determined by reference to the relationship Between the financial assistance grants in  1975-76  and personal income tax collections in that year. 
At the June conference discussions took the form of trying to estimate in money terms the amount which would be available to the States. The Commonwealth Government indicated that on the information then available it appeared that the States would be eligible for 33.6 per cent of income tax. As events turned out, if we applied the formula, the amount available to the States would have been marginally less. The States, -notwithstanding their unequivocal agreement to the formula, used a tricky, superficial argument. They twisted the arm of the Commonwealth to agree to the estimated figure notwithstanding the fact that following the June Conference, where these estimates were given, the Prime Minister had made it clear that the figures cited were no more than present estimates. It was an indication of the Commonwealth's determination to make sure that the revenue sharing arrangements were done on a basis of inter-governmental negotiation that the Commonwealth agreed to increase the percentage share to 33.6 per cent. That is the figure contained in the legislation now before us. I think it is important to note that every Premier, including the Premiers of the then 2 Labor States, South Australia and Tasmania, agreed with the arrangements that income tax should be shared. Indeed, Premier Dunstan could not have done otherwise because in 1974 he accused the then Prime Minister Whitiam of ignoring the Australian Labor Party and forcing the States to introduce regressive taxes on lower and middle income earners. It is noteworthy that as a consequence of the federalism policy of the Fraser Government, all States including the South Austraiian Labor Government, have been able to reduce many of those regressive taxes. At the same time as he attacked Prime Minister Whitlam,  Mr Dunstan  went on to say that he believed it to be essential for the Labor Party to decide at its Federal conference for the provision to the States of a share of income tax. He advocated the very arrangements that this Government is today in this legislation putting on to the statute books. 
That was  Mr Dunstan,  who advocated the sharing of income tax between the Commonwealth and State governments. Yet last night a member from his own State, the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide, got up in this House and said that he would prefer a restructured version of the old betterment tax formula. 
-It is hard to believe, as my colleague says, but it is indicative of the fact that the Labor Party wants to return to its process of coercive federalism. It wants to return to a situation where it can squeeze the States, where it can force them to introduce regressive taxes so that in return the Labor Party can come in with these specific purpose grants and say: 'Because we are giving you specific purpose grants we must determine where they will be spent. We must determine the priorities; we must set the standards', thereby taking from the States any influence at all in the legislative process. 
-Central power, using the States merely as administrative agents for the Commonwealth Government. That is not cooperative federalism, it is centralism. In the remaining minutes available to me I want to turn to the second Bill, the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill, which provides to local government a share of income tax. It is a Bill upon which there has been a great deal of publicity of late, and at this point I might say that I am amazed at the first amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide and by the one he foreshadows for the local government Bill. He wants the Bills withdrawn and redrafted. In the case of income tax sharing as between the States, every State has applauded the sharing arrangements. There has been some correspondence in respect of one issue from one Premier. That issue related, in the case of the income tax sharing arrangements, to the question of the exclusion of surcharges imposed by the Commonwealth from the calculations of the amount of income tax that the States should receive. Assurances have been given by the Prime Minister and by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  The assurances were written into the agreement earlier this year in April. As to the communications that have been received in respect of the moneys going to local government, no local government body has communicated with the Government saying that it does not like the legislation. The States have raised a number of points and indications have been given that certain amendments will be made to ensure that the points of view of those States are taken into account. 
As to the suggestion that the legislation should be withdrawn, does the shadow Treasurer want to hold up the share of the additional $89m to the States? Does he want to prevent this Government from paying $140m to local government? He wants to delay it. What is the cost each week of a delay in the payment to local government of $ 1 40m? It is an immense cost, and to suggest that this legislation should be delayed is totally frivolous. This legislation is designed to establish a structure so that intergovernmental relations amongst the 3 spheres of government can be established. Insofar as some State Premiers have criticised the local government legislation as being centralist, they fail to understand that it is legislation to determine the rights between spheres of government. It is not a question of determining the relationships between this Government and a Department of State of any State government. 
This Government here in Canberra recognises that there are 3 spheres of government. It wants to see local government have greater autonomy and independence and I draw the attention of the House to a resolution supported by all parties and all governments at the recent Constitutional Convention. The resolution states: 
That this Convention, recognising the fundamental role of Local Government in the system of government in Australia, and being desirous that the fulfilment of that role should be effectively facilitated- 
Invites the States to consider formal recognition of local government in State Constitutions; 
Invites the Prime Minister to raise at the next Premiers Conference the question of the relationships which should exist between Federal, State and Local Government; 
The Prime Minister gave an undertaking that he would raise the issue. What we need to do now is to ask all those Premiers and Ministers for local government who have called this legislation centralist whether they will respond to that invitation and give local government constitutional guarantees within the constitutions of the States. The Commonwealth is playing its part. It is providing untied grants to be distributed to local government on a 2-tiered arrangement through local government grants commissions, which under this legislation must be objective and independent, must receive submissions and must make reports. I hope that as a result of the legislation we will see a strengthening of the independence of all 3 spheres of government, and an end to the coercion of any sphere of government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will recall that in August he undertook to have the problems facing those in the foothill suburbs of metropolitan Adelaide now dependent on cable television resolved as a matter of urgency. What is to be done to provide continuous reception for these viewers? Will a UHF translator be installed? If so, when? In the meantime, will the commitment of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to provide funds to enable cable viewing to continue to operate on a non-profit, no loss basis be honoured? Is the Board bound by the commitments of its officers? Is it in the habit of welshing on its obligations? What action will be taken against officers who purport to make commitments on behalf of the Board in circumstances which do not bind the Board? 
-Today is 11 November. I want to bring to the attention of the House the importance that divisions should not be created within the Australian community by criticisms of the Governor-General which, in the words of Francis West 'rest upon strained law and bad history prompted by political anger'. The recorded history of the events of 11 November 1975 should not be merely a distillation of rumour or a fable agreed upon, but should contain an accurate record of the events as they occurred and a proper interpretation of the law. Twelve months ago Prime Minister Whitlam was dismissed by the GovernorGeneral. This dismissal was both proper and legal. The Senate had refused to grant supply. Notwithstanding his inability to obtain parliamentary approval of the Supply Bill, Prime Minister Whitlam made it clear to the GovernorGeneral firstly, that he would never resign; secondly, that he would never advise an election of the House of Representatives or a double dissolution; and, thirdly, that the only way such an election could be held was by his dismissal by the Governor-General. 
The issue of this challenge was surely an acknowledgement by Prime Minister Whitlam of the Governor-General's powers under sections 62 and 64 of the Constitution to dismiss Ministers, including Prime Ministers, whose appointment to office is during the Governor-General's pleasure. Despite this acknowledgement, attempts are still being made to suggest that the Governor-General had no power to determine the Prime Minister's commission, either on the ground that his power is not greater than that of the Queen or that it is limited to acting in all matters on the advice of the Prime Minister. There are, in my view, no grounds for arguing that the powers exercised by the Governor-General could not be exercised by the Queen in her capacity as Queen of Australia, even if their exercise by her in the United Kingdom is, according to Colin Howard, unthinkable. Therefore it is not possible to sustain the view that the GovernorGeneral acted contrary to the intention that his powers should not exceed those of the Queen herself. 
The second false argument peddled by spokesmen of the Labor Party is based on an assumption that the Governor-General should not act as an automaton in response only to the advice of the Prime Minister. If this were so the Prime Minister, once appointed, could, even if acting in blatant disregard of the Constitution, only to be removed from Office if he advised the withdrawal of his own commission. If this were so a government fearful of the judgment of the people could refuse to advise that an election be held and remain in office longer than the maximum period for which the House of Representatives is elected. But it must be noted that whereas the Constitution confers some powers on the Governor-General in Council it clearly gives others to the Governor-General alone. Under section 5 he has the power from time to time as he thinks fit to dissolve the House of Representatives. Section 28 enables him to dissolve it sooner than the 3 years for which, from its first meeting, it shall no longer continue and he may dissolve it along with the Senate in circumstances authorised in section 57 following a disagreement between the Houses. One would have thought that it was beyond dispute that though he will in the exercise of these powers generally act on the advice of Ministers he need not necessarily do so. 
The writings of  Dr Evatt  on this subject are entirely based on the assumption that there are reserve powers which impose on the GovernorGeneral the duty of the independent exercise of discretion.  Dr Evatt  recognises that: 
So far as Australia is concerned, a long course of practice tends to negative the proposition that the Governor-General . . . is a mere automation in the hands of the Ministers who have lost, or who are about to lose, the support of Parliament. 
I ask honourable members to note that he referred to the loss of the support of Parliament, not merely the loss of the support of the House of Representatives. The Governor-General's prerogative powers, powers which are essential to the preservation of Australian democracy, are the safety valve that ensures that in times of crisis it is the people exercising the ultimate right in democracy who have a say in determining the future of their government. 
-We have just heard the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  present to the House a totally illogical argument about the Government's new federalism policy. He criticised that policy as being coercive. I want to bring to his attention what to reasonable men is a proper and correct definition of 'coercive federalism' and for that purpose I draw on a quotation from Professor Mathews in which he pointed out that 'coercive federalism' was a style of government marked by centralisation of power, unequal bargaining strength and the distortion of the priorities of lower levels of government. In a recent speech delivered in Canberra the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell said: 
Had there not been a change of government 12 months ago it is probable that the stage might have been reached where, as Chief Justice Latham had said in the first uniform taxation case, the States would have lost if not their political independence a large measure of their capacity to initiate their own policies. 
Having criticised this Government for its federalism policy, the honourable member for Shortland went on to advocate a continuance of the coercive use of section 96 grants which grew a great deal under the Labor Administration to the point where those grants rose to represent some 50 per cent of Commonwealth transfers to the States other than loans. In our federalism policy we indicated that we were concerned at the manner in which section 96 grants dominate the revenue of the States. We acknowledged in that policy that many of the existing section 96 grants are now a part of well established and universally accepted programs within the States and that moneys for such programs could be transferred to general purpose revenue reimbursement and ultimately absorbed in the States income tax revenue or in local government income tax revenue. In the case of grants for roads we have a classic illustration of where this process of absorption could and should be applied. I emphasise that the process of absorption does not merely mean giving to State or local governments a responsibility to fulfil road programs and leaving them to find the financial resources. What 'absorption' means is the replacement of a tied section 96 grant with general revenue grants sufficient to enable the lower levels of government to carry out the functions which have been transferred to them. 
Turning to the roads program, roads representing 10 per cent of section 96 grants and 3.99 per cent of income tax or 4.64 per cent of total Commonwealth funds provided to the States. Many of these programs are now running in such an established fashion that it is appropriate for the Government to seriously consider the transference from section 96 provisions into general revenue grants. I am pleased to note that in a number of departments responsible for section 96 grants there are working parties and I believe that one is operating in the Department of Transport. I await with keen interest the outcome of its investigations. I trust that it will examine in all seriousness the Government's federalism policy and, with real determination, make decisions that will devolve responsibility and revenue resources on State and local governments. 
It is sometimes argued that because there are spill-over effects a road going through one municipality or passing through one State cannot be effectively constructed and designed as part of a total network without adjoining areas being taken into account. Of course that is true but it is no reason for decision making on roads to be totally centralised. Under a federal system of government it is important that the various levels of government acknowledge the fact that there are these spill-over effects and that they occur no more significantly than in the case of roads. It is important that in doing so each unit of government should not think that it is being efficient within its own area if it disregards the effects on other areas. There is a danger that 'each unit of government will think it is being efficient but the totality of decision will be inefficiency'. However, local government and the States recognise this fact and so long as they do have just as much capacity to determine appropriate road programs as the Commonwealth Government. 
I believe that the Bureau of Roads 1975 report on roads in Australia should be re-examined. That report was handed down towards the end of last year. It was prepared at a time when there was a centralist government in office and the report failed to take account of the federalism policy. This document should be sent back to the Bureau of Roads or its successor with a request that it be re-written to take account of the Goverment 's federalism policy. What it did was merely take account of the financial arrangements that were operating at the time it was prepared and in every aspect failed to identify the significant element in the federalism policy, that is, that each level of government which is responsible for a part of the program should have the revenue resources available to it to enable it to implement that part. In a recent report on local government in Australia and New Zealand, the UnderSecretary for Local Government in New South Wales,  Mr J.  T. Monaghan, said: 
Theoretically there is something to be said for channelling all such assistance through one local government assistance fund. 
I believe that the working party that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has set up to look into the question of funding of roads should give serious consideration to whether the funds now going to local government, including those funds being made available for roads, should go through one local government assistance fund. I see no reason why the local government Grants Commission within the States could not be given the responsibility of distributing the general revenue funds and those that might be block granted or earmarked in a general way for expenditure on roads. The reports of such local government Grants Commissions could and should take into account the recommendations of a body like the Bureau of Roads. But, insofar as local government has now come to accept as part of its regular income the grants it receives under the roads  program,  I think local government could be better served in the long run by having those revenues coming as part of its general revenue linked as a proportion of income tax. 
The joint study into local government financing itself recommended that it would seem appropriate to undertake a complete review of the system of grants to local authorities in Australia with the view to establishing a more systematic and co-ordinated approach. It had in mind the lack of co-ordination that now exists in the provision of funding for local government through general revenue grants and through the provision of road money. Road money is now, for many shires and councils, part of their established revenue and, insofar as it is so established, it is a classic illustration of a Section 96 grant for a program eminently suitable and appropriate to be absorbed into the general revenue of local government. 
The same also can be said of many of the programs relating to roads within the States. Indeed, under the framework of the then centralist socialist Government, the Bureau of Roads did consider as one option in its recommendations the possibility of the Australian Government financing only its own road program and suggested that if that were the case adi that the Commonwealth need do would be to provide 18.8 per cent of the total road funds. What the Bureau there failed to do was to identify the fact that if there were to be that transfer of responsibility to local government and the States there would have to be a transfer of revenue so that the States and local government could meet their new responsibilities. I believe that transfer of general revenue should take place and I urge the body examining this matter to study this proposal most carefully. It may be that in the short run, however, the process needs to be a phased one from a specific grant through some form of block grant arrangement which requires the States and local government to spend money on roads and prevents them from substituting those resources for their own funds which they then spend on other areas. I believe that as the roads agreement comes up for examination it is essential that those who work upon it do so against the background of the Government's federalism policy, which is designed to pass decisionmaking priority determination down to the State and local government bodies. 
Does the Prime Minister agree with the reported views of Professor Sawer, that despite the Government's federalism policy there will be a continued drift towards what he described as organic federalism, a type of federalism in which the Commonwealth sets all major policies, with the States retaining discretion only on administration and local adaption? Does the Prime Minister expect that the federalism policy will stem the growth of Commonwealth authority, or will Commonwealth domination continue, with the difference between this Government's federalism approach and that of Labor being only one of style and not of substance? What steps are being taken to lessen the Commonwealth 's dominance which now stems from the use of section 96 grants? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) On what date was it announced that contributors to the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme could no longer take up previously rejected non-contributory units. 
How many employees took up these units in each of the 6 months preceding that announcement. 
By which Department were the employees who took up the units employed at the time. 
How many of these employees were resident in (a) Canberra and ( b) elsewhere. 

 -Mr Speaker, I address my question to you. By way of preamble I state that it is my view that the Territories should, like the States, be entitled to have members in this House in proportion to their populations.  Mr Speaker,  has your attention been drawn to the High Court judgment in MacKellar's case? Is it a fact that the power conferred on Parliament by the Constitution to allow representation of a Territory in either House of Parliament does not enable Parliament to make the representatives members of this House or the Senate? If they are here as representatives of the Territories and not as members of this House, do you propose to permit the representatives of the Territories to vote in divisions, to perform your duties in your absence, to be included in the number of members to constitute a quorum or to be treated in any other way as members of this House rather than as mere representatives of the Territories? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many persons in each State during each of the last 12 months have been prosecuted for (a) installing, (b) erecting, (c) maintaining and (d) using citizen band radios. 
-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: In view of the rapid decline in Australia's population growth and in view of the fact that substantial gains on account of net migration made in the 1960s have during the 1970s been turned into net losses, will the Minister give urgent consideration to converting the present annual immigration target of 70 000 settler arrivals into a target of net population gain through immigration of 70 000? Does the Minister agree that if this were done, firstly many more family reunions could be accomplished and, secondly, job opportunities could be created far in excess of those which would be sought by the new settlers arriving? 
I am pleased to be able to join in this debate on the AddressinReply to  Her  Majesty's Speech on the occasion of the opening of the Parliament. I think the fact that  Her  Majesty was able to visit Australia in her jubilee year is of great significance to this country. I think that her visit should act as a timely reminder to us all in this House and to the nation as a whole of the significance to Australia of the constitutional monarchy. 
Tonight, however, I do not wish to develop that theme. I wish to raise 2 other matters. The first relates very significantly to what our vision is as to the style of government we wish to see in this country. The present Government is committed to the idea and the concept of federalism; that is, the distribution of legislative power between the Commonwealth Parliament, the parliaments of the States and, through the States, to local government. I was pleased to read in  Her  Majesty's speech reference not only to the reforms that have already been made but also to those that are to be made. In her Speech she said: 
Historic reforms are being made to the nation's federal financial relations which will return power and responsibility to the State and local levels of government. 
In the Government's federalism policy we laid stress on the fact that in 1 975 the section 96 grant mechanism had been used to dominate State revenues. Indeed, in the 1976-77 Budget section 96 grants continued to dominate State revenues. In that year, the first year of this Government, 46.3 per cent of total Commonwealth funds to the States were made available by way of section 96 grants. Let me translate that into other terms. Those grants, if converted as a percentage of income tax, would have represented 40 per cent of income tax. In our first year in office under the general revenue sharing arrangements we have made great progress. We have provided to the States a share of income tax which is equal to 33.6 per cent of the total income tax revenue. 
What I want to do is to draw to the attention of the House that that is only a beginning, because by far the greatest share of funds that go to the States, based on the pattern of last year and the year immediately preceding, is represented by section 96 grants. The Government has a commitment to reduce section 96 grants, not by cuts in the allocation of resources but by transfers of those specifically tied grants into general revenue grants or by the adoption of a process that ultimately leads to that objective. 
As the honourable member says, that is true federalism. It is the transfer of specific grants into general revenue so that the general revenue matches the responsibility of the level of government to which that revenue has been transferred. The Government, in its first 15 months of office, has not had an opportunity truly to absorb section 96 grants. However, it was made quite clear in the Budget Papers that the absorption process was not a cutting of the resourse but a transfer of the resource. 
In more recent times, in a very significant report, attention has been drawn to this interpretation of absorption. The report to which I refer is the first report of the Bailey Task Force on proposals for changes in the administration and delivery of programs and services. That report places before this Parliament and before the Government a very great challenge. It was written having as a backdrop the Government's federalism policy and it recognised that the process of devolution requires the taking of some risks. The Task Force considered that the advantages in the effectiveness and delivery of programs it proposed to transfer outweighed the disadvantages. In the short.time at my disposal I shall draw the attention of the House to some of the concluding paragraphs in the Task Force report. Paragraph 296 states: 
Our task has been to identify areas where change could be made in the interests of efficiency, economy or better administration or delivery. We are confident that each of the changes we have recommended in Section VIII will stand up to examination against these criteria. 
Any failure, therefore, to take up those recommendations is to fly in the face of the careful and close examination given by the Task Force to the advantages to the nation of transferring program responsibility to State or local governments. Paragraph 298 of the report states: 
Our recommendations have erred on the side of caution. We have felt it better to be sure of a change, and to pave the way for others, than to risk failure and a deterioration in service delivery. For that reason, our proposals will disappoint some. To them we say be patient. If these changes are successful, more should be possible. Moreover, we shall be considering, in our next report, how the process of review and change in the administrative arrangements can be made a continuing one. 
Paragraph 299 continues: 
Others, perhaps some Commonwealth departments in particular, will feel we have gone too far to fast. To them we offer a challenge to a new style of administration and the adoption of a role which the Commonwealth alone can performthe oversight of a nation's activities in a field, the establishing of objectives and the evaluation of outcomes. In these, excessive involvement in detailed program administration is an impediment. 
The proposals of the Task Force are cautious. 
Let us not be timid. Let us take up the challenge for it is not merely a challenge to Commonwealth departments. It is a challenge to Ministers of the Commonwealth Government. Federalism involves the devolution of responsibility. Members of this Government and of its administrations must take this report seriously and accept a proposal that provides a mechanism whereby there can be a continuing process of devolution to State and local governments so that power is diffused and so that decision making is more sensitive to the needs of the people while the Commonwealth Government, its departments and its Ministers can take on the more exciting challenge of providing national leadership in the definition of goals, in the evaluation of programs and in the introduction of innovatory measures. I wanted to draw the attention of the House to this report and to stress its very great significance in the next phase of the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. 
I turn now to another matter. Over recent months there has been much public debate about the tax burden. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is on record as saying that the Government is deeply committed to both tax reform and, as circumstances permit, to the process of reducing the real tax burden. There has been a plea for tax cuts. If the Treasurer were to announce tomorrow that most wage earners would have an increased take home pay of $4 a week and many an increased take home pay of $10 a week, that is, an increase net of tax, there would be headlines in the nation's newspapers. That will occur on 1 July or on the first pay day thereafter as a consequence of the Government's indexation of the tax system.  Her  Majesty the Queen referred to this in her Speech when she stated; 
Income tax indexation has been introduced, halting automatic increases in the tax burden arising from inflation. 
Tax deductions by previous governments have really been a sleight of hand because the system has had built into it an increasing burden and all that governments have done on a casual  ad hoc  basis has been to relieve the tax paying public of part of that burden. 
This Government took a more courageous step, a step designed to keep governments honest and to ensure that as a result of inflation the share taken from wage earners by the Commissioner of Taxation was not increased automatically as a consequence of the progressive rate structure used in this country. The fact is that on present figures it appears that the indexation will result in a 14 per cent adjustment of the general rebate of $620. This adjustment will be increased by 14 per cent and as a consequence people will have their pay-as-you-earn tax deductions reduced by approximately $80 a year or $1.50 a week. The rebate for a dependent spouse will be increased by a similar percentage reducing the tax burden by $65 a year or the weekly pay-as-you-earn commitment by $1.25. There will be adjustments to the steps in the rate scale so that there will be reductions in the liability at the rate of $75 a year or $1.50 a week between that level and $200 a year, or $4 a week, depending on a wage earner's level of income in the range of $ 1 40 a week or $7,000 a year up to $400 a week. Thus, it can be seen that there are already substantial tax cuts, in the old-fashioned sense of the term, built into the structure. 
The unfortunate thing is that people have not been made adequately aware of it. I hope that the Commissioner of Taxation, when he is preparing his documentation for this year, makes clear to the taxpayers the effective result of the automatic indexation of the tax system. It should be translated into weekly terms. People do not understand what the long word 'indexation' means but they understand it if it is shown as a reduction in pay-as-you-earn tax that they would otherwise have had withdrawn from their pay packets in dollars and cents each week. It can be demonstrated clearly that as a result of tax indexation from 1 July or from the first pay day thereafter many people will receive $6.40 a week extra take home pay. Others on lower incomes of, say, $100 a week will get $2.10 extra a week. Those on $200 a week will receive $3.40 a week extra take home pay. If those people were to receive a wage increase before tax had been paid they would need amounts substantially in excess of those to gain the same benefit. 
I now turn to another aspect of the tax structure. I think tax reform is more important than tax reduction, although tax reduction in itself is of great urgency. The manner in which the present tax system imposes its burden is inequitable in many ways. As a result individuals and households adjust their behaviour patterns to the inequities of the system. Often the nature of these adjustments to the life style of society is contrary to the objectives of the Government and to the desires and wishes of the public at large. Unless in looking to ways in which the tax system can be reformed these inequities are removed we will find that governments will be required to undertake programs which in the long run are far more expensive than the revenue a government would need to forgo to remove inequities from the tax structure. In the process we would find we would be condoning the social engineering that is implicit in the inequalities of the present tax structure. This is happening today in the treatment of families with young children. The longer the present inequalities remain in the system the greater will be the pressure for child care facilities. More and more children will be looked after by mother substitutes because the tax structure is not neutral in its impact and as a result fails to guarantee mothers genuine freedom of choice as to who should care for their children. 
Our present tax structure lacks the neutrality that it should have. People should not be influenced to choose one course of action rather than an alternative simply because of the greater benefits to their taxation positions under one of the options. Australia is one of the few countries where the sole unit of personal income tax is still the individual. This may be appropriate in a majority of cases; nevertheless many taxpayer families are disadvantaged by this system. The system was designed when the vast majority of households received only one income. That is not so today. The number of 2-income families is rising rapidly. The calculation of tax according to the income received by each individual imposes an unfair burden on many taxpayers. The available statistics indicate that the majority of mothers with children under 6 years of age stay at home rather than go to work. This is in contrast to the fact that the majority of mothers with children of school going age have a job outside the home. 
There are many good reasons why those with young children should remain at home. Many do so because they choose to care for their own children in spite of the high price they pay by way of the personal income their families forgo. But this price is further increased by the inequitable burden imposed on their husbands when they work more overtime or take part time second jobs to make up for the reduction in the gross household income. If that annual household income has been $10,000 while both were earning, their combined tax liability would have been $ 1 , 1 63 if each had earned $5,000. It would have been $1,271 if one had been earning $7,000 and the other $3,000. But if the husband, because his wife chooses to stay at home to look after young children, takes overtime and earns $10,000 the family's tax liability would be $1,779. Thus the family's disposable income would be approximately $500 less than if both had continued in employment. The enormous tax advantage of having a given household income earned equally by husband and wife can be clearly illustrated in a table which I have had prepared. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many citizen band radios were seized during 1976. 
In respect of how many of these sets have prosecutions been launched. 
As a result of these prosecutions, how many sets have been confiscated. 
Will prosecutions be launched in relation to all other sets seized. 
5 ) If not, will the sets be returned to their owners. 
-Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications give an assurance that persons making submissions supporting the legalisation of citizen band radio will not be raided by officials for the purpose of seizing and confiscating any citizen band radio equipment in their possession? Did the Minister advise the public that copies of the paper on citizen band radio would be available to the public? Has his Department refused to supply them? Has it advised members of the public to get them from the Australian Government Publishing Service? Has it taken up to 6 weeks for his Department or the AGPS to provide this information to those who have accepted his invitation to apply for a copy of the report? How can the public - 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
During the inquiry of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation the Committee attempted to examine the extent of environmental problems caused by off-road vehicle use around Australia and to look at existing mechanisms employed by government to control the use of these vehicles. The Committee was primarily concerned with trail and mini bikes and 4-wheel drive vehicles but it also looked at the problems produced by dune buggies and snowmobiles. The Committee in fact examined the impact of all vehicles, including the family 2-wheel drive car, when used off-road. The conclusions and recommendations of this report apply equally to specifically designed off-road vehicles and conventional vehicles used off-road. The Committee examined the impact of these vehicles on the physical as well as the social environment. We were told of ORVs disturbing wildlife, destroying vegetation, causing sheet and gully erosion and destroying the wilderness qualities of large areas of countryside. We were also told of the distress the noise of trail and mini bikes causes to residents in urban areas, and of the frustration experienced by bushwalkers and picnickers when the peace of their recreation is destroyed. 
Two basic legislative approaches to controlling the use of ORVs and limiting their impact on the environment are currently in use in Australia. Both approaches involve the registration of ORVs as recreation vehicles for use off-road. The difference between them lies in the areas in which the vehicles can be used. For example, the Victorian legislation provides that these vehicles can be used off-road only in specified free access areas. The Queensland legislation on the other hand allows vehicles to be used off-road except in areas declared closed to vehicular use. We considered the implications of both these approaches and believe there may be dangers in both. The Queensland approach may result in sensitive areas not being closed to vehicular use and the Victorian approach may result in no free access areas being provided. 
On balance it seemed to the Committee that the environment as a whole can best be protected by banning the use of vehicles off-road except for specified uses and/or in specific areas. But the Committee considers it to be important that adequate areas for ORV use be set aside and for these areas to provide some challenge to ORV users. If designated areas do not fulfil the needs of ORV users they will go outside them and may threaten more ecologically sensitive parts. Combined with the legislative approach the Committee considers it vital that ORV owners be educated to understand the damage they can cause to the environment and the need for restrictions on their activities. We believe that the use of the go anywhere bush bashing or sand blasting theme of some advertisements for these vehicles is irresponsible. It is not only in the advertising of off-road vehicles that these themes are used but also in advertising other totally unrelated products. The Committee urges manufacturers and advertising agencies to accept an obligation not to encourage irresponsible use of the environment. 
The Committee recognises that all State governments are aware of the environmental dangers of ORV use and that some States have introduced control measures. Nevertheless, we feel that all State environmental authorities should give earnest consideration to the recommendations of this report. Within the Commonwealth jurisdiction the Committee has made recommendations relating to the control of ORV use in the Territories, research and education programs, noise limits for vehicles and impact controls. In conclusion, on behalf of the SubCommittee which I chaired I should like to thank the members of the staff of the Committee,  Mr Morrie  Adamson, the  Clerk  of the Committee,  Mrs Ann  Wilson, the steno-secretary who did the typing of the Committee's report and in particular I should like to pay tribute to the work done by the Committee's research officer,  Ms Jenny  Jones.  Her  work and efforts in assisting the Committee during its investigations were greatly appreciated by members of the Committee. I commend the report to the House. 
I take the opportunity of this grievance debate to raise a matter that will be of particular interest to a significant migrant community within my electorate. However, it is an issue that will affect and be of interest to other migrant communities throughout the nation. I bring to the attention of the House the urgent need for an examination of the circumstances under which Australian pensions are payable to migrants. The completion of reciprocal arrangements on social security with countries such as Italy is a matter of high priority. Because of the over-generous conditions under which Australian pensions are paid to pensioners going abroad, the conclusion of these reciprocal arrangements is of far greater interest and importance to migrants resident in Australia than to those who after a short stay here have left the country. 
We already have reciprocal agreements with the United Kingdom and New Zealand. They are based on the acceptance of the principle that the country in which the claimant is ordinarily resident accepts the underlying responsibility for providing pension assistance. They have ceased to be of much significance to former Australian residents living in the United Kingdom who, when they left Australia, were in receipt of the Australian pension, which they were able to carry with them to the United Kingdom. In fact it was recently necessary for the agreement to be amended to ensure that such persons did not receive 2 pensions- one direct from Australia and the other from the United Kingdom Government under the reciprocal agreement. 
I understand that European countries have expressed interest in the possibility of negotiating reciprocal agreements with Australia. Such agreements are commonplace between European countries. They arose from the desire to protect the rights of workers moving between these countries. European countries such as Italy in their discussions with Australia have indicated that they do not wish to follow the pattern of our arrangements with the United Kingdom. They want to enter into arrangements that are in accordance with the basic principles followed by the agreements they have with other European countries. These principles include equality of treatment under the social security legislation of each contracting party, the transferability of accrued benefits and the aggregation of periods of residence, employment or insurance in determining entitlement to rates of benefit. 
The difficulty that Australia faces in entering such negotiations is that a full Australian pension becomes an accrued benefit after too short a period. No one should dispute the right of those who have spent many years of their working lives in Australia to transfer their pension entitlements overseas if they choose to spend their years of retirement in the country of their birth or elsewhere. The manner in which general portability of Australian pensions was granted by the previous Labor Government is proving to have been most unfortunate for migrants who, though permanent residents of Australia, have not been here for 10 years. Under the portability arrangements introduced by the previous Government not only do those who have spent many years here have the right to transfer their pensions overseas, but so also do those who have spent only a small proportion of their working lives in this country. 
To make all Australian pensions portable even though the period of residential qualification was only 10 years was not a sensible alternative to the negotiation of a satisfactory reciprocal agreement with countries with which we had no such agreement. Migrants would have been better served if they had been given entitlement to pensions after, say, 3 years residence in Australia so long as they continue to live in this country and if portability of pension entitlement had been granted to those who leave Australia permanently only if they had spent considerably longer periods of their working lives in Australia than the 10 years residence which now applies. The Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty found that there are some migrants who are unable to earn an income through employment and- to quote the Commission's report- 'who suffer lack of entitlement to age and invalid pensions in their early years of settlement'. All honourable members would be able to provide many illustrations of the type of hardship which these migrants suffer, and there are some illustrations contained in the Commission 's report. The following opinion of the Commission should be noted: 
These arrangements are relics of an outdated philosophy that benefits must be earned. They cannot be justified on the premise that assistance should be given according to need. The needs of an aged or disabled migrant are similar to those of other aged and disabled Australians and we recommend that they be treated alike. 
The Commission went on to say: 
While aged relatives may not have contributed through taxes they are an important part of family and community life and the cost of supporting aged relatives of migrants is one which must be recognised and borne by the country inviting immigrant families. 
I believe that we need to change our approach to the provision of pensions to migrants in Australia. The view that I have just expressed on the basis of the recommendations of the Poverty Commission was further supported in the paper by that Commission entitled  The Welfare of Migrants.  In the chapter on Italians in Australia attention was drawn to the sizeable proportion of Italians in the lower income groups and the consequent considerable strain on such families of bringing out elderly parents mainly because they do so under a system of maintenance guarantees which leaves them for a time ineligible for government assistance. 
We need to define clearly our approaches, firstly, to pension eligibility for Australian residents and, secondly, to pension portability for those who cease to be Australian residents. It is my view that we need to apply different criteria in each instance. Australian taxpayers are already providing $20m a year to over 10 000 pensioners who have left Australia. How many of these pensioners in fact earned their entitlement as taxpayers in this country? I do not for a minute begrudge the right to receive those pensions to those who spent a large proportion of their working lives in Australia, but I fear that there are many who spent but a limited time here and become entitled to a full Australian pension. They placed a burden on the Treasury in a manner which now raises doubts as to whether those who are residents of this country and who have been here less than 10 years can be provided with an age pension. In any event, is 10 years- a quarter of the working life of the average Australiana sufficient period in which to confer entitlement to an age pension which can be taken overseas? 
If a number of countries were to adopt an approach similar to that which we have in Australia at the present time it would be possible for people to move from one pension haven to another, accumulating in each the entitlement to a full pension after spending only a short period in each country. As a result they could end up retiring in the country of their choice, being entitled to an income equivalent to the full pension paid in 4 different countries while in each of those countries there could be resident migrants with insufficient incomes. On the other hand, pensions should be payable to those who are permanent residents in Australia and who have been here long enough to be entitled to become Australian citizens if they are otherwise qualified. In the case of permanent residents in Australia, Australian benefits should not be paid only to those who are deemed to have earned them. They should be paid to them on the ground that they are permanent residents of this country. Portability of those pensions to overseas countries should however be based upon the earnings principle. The eligibility period for a full pension should be extended and part pensions should be payable to those not fully qualified but who wish to go overseas after but a short period in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is my wish to use the opportunity provided by the debate on the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill 1977 to deal with a particular aspect of our program. From time to time when we have the opportunity to consider the resources that we make available to the developing world we should review the past programs in terms not only of the quantity of aid provided but also the quality of that aid. We should ask these questions: What did it do for the developing countries? Did it assist them? Did it assist them as much as it could have done? Whatever the flow of aid we should always be prepared to look at the quality of the results that we achieve. I recognise that the aid program must necessarily include a wide range of different programs, lt must include aid of an emergency type; it must involve trade aid; it must involve technical aid; and it must involve education aid. It is the question of education aid to which I want to refer this evening. 
When we look at education aid in particular we need to ask ourselves: What are the purposes that we wish to fulfil? Are we aiming to cure a problem or do we seek, through providing aid that can be described as education aid, to prevent problems and difficulties from rising in the future? I believe that the emphasis in relation to any education aid that is given should be on the prevention aspect. Such aid should be long term in its character. I am reminded of a story told to me by a minister in a country that could be described only as a developing country. He said: If you have a one-year program, you grow rice. If you have a ten-year program, you plant trees. If your program is for 100 years, you educate people. ' I think it is important that in providing aid to the developing countries under the heading of education aid we should recognise that it will take time to achieve results. So what we should be looking to is not only the benefit to a particular student and what he will do with his life so far as that aid affects him personally, but also what he will do for his country and his people with the skills that he gains as a consequence of the education aid that we provide from Australia. 
We have an extensive education aid program. That program has continued over a period of a quarter of a century. However, I think it is time that we took stock of that program and asked ourselves whether we should give it a new directionwhether we should change the emphasis in order to achieve a greater result for the developing countries. 
The Bureau which is being established under this legislation will have responsibility for the international training and education program. It is an integral and important part of the total aid activity of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In the current Budget some $ 16.5m has been allocated to that program. It covers the training and education which we in Australia give under various programs. I shall cite some of them: The Colombo Plan, the Australia-Papua New Guinea Education and Training Scheme, the South Pacific Aid Program, the special Commonwealth-African Assistance Program. Under those programs we finance in any one year the training of between 3000 and 4000 students here in Australia. The program also covers assistance in building up the education and training facilities and capabilities in the regions to which our aid is principally directed. We provide aid to the Asian Institute of Technology in Bangkok and to the University of the South Pacific in Suva. We co-operate with universities in their mutual development assistance effort through the Australian-Asian University Aid and Co-operation Scheme. Part of that program covers projects being undertaken in Indonesia and Malaysia. 1 urge that more emphasis be placed upon that aspect of the program- that aspect which provides aid to the capacity of the developing country to train and to educate its own students. 
In recent times the Government has reexamined the guidelines that apply to the education aid program. The program is aimed at building on the goodwill that has been established in the past, but I think we need to look at the cost effectiveness of its implementation. In relation to the training given in Australia, I think that emphasis should be placed upon special group courses that involve mature students, who come from developing countries and who have responsible positions, in being trained in a wide range of practical and managerial skills. We should co-operate with universities and tertiary institutions generally and this co-operation should be expanded so that the Department of Foreign Affairs has some concern and influence in the allocation of places to students who come here from overseas. I think that the Bureau within that Department should be concerned both with the sponsored students and with the private students. 
We have these 2 programs under which there are in Australia at any one time between 1 3 000 and 14 000 overseas students. Of that number 3000 to 4000 come in under the sponsored student program at a cost, as I mentioned earlier, of about $16. 5m. This is a massive investment in the future of the countries from which those students come provided the students return to the countries from which they come. I am told that it is a relatively small percentage of the sponsored students who seek and are given permission to remain in Australia, it is running, I am told, at approximately 2 per cent, but that is a 2 per cent wastage. What I am concerned about is that that percentage is likely to rise because of the pressures upon those sponsored students created by the opportunities that are currently available to the private students to remain in Australia. 
I think that it is important that in the sponsored area we continue the criterion of eligibility based upon the developmental potential that a student will have on return to his country of origin. But I think it also important that that criterion be applied to private students. The previous Government changed that criterionremoved it. As a result, the private students who come to Australia come here on a totally random and  ad hoc  basis. If one looks at the distribution of source countries from which these students come, approximately 10 000 of them, one finds that there are certain countries and certain groups of people which provide by far the greatest proportion of them. If that is the case it is wonderful for those students who come here and one cannot in any way become upset about the opportunities that become available to the students once they are given permission to enter Australian universities, colleges or other educational institutions. But what one can criticise is the way which the Australian taxapayers' money is being used because we are not getting the maximum developmental benefit from providing the particular group of students with the education facilities that are now available; we are not getting the maximum benefit from the dollars that are spent in terms of overseas aid. 
I believe that the developmental criterion should be reintroduced. I believe that if places are to be made available in Australian education institutions to students from overseas there should be a sensitive allocation to developing countries of the places in those institutions. After all, if we look at the implicit costs of private students from overseas in our universities and other educational institutions and add in the implicit costs of the sponsored students we will find that the Australian taxpayers are spending $30m a year on these students who are not necessarily in Australia because of the developmental potential they have for the countries of their origin. It is for that reason that I believe that the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Bureau within it should have the responsibility of the total overseas student program within Australiathe sponsored program and the private program- because at the present time a significant number of private students are using the education facilities offered them as a gateway to application to remain here in Australia. So we put a huge investment in terms of overseas aid into these students and then find that large numbers of them seek to stay in Australia. On an individual basis one cannot in any way object to the choice that those students make when they apply to stay in Australia permanently. We have as a result gained many fine citizens, but I am concerned that we are not getting the maximum value in terms of overseas aid. 
I want to make one final point, that is, to urge that the emphasis on our education aid be changed. I believe we should give serious consideration to establishing what could be described as an Australian overseas university. Instead of providing as many teachers as we now need to provide to educate 14 000 students in Australia I believe that the teachers of some of those students should be made available on overseas secondment so that when they go overseas instead of teaching the number of students that they now teach in Australia they may have a far greater multiplier impact in the contribution they make to our education aid in the developing countries. We should for example have a school of community medicine that can be sent to developing countries; a school of agriculture that can go into developing countries on a secondment basis. I think this could be achieved by a small university type administrative structure within Australia so that it draws off the staff of our existing home based universities and on a secondment basis, preserving leave and status entitlements, schools or sections of schools within our universities and our colleges of advanced education could be moved overseas to countries of need there to teach in the countries where the students will themselves pursue their future careers. As a result of the money expended in that way, I believe, we could educate a substantially higher number of students in developing countries than we are now able to educate by bringing them all here to Australia. Necessarily it must be a policy of balance. 
What I am urging upon the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is that the situation be reviewed to increase the proportion of our aid that involves us in providing teachers for the countries that are developing rather than bringing their students here to Australia where so many of them, particularly in the private sector, now seek to remain. I urge that in this area we pay particular attention to ensuring that the quality of our aid is such that even on limited budgets we are achieving more for developing countries than is being achieved under the present distribution of resources going into education aid. 
I am pleased to have an opportunity to take part in this debate on the Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population. The debate and much of the discussion is looking ahead not to next year, not even to the next decade, but to the next century because the policies that we implement with regard to Australia's immigration program and, putting it in a wider context, with regard to Australia's population, will determine the manner of the future development of this country. At.the outset, I want to stress that I think Australia needs increasingly to see its immigration policy as a part of its population policy. If we put it in this context, we have to ask ourselves what we believe should be the future population levels of Australia. We must recognise that the fertility levels have declined and that the death rate has been stabilised and that those 2 influences are not likely to have a big impact on our future population. As a result, the major influence on Australia's population will be our immigration policies. 
There are some who would advocate a lifeboat Australia policy. They see Australia as a lifeboat sailing in the world sea, which should determine its population policies ignoring the situation in the rest of the world. I do not believe that we can pursue such a policy for an indefinite period into the future. I think it is necessary that we should put our population policies in a world perspective. When we do this I think we inevitably come to the conclusion that in this country we must have a migration program which is consistent with the population we have here, but which recognises the desires and needs of people from other parts of the world to come and settle in this country as many millions of people have done in the last quarter of a century. So when we read in the Green Paper that a series of immigration options have been put forward, I think that we should rephrase the term 'immigration options' and refer to 'population options '. 
A point I want to make at this stage is that over the past few years we have looked at immigration programs upon the basis of the number of new settler arrivals and we have said that there will be 100 000 new settlers coming to Australia in a particular year. That program has been of the order of 50 000 new settler arrivals in the year before last and 70 000 new settler arrivals in the current year. Some people thoughout the nation believe that our population is being increased by that number of people. They have the impression that the percentage of new settler arrivals who seek employment are net additions to the work force. Nothing is further from the truth. The fact is that the settler arrival figures give a totally false impression of our current immigration program. 
The more significant figure is the net migration figure, that is, the gross settler arrivals- the total number of people who come here to settle and live permanently- less those former settlers and former permanent Australian residents who choose to move overseas permanently. The year before last, taking account of those figures, Australia suffered a net population loss of 5000 or thereabouts in terms of net migration. With a program of 70 000 settler arrivals we still have a net population gain only of the order of 1 5 000 to 20 000. 1 believe that the time has come when the whole basis upon which the migration program is presented to this Parliament should be a presentation in aggregate terms, that is, one that takes account of the new settler arrivals less the permanent departures. In other words, the program should be presented in net migration terms- the gain to population as a consequence of the net migration movements of those who come to this country and those who leave it permanently. I was pleased to see attention drawn to this aspect in the Green Paper, in these terms: 
Net migration, rather than gross settler arrivals, is used in measuring population growth due to immigration, as it takes account of departures from Australia. The gross settler arrival figure represents only the number who arrive for settlement in a given period. If immigration was stopped, population growth in Australia would be determined by natural increase (i.e. excess of births over deaths) less the number of persons leaving for residence abroad. It is difficult to forecast the magnitude of the possible departures should this situation arise. 
So I believe that we would be deluding ourselves if we were to think in terms of migration just on the basis of the total number of settler arrivals without taking account of the permanent departures from this country. When we turn to look at the options available to the country as suggested in the Green Paper- a small program, which would involve a gross migrant intake of 30 000 to 50 000 people; a medium program with a gross migrant intake of 90 000 to 120 000 people; and a large program with a gross migrant intake of 170 000 to 200 000 people-I believe that we should be going for the option of either the medium program or the large program in the knowledge that in the case of the medium program the net population gain through migration would be 50 000 new settlers and that in the case of the large program the net population gain would be 100 000 new settlers. There have been many years in the past when Australia has been able to accommodate that number of new settler arrivals and to absorb them. 
There is a significant difference in the results of these 3 options. In the first case, if we follow that program we must have a very restricted program of family reunions. In the medium option we can have a wider family reunion policy and, in the third, we can have a very generous family reunion policy. I am concerned that our family reunion program is far too restrictive. In many of the source countries from which our migrants have come the family means not merely a dependent parent or a dependent child but brothers and sisters and their families. Those communities depend very much upon the extended family, and when they want to nominate members of their family they should not be prevented from doing so. The only way in which we can assist them in having family reunions as they understand them is to expand the migration program so that, in net terms, we are receiving something of the order of 50 000 to 70 000 migrants-a total settler intake of 100 000 to 120 000 people. In this way there could be many more family reunions. 
I urge the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  when he looks at this question to recognise that family reunion is based upon humanitarian grounds. If a young man has a fiancee back in his country of origin he should be allowed to bring her out here so that they can marry. If his parents are back in his country of origin, likewise they should be able to join their son and possibly their grandchildren in this country. The humanitarian ground is clear. In the case of people who wish to marry perhaps the numbers to some extent are self-regulatory because many of the people who have come here in the past have come here as family units. But I know that many applications are made by Australian settlers who wish to bring brothers and sisters to this country, who can provide them with employment and accommodation, yet they are not permitted to come. 
I think that the whole question of brother and sister nomination schemes should be reviewed and that ali ethnic communities should be allowed to nominate the same number in every 1000 of their population in this country to come out as migrants. I do not believe that one community because it has put in a large number of applications should be favoured over another community that has put in a smaller number of nominations but which has a much larger community here in this country. The report contains some very interesting figures. I draw the Minister's attention to them and ask him when reviewing the family reunion program to have a far more relaxed policy with regard to the brother and sister and more distant relative situation to enable those communities which have large numbers of people in this country to have the same rate per 1000 of nominations as some of the other communities which have lodged a larger number of applications. 
I now want to raise one question that is often brought forward in this debate. I have received some correspondence in recent weeks because of the publicity received when I asked the Minister a question concerning the migration target. The matter I want to raise is the effect of migration on employment. The Green Paper says this: 
A worry in the past 3 years has been the connection between migration and unemployment in Australia. Yet there is a certain illogical position for those vehement critics of immigration who see the stimulatory effects of immigration during inflation but fail to admit the potential for recovery from recession in the same source. 
I am one who believes that, on balance, migrants create employment not only for those migrants who seek a job when they arrive here but also for unemployed settlers who are already in this country. Certainly large fluctuations in the migration program are likely to cause a loss of confidence and a loss of employment opportunities, and to expand unemployment whereas a stable or an increasing migration program will have a stimulatory effect and will create more job opportunities than the migrants themselves will seek. 
Finally I draw the attention of the House, and particularly of the Minister, to the importance of seeing migration in terms of Australia's population policy. I think the time may have come when we should again look at the title of the portfolio which the Minister now holds. In recent times it was changed from Immigration to Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I believe that consideration should be given to changing the title to Minister for Population, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to draw attention to the significance of migration in terms of Australia's total population program. Unless there is someone with responsibility for population development within this country all the impacts of changing rates of population expansion will tend to be ignored as a consequence of no one having prime responsibility for this area. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he state in a Press statement issued on 25 January 1977 that copies of the discussion paper on citizen band radio were available by writing to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. 
If so. how many written requests have been received by that Department for copies of the discussion paper. 
How many copies have been made available in response to these requests. 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of excessive wage claims being made by unions in the building industry? Would the Government's actions directed towards the control of inflation be seriously jeopardised if such claims were granted? 
-We have just heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  huff and puff about the States (Personal Income Tax Snaring) Amendment Bill. He suggested that members of the Government Parties want to see one or other of the States disadvantaged. What members of the Government Parties want, and what the Government desires, is to ensure that all States are fairly treated; that they are treated with equity and reasonableness. The aim of this legislation is to ensure that the proportion of the income tax available to the States is shared in a manner which enables each State Government to provide services for the people of its State at a standard not appreciably different from the standard of government services provided by any other State. If we get to a situation where one State, due to changing circumstances, finds itself relatively advantaged and another State relatively disadvantaged, we in the Government Parties believe that there should be an adjustment to ensure that all Australians are able to experience the same level of government services, provided of course that the State governments make the same or appropriate efforts to achieve those standards. 
The suggestion by the honourable member for Adelaide that this matter had not been discussed with the Premiers is false. It has been discussed at at least three and perhaps four Premiers Conferences. Indeed, the Premiers have all agreed that there should be periodic reviews of the relativities between all the States. Yet, listening to the honourable member for Adelaide, one would get the impression that the Premiers were opposed to a review of the relativities. So weak was the honourable member's argument that he had to fabricate differences between the Commonwealth Government, the Prime Minister and the Premiers. The Premiers made it quite clear at several Premiers Conferences, and at the last one in particular, that they agreed that there should be periodic reviews of relativities and that those reviews should be designed to achieve a distribution of the income tax revenues to the States in order that each State Government could provide a level of service to its people equal to that which could be provided by other States. 
The only matter upon which there was some difference of opinion between the Premiers and the Prime Minister was the body which should determine the relativities. The Government reached the conclusion that a decision had to be made. It therefore decided that the highly reputable body known as the Commonwealth Grants Commission should be given the authority to report to the Premiers Conference as to any adjustments that should be made to the relativities. The honourable member for Adelaide again came out with the argument that we were putting it to the Grants Commission in a manner which would result in there being an appeal from Caesar unto Caesar. What nonsense! The Grants Commission is merely to be given the responsibility of making recommendations to the Premiers Conference. The Premiers can then consider those recommendations and, if they are of the opinion that the views expressed in the report of the Grants Commission are inappropriate, they can at that time make suitable decisions. But I believe they will find that the experience, the integrity, the expertise of the Grants Commission is such that the recommendations made by the Grants Commission for adjustment to the relativities will be so compelling that they will find it necessary to adopt those recommendations. 
The right of the 4 less populous States to make applications to the Grants Commission between the quinquennial reviews of relativities as between the States is to be preserved. To listen to the honourable member for Adelaide, one would imagine that once relativities were adjusted they would necessarily apply for all time. But honourable members on this side of the House recognise that a growing and developing community is dynamic. There is a change in the ability of one area, one region, one State compared with another area or region or State in the way in which it can provide services to its people due to changing circumstances. 
He does not understand at all that one State can at the time of review have discovered no minerals, no oil reserves, and yet within that period can bring on stream huge royalty revenues as a result of discoveries made in the meantime. If we are to achieve the objective of standards of a similar level in each of the 
States there will be occasion for adjustment between the major quinquennial reviews, and the smaller or less populous States will still have the right to make application to the Grants Commission. I do not think there is a small or less populous State which has ever questioned the capacity of the Grants Commission to bring down fair and equitable reports in relation to those applications. The responsibility to be given to the Grants Commission is, as the Minister said in his second reading speech, a natural extension of the work that is now undertaken by the Commission. It has developed a methodology for making these reports, and that experience and expertise should be drawn on yet again. The use of the Commission avoids unnecessary duplication in any way, and I again draw to the attention of the House the fact that the reports to be made by the Commission are advisory. It is for the Premiers and the Prime Minister in the ultimate to make a decision as to whether or not a report made at any one time will be accepted. 
Under the tax sharing arrangements made by the Government with the States, income tax is now shared between 3 spheres of government. Under the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act, which this Bill seeks to amend, the States receive 33.6 per cent, or 33.6c in every dollar, of all personal income tax paid by wage and salary earners and other taxpayers. Under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 the third sphere of government, local government, receives 1.52 per cent of all personal income tax collections. The balance of 64.88 per cent, or nearly 65c in every dollar, is left for the use of the Commonwealth in discharging its responsibilities. In addition to providing the States with 33.6 per cent and local government with 1.52 per cent of all income tax, those 2 Acts do a number of other things. Firstly, they prescribe the proportions in which each of the entitlements shall be made to the States, on the one hand for State government purposes and on the other hand for local government purposes. Secondly, they provide for the review of the distribution as between the States. 
Under the Act relating to local government, the Minister responsible for the Act is required to refer the question of the relationship of the shares of local government in each of the States to the Grants Commission for inquiry and report. However, the Act gives no direction as to the criteria the Grants Commission is to apply in determining the interstate relativities. It is to be noted that the States are required by the Act, that is, the Act making available 1.52 per cent of income tax for local government, to distribute 30 per cent of that on a population basis. The  per capita  distribution can be weighted on account of the size of population, the size of the area, the population density, and the area of local government bodies receiving the grants. The balance must be allocated on general equalisation principles, and it is important that we should look at those principles. They are spelt out in the legislation and require that local government bodies have the money distributed to them so that each body within the State can provide in its local government area a standard of local government services similar to the level of services provided by other local government bodies within that State. The legislation provides the governments of the Commonwealth and the States with an excellent opportunity, firstly to increase the tax base or revenue jurisdiction of local government as a whole, and secondly to ensure so far as practicable that each local governing body within a State is able to function by reasonable effort at a standard not appreciably below the other local governing bodies within the State. 
In a recent review of the interstate relativities of the distribution of that portion of the income tax available to local government, there was considerable discussion as to whether the Grants Commission should make recommendations in accordance with equalisation principles or on a basis more akin to a  per capita  distribution. I urge the Government to give consideration to the amendment of section 12 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act in order to include in it a provision with a purpose similar to that proposed in the present Bill in respect of the distribution of the States' share of income tax. 
This Bill will amend the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act in 2 principal respects. Firstly, it will enable the Minister to refer to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for inquiry and report on the desirability of the change in the interstate relativities in the distribution of the 33.6 per cent of income tax now ear marked for use by the States. Previously, that power was vested in the Minister in respect of the distribution of the local government share of personal income tax. It was not available to the Minister in respect of the States' share of income tax. So in that respect, the 2 Acts after this Bill has passed this House and another place, will be similar. 
Secondly, this Bill prescribes something which is not contained within the Local Government (Personal  Income  Tax Sharing) Act, something which I believe should be in that Act. This Bill provides that in the case of a report being called for from the Commonwealth Grants Commission in respect of the distribution of the States' share of income tax, the Commission shall make its report adopting certain criteria. The Bill prescribes the criteria to be used by the Grants Commission in conducting its inquiry. The amendment makes explicit the Government's objective, namely, to ensure that the payments to the several States shall enable each State:  to provide without imposing taxes and charges at levels appreciably different from the level of taxes and charges imposed in other states, government services at standards not appreciably different from the standards of the goverment services provided by other states. 
The Government should be just as explicit in regard to the objectives it has in mind in allocating the share of income tax available to local government. 
Existing legislation is aimed at ensuring that each local government body within a State is able to function by reasonable effort at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other local government bodies within the State. It should go further and require the Commonwealth Grants Commission to distribute local government's share of income tax as between the States so as to ensure that local government bodies within one State are able to function by reasonable effort at a standard not appreciably below the standard of local government bodies in another State. In reporting as to how this might be better achieved through changes in the distribution of the State by State local government sharing of income tax, account should be taken of the different capacities of local government in each of the States to raise revenues. Account should also be taken of the differences in the amount required to be expended by local government in each of the States to provide comparable services. The dollar value in one municipality differs from the dollar value in another. It is more expensive to build a community infrastructure in the north west of Western Australia than it is in some of the major cities to the south and in the east. Likewise, there are some circumstances in which municipalities within cities find that a dollar spent on a particular project does not go as far as if that same dollar were spent on a similar project in an outer urban suburb. 
An alternative approach would be to amend further the legislation which is being amended by this Bill so as to require the Grants Commission in assessing the relativities as between the States to bring into account under its definition of government services those services normally performed by the States and those normally performed by local government within the State in order that under the tax sharing arrangements as between the States there are proper relativities drawn to enable the States to ensure that their local government bodies are able to provide similar services to those available in other States. If this is not done, there is a danger that some States will be considerably disadvantaged by the Grants Commission's failing to take proper account of the disabilities that a particular State might have with respect to the provision of those services normally provided by local government. 
If one of the approaches that I have outlined be not adopted, this disadvantage to a State could have serious consequences over the years ahead. A State with a limited capacity to raise revenue or a State which is faced with relatively higher costs in providing comparable services may now be able to provide only State and local government services at standards similar to those provided by other States because the share which it now receives, a share determined by past history, is sufficient to enable it so to support its local government authorities that its State right functions and its local government right functions can be provided at a standard similar to that provided in other States. I therefore urge the Minister, when reviewing this legislation in the future or when reviewing the local government personal income tax legislation, to ensure that a similar provision is included in the local government legislation to make certain that the Grants Commission takes account of the need to equalise the local government operations within one State with the local government operations within another State. Otherwise we will find that there is a severe disadvantage potentially imposed upon certain States. 
I want to conclude by saying that the Grants Commission is the most effective body to determine the allocations as between the States. If it were left to the haggling at the Premiers Conferences, the Premiers could manipulate the system by reducing the proportion available to one State in the knowledge that it could then come back for supplementary assistance under the existing Grants Commission arrangements. It is essential that the relativities between the States be determined by an independent authority. The best independent authority, the authority with the standing within the community, the one that has been accepted over a number of years, is the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Employment Service inform the Department of Social Security of persons registered for unemployment who refuse an offer of suitable employment. 
If so, does the Commonwealth Employment Service keep statistics of these reports. 
If statistics are kept, how many persons have been reported in each State in each month since 1 July 1976. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware thai the South Australian Government is in trouble over the quality of the water available to Adelaide? This water which I now show honourable members came out of Adelaide's water mains. Is the South Australian Government giving the water filtration program a high priority in the allocation of its resources or does it give this program priority only if someone else pays for it? What resources is the South Australian Government allocating to the program and how much assistance has it sought from the Commonwealth? Will Commonwealth assistance be available to ensure that South Australians are not disadvantaged by comparison with the residents of other States because of the high cost of providing drinkable water? 
-This debate on a report by a committee of the Parliament on the situation in the Middle East is a significant one, coming as it does in a year when the world is tackling one of the world's greatest problems. I was fortunate to be a member of the fact finding mission that recently visited the Middle East. I hope that as a result of goodwill on the part of all men the opportunities now available to find a peaceful solution will be taken. If they are not, war will confront the world-not merely the Jews and the Arabs and not merely the Middle East but the world. I was reminded of a quotation which reads as follows: 
When the situation was manageable it was neglected and. now that it is thoroughly out of hand, we apply too late the remedies which then might have effected a cure. There is nothing new in the story. It 's as old as the  Sybilline  Books. It falls into the long dismal catalogue of the fruitlessness of experience and the confirmed  unteachability  of mankind. Want of foresight, unwillingness to act when action would be simple and effective: lack of clear thinking: confusion of counsel until the emergency comes, until self-preservation strikes its jarring gong. These are the features which constitute the endless repetition of history. 
Those remarks were made by  Mr Winston  Churchill in a speech on the Middle East problems delivered in the early 1 930s. I would hope that in 1 977, when the situation is manageable, the opportunity to achieve a solution is not neglected. If the opportunity is passed by we will reach the situation where self-preservation will strike its jarring gong. I believe it is important to recognise that the solution must be found for the sake of the peoples of the Middle East and also for the sake of the peoples of the world. War in the region is inevitable if a solution is not found. It could be a war with conventional weapons. It could be a war using the oil weapon. It could equally be a war with horrific nuclear weapons. To prevent such a conflagration, the effects of which would spread beyond the relatively small region of Israel and the confrontation states, every effort must be made to achieve a solution to the problem. 
Israel 's right to exist must be and I believe will be recognised by the significant adjoining countries. Equally the right of the Palestinian peoples to a homeland must be recognised. There must be a solution that results in a real peace- a real peace which is accepted by both sides and one which, as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said, is based upon trust. Having visited those countries, I have found in each of them an aspiration for peace and security and an aspiration for an opportunity to develop their countries for the well-being and happiness of their peoples. What worries me is that when they express those views on the public platforms of the world they express them in a way which results in the appearance and sometimes, all too often, the reality of confrontation. 
I think it is a sad situation for the world that so often conflict has arisen because of the different mental or philosophical processes that drive men to express themselves in particular ways. What mankind has failed to do has been to bridge these philosophical gaps and to recognise that there can be different approaches to problems even when peoples are striving for a similar goal. If we look not only at the Middle East but also at other areas of tension and conflict we often find that the tension and conflict arise because of the basic attitudes of the peoples involved. I do not believe that enough effort and study has been given to an analysis of those processes. I think that it is important to recognise that the differing peoples in the Middle East approach things from a different basic philosphical background. But that difficulty of bridging those gaps must be faced and must be overcome because if it is not there will be in my view in the all too immediate future, as I have mentioned, a confrontation that could envelop the whole world. 
The confrontation could come about either because of external pressures on the states adjoining Israel or because of political pressures within those countries. It could come about because of internal political pressures within Israel. It could come about because of the problems confronting the dispossessed Palestinian peoples. I think it is essential in a process that leads to a recognition by all those involved of the right of Israel to exist that Israel also recognises the importance of finding a homeland for the Palestinians- a homeland on the West Bank; a withdrawal by Israel, subject to relatively minor adjustments, to the borders that existed prior to the 1967 war and a guarantee then of those borders by one country against the other. 
I have purposely used the phrase 'a Palestinian homeland'. I do not believe that the Arab nations want an independent Palestinian state any more than do the Israelis. But Israel is faced with a dilemma. We have heard speakers in this debate say that Israel is proud of being a democracy. Israelis are proud of their democratic institutions, but if they pursue a course which involves the annexation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip- an annexation of over one million people added to the 500,000 Arabs presently within the original 1967 borders of Israel- Israel would have a population of 3 million Jews and 2 million to  2]A  million Arabs. In a democracy where the changing balance of birth rates could influence the future destiny of that country it is clear that annexation would not be a solution that would overcome the problems of the future. Therefore I think that it is essential that Israel recognises the need for there to be a homeland for the Palestinian people. I support the moves being made by  President  Carter and supported by the Australian Government. It is very important that this come about because the Palestinian people need the opportunity, just as the people of Israel, to raise their economic standards and to raise their educational standards. As the standards of education rise and the standards within economies rise, so the need for political equality and political involvement arises on the part of those within a region. I think that there is no way in which there can be continuation of a situation of military domination that would result in the people now living in the West Bank areas being deprived of the political rights to which they would be entitled, any more than anyone would want to see the people of Israel deprived of their political rights. 
In the remaining minutes at my disposal I would like to touch on two or three other aspects that came to my notice during the delegation's recent visit. I want to pay tribute to the Australian ambassadors working in the countries that the delegation visited. I would like to say, however, that I believe that it is important that there be adequate opportunities for personal exchanges between ambassadors and the staffs of embassies so that the people working in one country in the region have at first-hand experience the opportunity to discuss with their colleagues. I think that they should not be dependent upon the written report because the written report cannot always convey the impression that must be conveyed if there is to be complete understanding of the difficult and tense situation. I think, too, that it is important that we look very carefully as to the permanent establishment of our embassy in Damascus. I think that the importance of Syria is such in the light of the devastation of the Lebanon that the retention of an embassy in Damascus is of very great importance. I also agree with the recommendations contained in the report of the Joint Committee on the importance of Australia providing military attaches to our ambassadors in the region. Those countries have probably the greatest amount of armament of any region in the world. Insofar as we believe that we should develop our own defence potential we should at least have an understanding, as expressed through the eyes of military men, of the techniques and skills being adopted by countries that have the greatest degree of military build-up of any region in the world. 
Finally, I touch on another point very briefly. I raise the question of migration and the effort that Australia has put into assisting the distressed peoples of the Lebanon. I raise a word of caution. I am concerned that there are many who in a situation of tenseness seek temporary refuge in the country to which it is easiest to go. At the present time, under certain conditions, from certain countries, Australia is the easiest country in which to obtain refuge. We have always been opposed to the concept of the guest worker. We have wanted permanent migrants. I believe that many of the people who come here as refugees from the Lebanon and from other countries do not come here with the idea of remaining permanently. They come here with the idea of getting an insurance premium. That insurance premium is Australian citizenship and perhaps an Australian pension. One they have gained these benefits they can return at the time of their choosing to the country of their origin to remain there for the rest of their lives. They have in their pockets the Australian passport- or insurance premium- to enable them to come back here if the going gets too tough. I do not think that is a role to be played in a refugee policy. I think people should be allowed to come if they wish to come here permanently. 
-The House is debating the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the existing legislation so that in future it will accord with the recommendations contained in the latest report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission concerning the distribution between the States of the local government tax sharing entitlements which are provided for under the principal Act. 
It was said earlier today by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that this was not a significant Bill because it made only minor variations in the entitlements as between the States. I do not agree with him. I think it is a very important Bill because it demonstrates quite clearly how the Government's federalism policy is working. The Bill is significant, not because of its length or because of the extent of the change to the present arrangements; it is significant because a change is being made. The Government's federalism policy recognises that we live in a dynamic society, a society that is constantly changing. Included in those changes are the changing relationships between the spheres of government- the changing responsibilities and the changing challenges that face different levels of government. Differing disabilities arise from time to time. Other spheres of government gain from advantages of the discovery, for example, of new wealth and resources. 
The fact that a State, in relation to its local governments' entitlement to a share of a proportion of income tax, felt that a review would give it a greater share and that the Commonwealth was willing to place the matter before the Grants Commission for consideration indicates that the Commonwealth is flexible in its attitude. I hope that from time to time when any State feels that due to changing circumstances a reassessment is necessary it will feel free to come before the Commonwealth Grants Commission and have the circumstances of its local government entitlement reassessed. I thought it rather odd at the time that in the very week m which the Grants Commission brought down its report indicating a willingness to make a variation to its previous recommendations some of the States were saying that the Grants Commission was not a sufficiently objective body to determine the relativities of the distribution of income tax between the States. 
I was pleased to read in the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  that a suggestion I made when the legislation which is now the principal Act was being debated in this chamber that the legislation should contain a requirement that the Grants Commission should distribute money between the States on equalisation principles is now being examined by the States. It is noteworthy that, as stated in the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the two larger States advocated a distribution of the share of income tax on a per capita basis. The other States and the Commonwealth Treasury urged upon the Commission that it should distribute the money on an equalisation basis. I believe the decision taken by the Grants Commission to distribute the funds on an equalisation basis is the correct approach. However, I do believe also that it is important that local government within the States be guaranteed that that will be the basis of distribution in the future. 
All those who appeared before the Grants Commission urged that, before any major review was undertaken, much more time should be given to an examination of all the relevant facts. U nless the Grants Commission is given an indication of the Commonwealth Government's desire with regard to the application of equalisation principles, this whole question of the basis of distribution might well be raised again. It is important that the Grants Commission should be given such an indication because, unless it is made clear that the share of income tax that is to be passed on to local government is to be distributed on an equalisation basis as between the States, some States might suffer a double disadvantage in that if equalisation principles are not applied to this money they might not be applied in the determination of State relativities. Alternatively, it is possible that unless some directions are given double compensation will be given because equalisation principles could be applied in the distribution of funds for local government while the same principles could be applied in respect of distributing money to the States and in the process the needs of the local government bodies of a particular State could be again brought into account. 
What the Commonwealth Government surely is seeking to achieve is an equitable distribution of the resources available to three spheres of government. That needs to be done in a manner which each sphere understands and under a system that avoids argument which could result in the duplication of assistance or, equally, that could result in no assistance being given where help is deserved. Therefore, I am very pleased to know that this matter is under active consideration. I hope that, given appropriate thought, all State governments and the Commonwealth Government will reach a solution which is equitable as between the States and equitable so far as local government is concerned. It is my view that local government can best be served by local government money being distributed on an equalisation basis so that local government in a particular State that needs special support is not necessarily dependent upon the State government for that additional support but can rely upon that support coming through the recommendations of the well reputed Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
In recent weeks announcements have been made concerning the distribution within each of the States. The House will recall that the arrangements contained within the legislation before it provide for a distribution of at least 30 per cent of the funds on a per capita basis and the balance on an equalisation basis. I think it will be interesting when all the reports of the local government grants commissions within the States are tabled. They will need critical and careful analysis to see whether objective principles have been applied and to see that the funds have not been distributed on an ad hoc basis. It is terribly important that each local government body within a particular State should be fairly treated. 
I might mention a concern I have that the requirement that a minimum of 30 per cent of the funds be distributed on a per capita basis leaves it open to a State to distribute too great a proportion on that basis and to have inadequate funds available to distribute on an equalisation basis. Equally, I am concerned that the provision which enables a State to distribute these per capita funds upon the basis of the size of the local government body, its population density or its area, enables a State government to distort the allocation so that we do not achieve the objective set out in the principal Act, namely, that each local government body within a State should be able to achieve a standard that is not appreciably below the standards of other local government bodies within that State, given that each local government body makes an adequate effort to keep its standards to that level. 
Therefore I urge the Minister and the Government to examine carefully the reports of the six local government grants commissions. That examination should not be seen as Commonwealth intrusion because it relates to the interrelationship between three spheres of government. What this Government is trying to achieve is a better fiscal balance between those three spheres of government so that their resourcestheir tax base- are adequate to enable each sphere of government to fulfil effectively the responsibility that falls upon it. 
I was interested to note that the Minister in his second reading speech made reference to the distribution of 1 . 52 per cent of income tax. I remind the house that when introducing the principal Act the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
I want to emphasise, however, that the Government regards the figure of 1.52 per cent as a minimum percentage. It is subject to review. 
The Minister, in introducing the Bill which is before the house, said: 
The Government considered the matter of the 1.52 per centage share when framing the Budget but decided that it could not see its way to increasing it in the present economic circumstances. 
I think all honourable members would appreciate the difficulty of the present economic circumstances. However, I am pleased that the Government recognises its earlier commitment to review the quantum or the percentage share of income tax that is to go to local government. It is to be noted, however, that even in these difficult economic times the amount available to local government this year is $ 165.3m compared with $ 140m last year- an 18 per cent increase in the allocation to local government. My experience is that local government recognises the efforts being made by this Government to increase the resources available to it to enable it to carry out more effectively its functions. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who spoke before me in the debate was somewhat critical of the Commonwealth Government's proposal under which we had set up in each of the States a local government grants commission to distribute the resources available to local government within each of the States. I wonder whether he and his colleagues are proposing that those commissions be abandoned and that the total responsibility be handed over to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The honourable member did not make that point clear. I wonder whether, in the light of the experience so far and in view of the changed arrangements for the distribution of the funds going to the States, that is what the honourable member is proposing. You will recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the States were concerned about the suitability of the Commonwealth Grants Commission as the body to determine those relativities between the States. 
At the July Premiers Conference it was agreed between the States and the Commonwealth that a commission should be set up which comprised three members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, two members nominated by the States, one member nominated by the two more populous States and one member nominated by the four less populous States. That again is an illustration of the Commonwealth's flexible approach to trying to find a sensible solution to resolve the problems to be found in the relationships between the spheres of government. I wonder, in view of what the honourable member for Adelaide said, whether, instead of concentrating the determination of relativities of the distribution of moneys between the local government bodies within a State, the appropriate way to resolve the matter would be if the Commonwealth Grants Commission were to have on each local government grants commission in each of the States a commissioner so that there was information available to the Commonwealth Grants Commission in order that it could more effectively allocate the local government share of income tax as between the States. Perhaps the honourable member for Adelaide might like to make inquiries of his State Labor colleagues to see whether they would agree to that sort of proposal. 
I do not believe that the cost of running these local government grants commissions within the States should be seen as an obstacle. If it were to become an obstacle I believe, in the interests of establishing a smooth arrangement for the reallocation of resources as between the three spheres of government, the Commonwealth should give consideration to funding those grants commissions in a manner similar to that by which it provides the funds for the operation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. In that way then there could be a more sensitive appraisal of the needs of local government as between the States and the local government bodies within each State. 
This piece of legislation is very significant because it confirms the Government's acceptance and recognition of local government as a sphere of government. In our policy statement on federalism the Government said:  the Liberal and National Country Parties wholly support the concept of federalism in which there are three areas of government- Federal, State and local . . . 
In our policy on local government we said: 
The policies are designed to provide major reforms in the finances and functions of local government and a new copartnership for it with the Federal and State spheres. 
By our policy we have demonstrated our intent; by our actions we have fulfilled that intent. We have done so by recognising local government in that we have given it a share in income tax. We have also given it representation on the important and significant Advisory Council for InterGovernment Relations. But there is a challenge before the community at large and before local government in particular. What is needed is an indication from local government of its true aspirations. I believe that local government has an aspiration to be an independent, autonomous sphere of government in a three sphere federal system. But if we are to achieve that goal it is necessary that local government clearly enunciate that aspiration. There are very important issues to be considered. 
In a report that was prepared recently by the Joint Study into Local Government Functions in Australia and New Zealand some interesting conclusions were reached. Firstly, the report stated that local government throughout 
Australia has never wholly performed the role of local community self-government? Secondly, the Joint Study stated:  . . those changes need to be related to broad philosophic principles on the role of governmental and intergovernmental relations. 
It is important that local government indicate its desire to fulfil the role of community self government and not to be merely an administrative arm of State government. The same report also stated: 
Local government sees itself as a decentralised agent of State governments. 
The question I ask is this: Does local government want to remain a decentralised agent of State government or, for that matter, of any other government? In a true federal system it is not only administrative responsibility which is shared between the three arms of government; it is legislative power- the power to legislate. That power needs to be shared in a manner whereby it cannot be withdrawn. The power that is now in the hands of the States cannot be withdrawn by the Commonwealth. The power that the States conferred on the Commonwealth cannot be withdrawn by the States. The power that is conferred on local government, in my view, should be conferred in a manner whereby it cannot be withdrawn. There is, therefore, a need for local government to proclaim clearly its aspiration to be an independent, autonomous sphere of government in a federal system that has three cooperating spheres of government. This legislation is a step that will aid in the achievement of that goal if local government rises to the challenge. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Resources. I ask: Has any study been made of the economic benefits to South Australia of development of that State's uranium deposits? Can the Minister inform the House as to the employment opportunities which the development of uranium in that State would provide? 
-Can the Prime Minister inform the House of the extent of disruption and damage to economic revival being caused to the country by irresponsible strike action? 
-We have just heard the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  talking about the provision for pre-school education and child care centres. What he failed to do was to indicate to the House his attitudes to the overall matter of the care and education of young children. What this country needs above all things is a philosophy for the family. It needs to examine decisions that are taken for the allocation of funds, whether they be in welfare payments, in tax rebate systems or in the provision of capital grants. These provisions need to be assessed with regard to their impact upon the family. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Grayndler to say that all things will be resolved by the provision of greater amounts of money to the States. I am always amazed to hear State governments and Ministers raise to the highest priority matters for which they do not have to pay- matters for which they are seeking resources from another government. It is time that the State governments fulfilled their responsibilities by getting their own priorities right. I come from a State where pre-school education is free and where there is provision for pre-school education for in excess of 80 per cent of the children in the four to five year age group. If South Australia can do it it is doing so because it has had a succession of governments which have sought to recognise the need to advance policy development across a range of areas. 
There are States other than South Australia in which many important areas have been neglected by State governments and all that they have done in their neglect has been to endeavour to place the responsibility on the Commonwealth Government The States have been given greater resources under the Government's federalism policy . It is time that the States exercised their responsibility and allocated greater proportions of funds into the area of childhood services, not merely into child care or pre-school education but into services to support the family in order that children can be brought up by their families and given appropriate care and education so that when they do start school they can begin their formal education without disadvantage. 
I had intended to touch on the matter of the 
E revision made for families in the social security budget. Before coming back to that I turn to the provision made for the aged. This year's estimates for the Department of Social Security must be assessed in the light of the major reforms achieved since the present Government was elected to office in 1975. Since then pensions have been indexed so that each six months- in May and November- they are automatically adjusted to take into account increases in the cost of Living. A far more equitable income test has replaced the means test formerly used to determine pension eligibility. Assets are no longer brought into account in determining a person's entitlement to a pension- which itself is income. Only income is brought into account. 
Substantial programs for the provision of a range of accommodation for the aged are being implemented. Deficit funding of charity-run nursing homes has been continued and nursing home benefits payable to patients in other nursing homes have been indexed. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table, should be congratulated for removing from so many hundreds and thousands of patients accommodated in nursing homes the fear that they would within too short a time find themselves unable to pay for the accommodation and care they need. That this imaginative and much needed reform has been introduced is in large measure due to the diligence of the Minister for Health and the work that he has put into achieving a situation whereby at least 70 per cent of the beds in privately operated nursing homes will be available at a fee which the pensioner can afford. 
Furthermore, the tax system has been reformed so that pensioners with small incomes will no longer be subject to tax liability. The Hayden Budget introduced tax liability for pensioners. Pensions were made taxable. The threshold level- the level at which that tax was first imposed- was far too low. Many hundreds and thousands of pensioners who had not paid tax for years suddenly found that they were Liable to pay tax. This Government in this Budget's tax reform has so lifted the tax threshold that pensioners now in receipt of the exempt income, for means test purposes, of $20 a week are no longer liable to pay any tax if their income is below that level. Furthermore, a new scheme of family allowance has replaced the old child endowment and tax concession rebate arrangements. 
At the time the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty reported it considered that the existing means test could be improved in several ways. The report pointed out that a means test which included a treatment of assets was a relic of the past, and that it stood in the way of:  . . . the rational integration of the pension means test with other income tested benefits and with the income tax. 
The relic has been removed. The income means test has been introduced. By this action, a major advance towards this rational integration has been achieved. Income from assets is now treated in the same way as other income. The value of assets no longer affects pension eligibility, but full integration of the pension income test with what must be described as the income tax test has not yet been achieved. In fact, little progress has been made towards this objective. 
The new social security income test imposes a SOc in the dollar rate by which pension payments are reduced as non-pension income rises. It is essentially similar to an income tax, with a marginal rate of SOc in the dollar. The main difference between the pension income test and the income tax test is that one reduces a liability of the Government to the citizen and the other increases a liability of the citizen to the Government. Each involves the assessment of a person's income, yet the Commissioner of Taxation and the Director of Social Services each require pensioners to lodge separate returns, detailing the income they have received over a specified period. 
It is my view that one return should suffice. Today it is not even possible to send a duplicate copy of the same return to the two departments. Each has its own form. Their layouts are different; different definitions are used; some items are deductible from income in one case and not in the other. Though eligibility to pay tax and eligibility for pension are both defined on an annual basis, the Department of Social Security makes its assessment for the year in prospect, whereas the Taxation Office is concerned about the year past. 
Those who resist suggestions that there should be a rational integration of Social Security's income test and the test used by the Taxation Office will endeavour to make the differences sound so impressive that they seem insurmountable. I contend that the similarity between income for tax purposes and income for social security purposes is so strong that ways and means must be found to overcome the differences and the difficulties. Pensioners should be required to complete one return only. An assessment should then be made of the net liability of the Government to the pensioner or the pensioner to the Government. 
Without an effective co-ordination between the income test used by the Department of Social Security and that used by the Taxation Office, the total tax effect of the rate at which pension is withdrawn and tax liability imposed will deprive those who seek to improve their position of so much of the increase in their non-pension income that incentive to self reliance will be destroyed. Pensioners are in fact being taxed at a marginal rate of 66c in the dollar. This double taxation must be removed and the marginal rate of tax must be substantially reduced. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Chairman, I protest at the suggestion that local calls should be timed. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
-My queston is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommuncations. Has the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal been ap- 
E reached recently about the imbalance in aleged political broadcasting? If so, what decision did the Tribunal make? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in opening my speech in this debate, I ask you to convey to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees my congratulations and good wishes on their election to their high offices. The Governor-General in his Speech said: 
My Government is committed to a wide program of social legislation which will help those in need, increase opportunities, and bring about greater social justice. 
I want to identify to the House tonight a significant and large group of people in the Australian community whom I believe are in need. I am referring to Australia's families. They are in extreme need at the present time and there is an urgent requirement that governments should look at the needs of families to give them support so that they can fulfil the role that has traditionally been theirs and that I believe the Australian community wants them to continue to perform. 
In a report tabled in the Parliament today it was acknowledged that of all our institutions the family is the most influential in terms of human relationships. There is no doubt that the family has a high standing in our social and political rhetoric. Most lament the deteriorating state of the family in Western society. Few do anything about it. The time has come when something must be done. The main focus of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships sees the principal purpose of the family as providing for the care and upbringing of the children. However, the family has been stripped and is still being stripped of many of its functions- its responsibility for the education of young children; its responsibility to provide the socialising experience for young children; its role in the past as a productive unit; its functions and responsibility to be the unit that conveys social values to young children; and its responsibility to provide to its members some measure of economic security. Many of these roles have been taken away from the family; yet Australians want the family to have an increased responsibility in the areas to which I have referred. 
In debates on social policies, the family as a social unit is often lost from view. Governments generally ignore the existence of the family. They concentrate on the needs of the individual and the needs of the state and forget the needs of families. Their approach to the family has been one of laissez faire. I believe that there is an urgent need to develop a national family policy. I was most encouraged that those of us in the community and in the Parliament who have been urging that something be done in this direction were able to read today in Volume 4 of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships that the Commission is of the view that the Government should initiate a national family policy. 
As a nation we have been failing the family. We have been moving inexorably towards a new way of rearing children without giving a second thought to its consequences or the aspirations of Australian families. Over the last two decades families have been under immense pressure. Sometimes the policy initiatives that have been intended to assist families have had a counterproductive effect. In many instances, policies are introduced and measures are put onto the statute book without consideration being given to their impact on the viability of families. Without a conscious family policy we leave a great deal to chance. It is time we stopped taking these risks with the future of the nation. 
There is an urgent need for Australia to have a positive and coherent approach to the family. Competition between the individual and the state and concentration on self-fulfilment have resulted in the family being left out of the public debate. As a result, many of the responsibilities formerly shouldered by families have been transferred to the state. Policies to assist families have been given lower priority than those to replan them. This suits those who believe that the care and education of young should be the responsibility of the state. Movement in this direction will continue unless the needs for the family are recognised, and recognised urgently. 
The time has come for us to embrace values more supportive of the family. The other day I came across a quotation that I think is worth bringing to the attention of the House. It reads: 
If preachers are not to be believed, and politicians are not to be trusted and society as a whole is a jumble of lies and tricks then the family may still be the best bet available and may be even better than being liberated into loneliness. 
It is a matter of regret and deep concern that government policies have rarely taken account of the needs of the family. Indeed policies often have an impact contrary to the interests of the family. Wages, taxation, education, employment, social security and many other policies are and should be used, in the words of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 'to protect the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society'. There has been a significant change in wages policies. Yet appropriate adjustment has not been made to the financial viability of families to take account of changes in wages policies. Allowances for dependent children have not been raised to a level sufficient to take account of those changed wages policies. 
It is interesting to note that when  Dr Myers  recently conducted an inquiry for the Government into unemployment benefit, he recognised the changes to which I have referred. He pointed out that it was difficult to see why unemployment benefit should include a supplementary allowance for dependent children when no such benefit is available to the wage earner. In his view it is more appropriate for allowances for dependent children to be made through another system of income support which would take no account of whether a claimant is employed. He also recommended that, as there are now so many two-income families in which both husband and wife are members of the work force, each should when unemployed be eligible for unemployment benefit. However he properly emphasised the importance of protecting the interests of married couples with only one partner working. The increasing number of twoincome families makes it imperative that we decide whether women with family responsibilities should be able, if they so wish, to remain within the home to bring up their children. Existing fiscal and social policies must be changed if they are to be able to make this choice freely. These policies must ensure that the standard of living of a family with children and a single income does not compare unfavourably with that of twoincome families and of single men and women. 
The Government now makes provision for dependent children through family allowances. The introduction of family allowances has been welcomed by some people as an essential start to a family support system. But the inadequacy of these payments is manifest. Pensioners and those people in receipt of unemployment benefit receive supplementary payments if they have dependent children. Other families with dependent children receive no such payments. As a result of economic necessity rather than choice, many mothers of young children are forced to work. As the children become older, personal choice plays a greater part in the decision. Single income families are in urgent' need of assistance. In my view they are in need of at least as much help as twoincome families which suffer hardship when one member becomes unemployed or cannot find a job when he or she is available for work. If the survival of many families depends on two incomes because one income is insufficient, as concluded by  Dr Myers,  how can society expect families with young children to survive on one income? 
Unless increased family allowances and adequate parent allowances are provided, those mothers who wish to look after their young children have no choice but to seek paid employment. As the criteria used for determining wages no longer takes account- nor should they- of the needs of those wage earners supporting families, we must look to the tax structure and the social security system to recognise the needs of families. Along with social security, pensions, benefits and allowances, the tax structure forms part of the welfare transfer system. The social impact of both the tax structure and the welfare transfer system must be looked at to find out the extent to which families need more support. In the past tax deductions allowed for dependants moved less rapidly than the rate of increase in prices. Child endowment was rarely adjusted to compensate for the declining purchasing power of the dollar. 
In 1975 a tax rebate system replaced tax concessions. The rebates for dependants were set at levels which made them worth more to the taxpayer than the concessions that they replaced. In 1976 the tax rebates for dependent children were superseded by increased child endowment payments which were renamed 'family allowances'. These movements stopped temporarily the erosion of public support for families. Stopping erosion which had occurred for more than two decades was important, but temporary halt in this process is not in itself sufficient. Indeed the support for families must be increased to more realistic levels and must be maintained in value. In spite of continuing inflation family allowances were not adjusted last year and, though indexed, the tax rebate was not increased to remove the tax disadvantage of the single income family. Pensions have been indexed to ensure that they are increased every six months in accordance with the upward movement in the cost of living. 
If the Government wants more revenue from income taxes, it must now publicly vary tax rates because indexation prevents it from using inflation to achieve this result without legislation. The Government should not use the fixed money value of family allowances as a means of raising additional resources to provide for other needs. Family allowances should be indexed. If one takes account of the movement in prices one would see that there was a saving to the Government last year of $ 1 1 4m as a result of the failure to adjust family allowances. This year the saving should be $96m. The Government should apply to itself in relation to family allowances the principles it has applied in the area of taxation. If it wants to reduce the real value of family allowances it should do so explicity and not by allowing inflationary movements in prices to erode the value of those allowances. Indexing family allowances at their present levels would not provide families with the support that they need. The allowances must be increased substantially above the level which compensates for the increases in the cost of living since they were last adjusted. As resources are limited, those families with the greatest need should be assisted first. They are the families which include children under six years of age. The majority of these families are single income families. Fair social security and tax systems will enable those women who feel forced to work to stay at home. But such systems should not force those women who want to work to stay at home. 
In Australia we are a long way from the optimal tax treatment of the family. We tax the individual and give limited recognition to family responsibilities through tax rebates for dependent spouses and family allowance payments for dependent children. At present our tax system is neither equitable nor neutral so far as the family is concerned. Economic equals, that is families with similar incomes, should be treated equally but they are not. Nor is the system such that families are not influenced to choose one course of action rather than another solely because of the greater benefit to their taxation position under one of the options. The tax now payable by a single income two-parent family is substantially greater than the tax payable by two individuals each earning half the income. In fact, in many instances the additional tax burden placed upon the single income family is more than $600 a year or $10 a week. This applies to a family where the mother is providing support for her family and children at home. 
Some would argue that the household economies available to a family make the heavier tax burden on the family justifiable. Many single income earners live in households where they benefit from similar economies, and no adjustment is made to their tax liability. Also many two-parent families with two incomes pay less tax on the same aggregate income than a single income family. The tax liability on families, especially those with young children, should be independent of the proportions in which the income is received by the family. 
I put forward two ways to remedy the situation. Firstly it could be done by allowing families with young dependent children to split their incomes on a notional partnership basis. Alternatively, the same result could be achieved by increasing the spouse's rebate in respect of those families who are supporting young children from $550 a year to $ 1 ,040 a year and at the same time making an adjustment in the rate at which that benefit is withdrawn by having it withdrawn at a rate equivalent to the standard rate of tax- 32c in the dollar- as the nontaxpaying spouse 's income rises. 
A number of other things should be done to assist families. I am of the view that we must identify what Australians want as family goals. Only then will specific policies be designed to achieve these goals. Only then will other policies be analysed to ensure that they are not inconsistent with the attainment of these family goals. To ensure that Government proposals are reviewed from the point of view of their effect on family life, we should do what many have urged and what the Royal Commission on Human Relationships has recommended. We should require that all Government legislation that is likely to have an effect on the viability of families is subjected to a family impact statement. 
I sum up my remarks this evening in this way: I urge the Government to initiate a national family policy. I want it to convene a conference on families to assist in the development of a national family policy. What better year than this to convene such a policy? It could be part of Australia 's response to the United Nations Year of the Child. I also urge the Government to require all Ministers and all departments to prepare family impact statements so that the effect of decisions by those departments on family circumstances can be properly analysed and taken into account before final decisions are taken. I want to see the examination of household incomes. The Government should recognise the urgent need both to index and substantially to increase family allowances. It should also acknowledge the importance of removing the penalties now imposed on families by the tax structure either by allowing income splitting or replacing the dependent spouse rebate with a parent allowance at a substantially higher level than present rebates. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Does the Government propose to initiate a national family policy, as urged by members of this House and many concerned members of the public and as now recommended by the Royal Commission on Human Relationships? Will the Government use the concept of family impact statements as a means of assessing the effect of government decisions on the family? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is it a fact that New Zealand has reduced its tariff on motor vehicle components imported from Japan and the United States of America from 45 per cent to 35 per cent whilst at the same time it has increased its tariff on motor vehicle components imported from Australia from 20 per cent to 25 per cent? Could this move cost Australian manufacturers $20m in export orders with a consequential decline in employment opportunities in this country? Did New Zealand consult Australia before making this move in accordance with the undertaking agreed to by  Mr Talboys,  the New Zealand  Deputy  Prime Minister, in November last year? If not, has New Zealand reneged on its obligations under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement or is it attempting to double-cross Australia? 
-I enter this debate tonight to bring to the attention of the House the totally inadequate insurance protection available in respect of passengers lulled or injured in aircraft accidents. The limited protection available to aircraft passengers is in marked contrast to that available to passengers of motor vehicles. There is an urgent need, firstly, to provide that compulsory third party liability insurance be taken out by all airline and aircraft operators and owners. Secondly, there is an urgent need to prevent insurance companies including conditions in contracts for insurance which enable them to escape liability because of pilot negligence or breach of aircraft navigation regulations. Thirdly, there is an urgent need to increase substantially the limit of liability now applying to those cases in which passengers or their dependants are not required to establish fault on the part of the aircraft operator or his crew as a prerequisite to compensation. 
The House will be aware that the liability of operators of domestic airline services and charter services is governed by the Commonwealth Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act and complementary State Acts. This legislation imposes on operators no fault liability to compensate injured passengers and their dependants to a limit of liability of $45,000. This amount is ludicrously low when one considers the level of damages being awarded by the courts to victims of motor car accidents. The right to compensation of those injured while flying in aircraft engaged in private operations depends upon the injured party's ability to prove negligence. It is to these persons that I wish to direct the attention of the House tonight. There is no obligation on the operators of these aircraft to insure against third party personal injury claims. Tragically for those people injured in accidents involving aircraft of this kind, those against whom they could obtain substantial judgments are off en men of straw. 
There is an urgent need for the law to provide that it be compulsory that third party personal injury liability insurance be taken out by all people who own aircraft. Some of those people who engage in private aircraft operations do enter into insurance contracts. From the point of view of those people injured, these insurance policies are barely worth the paper on which they are written. They are worth so little that anyone who flies on a private aircraft should think not twice, but three, four or five times, about his interests and the interests of the members of his family because these insurance policies are so inadequate that they do not give the protection which should be given. They require that the insured will not breach either airworthiness requirements or air navigation regulations. These conditions provide an easy 'out' for and an 'out' which is often taken by the insurer. Proof of the negligent act which establishes the liability for the injured passenger's right to compensation is often the ground upon which the insurer escapes and avoids liability. 
Insurers should be prevented from escaping liability by relying on breaches of the Air Navigation Act or of the regulations made under it. In this day and age it is anomalous that passengers travelling in light aircraft do not have the same protection as passengers travelling in motor vehicles. While the anomaly remains, great hardship is being and will continue to be caused. Legislation similar to that applying to motor cars is urgently needed to protect passengers who fly in light aircraft. In view of the not inconsiderable use of light aircraft for carrying passengers, both paying and non-paying, it is in the public interest that full insurance cover be provided for passengers. Until there is adequate insurance cover for passengers who use these aircraft, those people who fly in them are taking unwarranted risks and should in fact avoid flying. Few passengers are competent to know whether the pilot of the aircraft is complying with regulations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired! 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Will the form of local government to be established at Aurukun and Mornington Island be such that the new bodies to be established will become entitled to funding under the local government income tax sharing arrangements? Will those bodies be entitled to, firstly, per capita allocations similar to those received by other local government bodies in Queensland and, secondly, to a distribution in accordance with equalisation principles that take account of the needs of the communities they serve? 
-The motion draws attention to statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and censures him for his mischievous and misleading public statements. He has repeated them today. He has added to them. He is creating even greater difficulties for the industry about which he claims he is concerned. He criticised the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  for raising the matter in this House. The Leader of the Opposition is the one who initiated the debate and caused and exaggerated the difficulty being faced by the car industry. He seeks to be a prophet of doom and then to bring about the doom and gloom which he phophesied. He is critical of those people who want to draw to the attention of the public the irresponsibility of his actions. 
In the last statement he made this afternoon, when he suggested that a solution to the problem would be a reduction in the rate of sales tax imposed on motor cars, he was again creating mischief because as a result of that statement speculation will run through the community. He, as Leader of the Opposition, has put forward this suggestion. As a result of his actions car sales over the next few weeks could fall significantly. The Leader of the Opposition was a member of a government which undertook a series of actions which were damaging to the motor car industry and other industries. The Leader of the Opposition was a member of a government which reduced tariffs by 25 per cent. He was a member of a government which took that action in the face of a report which indicated that there would be a substantial reduction in employment as a consequence of that action. He now makes statements concerning the established motor car manufacturers in Australia, indicating that one manufacturer in particular in his view could be in difficulty. 
What he fails to do now is what he failed to do when he was a party to the tariff reduction of 25 per cent, namely, to understand the implications of his statements to a significant, settlement region area of employment. If we look at the consequences of the 25 per cent tariff reduction we find that unemployment was increased in a number of small settlements, in country towns, in Tasmania and in other areas away from the major cities of Melbourne and Sydney where there were no or very few alternative job opportunities. In calling into question the viability of the motor car manufacturers of Australia and in pointing in particular to Chrysler Australia, whose one industrial plant in Australia is in South Australia, the Leader of the Opposition is undermining the economic viability of metropolitan Adelaide and of South Australia generally. This is one of the most serious consequences of his statements. This indicates that this House would be quite justified in declaring those statements to be utterly and completely mischievous. The difficulty which his statements could cause in metropolitan Adelaide is of very great proportions. He, along with the South Australian Government, is slowly- and, in more recent times, quickly- taking away the confidence of private industry. 
They cannot deny those facts. All the statistics indicate that the industrial base of South Australia and of Adelaide in particular is being seriously weakened now by a combination of the actions of the Leader of the Opposition here and of Dunstan, the South Australian Premier. 
If we look at the employment figures for South Australia we find that there has been an astounding drop in employment in manufacturing industry. Although this reflects in part an Australiawide trend, the drop in employment in South Australia has been accentuated by the actions of Labor politicians, in particular by supporters of the South Australian Dunstan Government. The disappearing confidence which is being brought about by that Government is being accentuated by the activities of the Leader of the Opposition, who has failed to appreciate and understand the regional implications of his statements. 
On the other hand, the Fraser Government has recognised the importance of regions and in its amendments to legislation concerning the Industries Assistance Commission has required that body, in examining any tariff changes, to take account of the impact on employment in significant population settlements- a unique, new and significant move. The efforts of such a body could be brought to nought by irresponsible statements such as those which we recently heard from the Leader of the Opposition. He, along with his colleagues in the South Australian Parliament, is creating a serious situation for South Australia. Recently an article entitled 'Spartans are at Adelaide's walls', appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  The article stated: 
South Australia is facing an industrial slow down, highlighted by slack investment, losses or retrenchments in the vital whitegoods area and acres of unsold new cars. 
In recent weeks we have found the Leader of the Opposition accentuating the causes of those problems and supporting the irresponsible activities of the South Australian Labor Government, which is bringing about the loss of confidence of business leaders in metropolitan Adelaide, a flight of capital and a significant movement of people away from metropolitan Adelaide and, as a result, is causing not only a down turn in the industries directly affected but also a significant fall in job opportunities in related industries as far afield as the housing industry. 
Let me return to the article in question which appeared recently not only in the  Australian Financial Review  as a report by Christopher Jay but also in papers in metropolitan Adelaide. It is important that the people of South Australia realise that their past prosperity is being destroyed by the Dunstan Government and that the destruction by that Government of the economic viability of a community of 800,000 to 1,000,000 people is being promoted by the gloom and doom of the Leader of the Opposition. Let us look at what  Mr Jay  had to say about the housing industry in South Australia. Reporting on a recent conference which had been held, he spoke of papers which had been presented at that conference, and which contained projections of reduced housing demand in various parts of Australia.  Mr Jay  referred to a conversation with an official of the South Australian Government.  Mr Jay  reported: 
But when the results were being digested later in the day, one South Australian official confided cheerfully that on some projections Adelaide hardly needed to be building any new houses at all at present. 
This prophet of doom, having pointed the bone at Chrysler Australia Ltd, will now set about with the same missionary zeal he displayed in his forecasts of doom in relation to devaluation and our overseas balances, to bring in reality the death of that organisation. Insofar as he achieves that goal the implications for metropolitan Adelaide and the people of South Australia are vast indeed. The time is coming fast when those people must recognise that the Leader of the Opposition and his socialist colleagues in the Government of South Australia are destroying the lifestyle that the people of South Australia have enjoyed since the Liberal Government was in office in that State. 
It is important that the people of South Australia appreciate that the typical socialist technique is to apply the tourniquet treatment. Let me illustrate this by drawing the attention of the House to the State Labor Government's promotion of so-called industrial democracy. The hard liners in the Labor Government of South Australia would compulsorily have union and Government representatives on boards, leaving the shareholder representatives in a minority. Every now and again the Premier tries to call people together and say: 'Look, we do not really mean what we say'. That releases the tourniquet for a while. People relax but the tourniquet is not fully released. In a few months the Premier again will make a statement which is consistent with his party's policies. So, as a result of those statements and of the concern they cause amongst industrial leaders and business enterprises in South Australia, those enterprises go not off-shore but off-State. They leave South Australia. They move their headquarters to other States. Perhaps the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who I heard interjecting earlier, would not mind this because he is pursuing his own vested interests. He would like to see an expansion of the enterprises of the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd and he knows that they will expand if he can encourage the Leader of the Opposition to prophesy doom concerning Chrysler's manufacturing plant in South Australia. Let members of the Labor Party deny that a possible conspiracy can be assumed from the irresponsible statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
In South Australia manufacturing industry has been a very significant employer of labour but over recent years, as a result of the policies of the Dunstan Government, job opportunities in manufacturing industry have declined rapidly. The slack has been taken up to some extent by government employment and South Australia has the highest percentage of government employees of any State. But that situation has been brought about because of the temporary availability of the proceeds of the sale of the State's railways. There is not much more of the farm that can be sold, nor are there any buyers who would pay the sort of price that Whitlam paid for those railways. Of the South Australian Government 's Budget of $ 1 , 171m, an amount of $5 30m is spent on salaries. The  Deputy  Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran,  recently said that a number of new factories and businesses had been established in South Australia in the last 12 months. I call upon him to give a detailed list of the names and number of employees of those industrial establishments. I call upon him also to identify the number of establishments which have closed or which have reduced their work forces. I am concerned to know that in recent weeks surveys are tending to indicate that the number of job opportunities available in manufacturing industry in metropolitan Adelaide has been declining rapidly. This situation is becoming permanent. 
As my colleague says, the jobs are going interstate. They are being replaced by machines and capital is leaving also simply because in South Australia we have a socialist Government which enters and takes over industry. The South Australian Government has expanded its insurance corporation; it has entered the clothing hardware industry and it has indirectly entered other industries, through the mechanism of the State Bank of South Australia and the Savings Bank of South Australia, by imposing non-banking conditions on the circumstances under which loans will be made available. It is time we recognised that the statements of the Leader of the Opposition are causing mischief to the development and expansion of South Australia and that he has conspired in this action, either directly or indirectly, with his colleagues in the State Government. The sooner this House recognises that the industrial viability of metropolitan Adelaide is threatened by members of the Labor Party, the sooner it can adopt policies which will ensure that Adelaide can continue to expand and to provide the opportunities for employment and lifestyle that the people of that State, through their hard work in the past, deserve now and in the future. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Is sales tax reduction a remedy for the ills of the motor vehicle industry or is it an irresponsible prescription? Is the Treasurer concerned that deferment of planned vehicle purchases caused by the speculation sparked off by the cynical statements of the Leader of the Opposition may worsen the position of the industry? 
-The amendment which has been moved by the Opposition to these two Bills now being debated is very significant because it exposes the fact that the Hayden led Labor Party has the same attitudes to the structure of government within this nation as the Whitlam led Labor Party. There is on the record the statement by the honourable member for Werriwa,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, in the Chifley Oration where he expressed the view that in this country he believed there were two few States and too many local government bodies. In their place he wished to see a structure of regional administrative organisations with the totality of legislative power centralised in Canberra. We on this side of the House believe that a centralised government with all legislative power based in the hands of that one government centred here in Canberra is dangerous for Australia, dangerous for its people, dangerous to their freedom and dangerous for their democracy. 
Therefore, having seen what the Labor Party attempted to do when it was in office, we have set about introducing a federalism policy that is designed to underpin the federal system to ensure that there is a distribution of power, to ensure that those legislative bodies- the State local governments- have adequate resources to enable them to fulfil their obligations in terms of their legislative responsibilities. In our policy statement we identified the fact that federalism is not merely a structural concept. Its principal justification is a philosophical one. It aims to prevent dangerous concentration of power in a few hands. In so doing it provides a guarantee of political and individual freedom. As an aspect of that belief we hold the view that it is important for the governments in Australia that they be effective. To be effective they must be accountable for their actions, and in being accountable for their actions they should raise the moneys which they spend. 
How often do we hear State Premiers and Ministers in State governments indicate that they have a project of the highest priority? How often do those six star projects of the highest priority remain on that list with that priority only on the basis that another government will fund the project? I come from South Australia as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and often I hear 
Ministers of the Labor Government in that State putting forward projects that fall into that category. I only wish at times that they would be more accountable for their actions. I wish they would look to see that they are using the resources they are receiving in the most effective fashion. I can understand that they may wish to maintain a level of employment within their Public Service and within their Public Service agencies, but what I question is whether or not they are using those people they employ in the most effective way. For example, Adelaide is in need of a water filtration system. How effectively is the  Deputy  Premier, the Minister of Works, using the work force of the Engineering and Water Supply Department, because he uses the opportunity of saying that projects of that department have high priority if funded by Canberra? He blinds himself to the important need of being accountable for the actions of his own department. 
Having outlined that general basis upon which this legislation is founded I want to come to the aspects of the Bill. The States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill is designed to change the present arrangements so that the tax to be received by the States is calculated as a percentage of the income tax collections of the preceding year instead of the current year. Under the arrangements in the first instance the States are to receive $4,336m for the year ended 30 June 1978. Next year they will receive 39.87 per cent of the income tax collections received in the preceding year. The amount is now predictable. The States can do their Budget planning far more effectively than was the case when the figures were based upon the current year's income tax collections. 
The Bill also puts the arrangement on a similar basis to that under which local government operates. It means that when each of us as taxpayers receive tax assessments we can see that out of the total of 100 per cent of tax collections we will be able to identify the fact that 1.25 per cent at the present time of those taxes goes to local government, that 39.87 per cent goes to the States and the balance is retained by the Commonwealth for the fulfilment of the Commonwealth's direct responsibility. It also is important that the House should recognise the fact that under this legislation a new division of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to be set up. That fact shows how the present Fraser Government is willing to discuss matters with the States and to reach agreement with them. That new division of the Commission will include representatives of the two more populous States, two representatives from the four less populous States and three commissioners appointed by the Commonwealth, including the  Chairman. 
The role of that division will be to determine the appropriateness of the relativities of the distribution of the funds available to the States. The circumstances of the States change from time to time and it is important that an expert objective body should make a proper and adequate assessment of the manner in which those funds should be distributed in order that the equalisation principles can be fulfilled. In that way each of the States is enabled to provide, without imposing taxes and charges at levels appreciably different from levels of taxes and charges imposed by other States, government services at standards not appreciably different from the standards of the government services provided in other States. In other words, it is to enable the States to provide somewhat similar services on the basis that they collect somewhat similar amounts of taxes from their own people and as the changes do occur within the economies of the various States it is important that there be this adjustment in the manner in which the sums available are distributed between the States. 
As time goes on and we look not only at the appropriateness of the total amount that is distributed to the States I hope that the States, being given through enabling legislation- which I hope will soon be introduced- the right to impose a surcharge or grant a rebate thereby will be given a good deal of flexibility. In receiving that flexibility the less populous States, those which are less advantaged than others, will receive a very beneficial arrangement because there is a special equalisation arrangement relating to those surcharges which gives to the less affluent States the right to have the amount of the taxes they collect on a per capita basis built up to the amounts that would have been collected if the same surcharge had been imposed in the States of Victoria and New South Wales. 
I want to make one other point before I sit down. I will sit down before my time in this debate is up because it is the desire that this legislation should be put through the House this evening and I know that there is one other honourable member on the Opposition side who wishes to speak. I think he should have the opportunity to do so. I just want to draw to the attention of the House the important aspect in the legislation that relates to the Northern Territory. The Grants Commission is to be given authority and to be charged with the responsibility of determining the appropriate amount of revenue to be made available to the Northern Territory as it gains self-government so that it receives out of the income tax shared an amount similar in type to the amount of resources received by the States. 
I hope it will not be long before legislation is introduced to include in this income tax sharing legislation a percentage, in addition to the 39.87 per cent, of income tax that is to go to the government of the Northern Territory. I should point out also that the Northern Territory, like all the less populous States, will have the right, if it feels that it has been inadequately dealt with, to seek special assistance from the Grants Commission. In that way the Northern Territory is being put in a position similar to the position in which the States find themselves. I think this legislation is a very important element of the implementation of the Government's federalism policy. The fact that the Opposition has chosen to criticise the legislation on the basis that it rejects the new federalism policy is clear proof that it still adheres to its centralist aspirations of bringing all legislative power to Canberra and putting at risk the freedoms of the Australian people and the very democracy which provides us with those freedoms. 
-This Bill provides utterly inadequate cover for the persons to whom it is directed. It is my view that the statutory amount now payable in respect of people injured in aircraft accidents, that is, $45,000, is scandalously low. It is also my view that the provisions relating to those who are injured in aircraft that are not chartered aircraft or not flying on schedules are utterly inadequate too. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  inform the honourable member that we are dealing with the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1978. It would appear that the honourable member's remarks should be directed to another Bill. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-This really is a momentous occasion not only in the history of this Parliament, but also in the political development of the Northern Territory. Today in this House we are being invited to affirm that this Parliament considers it desirable, by reason of the political and economic development of the Northern Territory, to confer self-government on the Territory and for that purpose to provide, amongst other things, for the establishment of separate political, representative and administrative institutions in the Territory and to give the Territory control over its own treasury. Up to now there has been a measure of responsible government in the Northern Territory but it has not been self-government of the quality proposed by this Bill. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  suggest that he and his colleagues support self-government in the Northern Territory, yet, at the same time, they want a referendum as an act of self-determination. It would seem to me that they are anticipating the result of such a referendum. They cannot have it both ways. They cannot say with one breath that there should be a referendum and then say that notwithstanding that referendum they support selfgovernment. The Government parties support self-government for the Northern Territory. We believe it is right and proper that the people of the Territory should now have the sort of control over their own affairs that we who come from electorates in the original States have in our own State parliaments. 
We also believe that the people of the Northern Territory through their elected representatives have made it quite clear that they too want self-government. As the Territory is moved along a road towards the ultimate goal of statehood this Bill is one of the most significant milestones on that road. It is probably a milestone, a mark, a position from which there is no return. It is true that technically and legally this Parliament under section 122 of the Constitution can withdraw the powers that are being conferred by this Bill. But I put it to the House that that would cause a political confrontation of the nature of the confrontations that arose when the colonies of Great Britain were themselves seeking either full independence or self-government. From a political point of view this legislation is the point of no return. I think it is important that members of this Parliament, the people in the Northern Territory and the nation appreciate that fact. 
As  chairman  of the government members federal affairs committee I want to thank firstly the members of that committee and secondly the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  for their involvement in the preparation of this legislation. The committee has spent many hours on this matter and has made a great number of suggestions. Except for two or three the Minister has acceded to the wishes expressed by that committee- wishes which arose from a genuine feeling that the legislation as originally proposed could be made better. There is, however, one aspect, with which I shall deal later, about which I personally have some very serious concern. 
In conferring self-government we do two things. Firstly, we separate legislative power from administrative power and confer legislative power on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Secondly, we give the Assembly executive authority so that it can execute, implement, put into action its legislative decisions. Therefore, let us first consider the legislative power we are conferring upon the Assembly. Clause 6 of the Bill states: 
Subject to this Act, the Legislative Assembly has power, with the assent of the Administrative or the GovernorGeneral, as provided by this Act, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Territory. 
That will confer on the Assembly complete, plenary powers. In my view it will confer on the Territory a legislative capacity which the six States of the Commonwealth do not have. I believe that that legislative power should at least be limited to the power which was conferred upon the States. I cannot for the life of me understand why we should rely on the implicit significance of existing constitutional conventions and legislation to ensure that there is a limitation on the power of the Territory. The legislative power of the Assembly will be so full that if the Assembly could pass legislation by obtaining assent- I am thinking of 20 or 30 years ahead- it could raise its own army, impose its own customs duty or make its own coinage. 
Let us look at the Australian Constitution to see how this situation comes about. It is true that under section 122 of the Constitution the Commonwealth can confer only the powers that it is authorised to delegate. In a legal sense the powers which it delegates to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly can be withdrawn. But as I said earlier, in political terms a withdrawal of those powers as from the passage of this legislation may well become impossible. The powers which this Parliament is able to confer on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly are limited by the Constitution. For example, it cannot confer a power that would enable a breach of the full faith and credit provision of the Constitution. It cannot confer a power that would enable the Territory to legislate to discriminate on a religious basis. But in relation to the powers to which I have referred section 1 15 of the Constitution states: 
A State shall not coin money, nor make anything but gold and silver coin a legal tender in payment of debts. 
The Territory will not be a State. It will be a selfgoverning Territory. We will give it plenary power. It will be a body politic with its own Treasury. Because we will give it wide legislative power it will be able to coin its own currency and raise its own army if it can pass legislation. The provisions which prevent the States from raising armies do not prevent a Territory with plenary powers from doing so. This Parliament can confer that power. I think it is absurd that we should be giving such a broad authority to the Territory. I do not believe that the Territory wants it. It wants to be in the same position as the States. This Parliament should say so. It should also say that in accordance with section 5 1 of the Constitution, if it exercises authority and passes a family law Act or a bankruptcy Act such Acts will have priority over any exercise of legislative power by the Territory. It has been argued that if a Territory under broad legislative powers attempted to pass legislation to enact its own bankruptcy law, for example, such a law would be repugnant to the Commonwealth legislation and therefore would yield. That is correct in a strictly legal sense but as we advance down the path towards statehood or perhaps even a branch track to independence there could come a time when the conventions and political arrangements between the two entities are such that the Territory could have the legislative capacity to pass laws that were contradictory to the laws of the United Kingdom, just as South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria have. True, there was the Colonial Laws Validity Act, and there are other diplomatic arrangements, but who is to say that along that path towards statehood we will not find the emergence of those types of relationships which cause people to say that the Territory is becoming so independent that, having given it those broad plenary powers, we cannot withdraw the authority. How are we going to stop that? We give to the GovernorGeneral the right, in a period of 6 months, to disallow the legislation passed by the Territory. Does that mean that we in Canberra will have a monitoring unit looking at every piece of legislation of a self-governing territory? That would make a mockery of self-government. 
If the Territory Legislature sought to pass an excise or customs duty, what would happen if a taxpayer challenged a particular class of tax, claiming that it was a customs duty, that the parliament of the Northern Territory had not the power, but the High Court said that it had, because we had given it plenary power. The six months period having elapsed, we would have a self-governing territory with a capacity to tax in ways different from the capacity conferred upon, or remaining with, the six original States. As a representative of one of those States, I resent that. I believe that we want to be a federation; that the Northern Territory should advance to statehood and arrive at a position where is becomes a State as an equal partner in our Federation. I therefore urge upon the Minister as strongly as I can that he go back to his advisers and ask that they be explicit in this legislation and give the Territory plenary powers to the extent that the States have such powers, but make it subject in all other respects to the Constitution of the Commonwealth. 
I turn now to the manner in which we are to give executive authority. Irony of ironies: we give them plenary legislative power and then, when we come to the conferral of legislative authority, we say, 'We will give it to you by regulation, piece by piece, article by article'. The time has come when, if we mean to confer selfgovernment, we should confer upon the Territory an executive authority equal to its legislative capacity. Assuming that capacity is limited in the way I have outlined, it should be an executive authority as broad as a State's. There may be some exceptions and, because we are moving along a road towards statehood, I would acknowledge that there might be a desire to say, Well, it is not for 12 months that we will want them to have executive authority in matters of health and education. It may be that, because of its national significance, we do not want them to have authority with regard to uranium'. Perhaps we need to say that they are not to have any authority with regard to Aborigines, although it must be remembered, as I would point out to the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  that the Commonwealth now has power with regard to Aborigines. Maybe the Commonwealth should pass section SI legislation affecting the Aborigines of Australialegislating in a non-discriminatory way. The use of section 122 against a self-governing territory is in itself a denial of the conferral of that power. We should use section 122- other than in constitutional terms- in the most sparing fashion. It is my view that if we are to confer executive authority, section 35 of the Bill should be amended. I find it curious, in discussing the matter with people who have expertise in this area, that on the one hand they say to me, 'Oh no, it does not matter; you need not limit the legislative power; we can withdraw it by the exercise of section 122; section 5 1 legislation of the Commonwealth prevails over the whole of the Territory, because the Territory has been held by the High Court to be part of the Commonwealth'- and rightly so- 'and therefore its legislation, contradictory to our section 5 1 legislation, would be repugnant, and would fall to the ground on that argument'. I find it curious that they do not put in a limitation such as I have outlined. Yet when you ask them, Why do you put a limitation in when you confer executive authority?' they say, 'The list would have to be so long; it would have to exclude all those section 5 1 powers; it would take so much time to work out what powers we did not want them to have'. I thought we wanted them, subject to some exceptions, to have State-like powers, and I again most seriously urge the Minister to look at that provision in section 35. 1 will have more to say on that in the Committee stages. 
I turn now to deal with one other aspect, the position of the Administrator. The Administrator of the Northern Territory will be in a unique position. He will have some functions as an administator, as a delegate of the Governor-General of the Commonwealth, but his primary and new functions will be those of a governor. The capacity he had been given as a governor is the authority to do certain acts on the advice of his 
Northern Territory Ministers. So he assents to legislation, in respect of which the Territory will have been given executive authority, on the advice of those Ministers. No Minister here, no Governor-General in Canberra, can deny that right. We are conferring it in this Bill. But we are also giving him some prerogative rights. The honourable member for Capricornia made some remarks about those rights. I want to quote from a statement by the  Hon.  Don Dunstan, the Premier of South Australia, as follows: 
In the Westminster System it is quite essential as a protection to the populace that there be a Head of State independent of legislature, Judiciary and Executive. Without such an office one of the essential checks in the Constitution would be missing. 

 Mr Dunstan said also: 
The second function of the Head of State is to exercise the reserve powers of the Crown. These chiefly operate in times of constitutional crisis. 
The Administrator is to be given, I believe rightly, certain reserve powers. Even the Premier of South Australia acknowledges the importance and significance of the prerogative power of a Governor-General and, in the case of the newly self-governing Northern Territory, the significance of the prerogative power of the Administrator. 
-In the second reading speech I indicated two areas that caused me very great concern. The first related to the extent of the grant of legislative authority. I dealt with that at length in my speech. I hope that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  will give serious and careful consideration to the legal and constitutional implications of the doubts and reservations that I have about the method being adopted to confer upon the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory a legislative capacity which exceeds the capacity that is in the hands of the States and makes no reservation in regard to the general powers of the Commonwealth, other than our capacity to refuse to give the Assembly either executive authority or our capacity to use the reserve powers of the Governor-General to veto Assembly legislation. 
In this Committee debate I want to draw attention particularly to the implications of clause 35 of the Bill. Under clause 32 the Executive Council of the Legislative Assembly is conferred with executive power. That clause states that that executive power is to be limited by the Act. Clause 35 limits the power, because the clause states that the regulations may specify the matters in respect of which Ministers of the Territory are to have executive authority. As I mentioned earlier, I indicated that it was unusual in one instance to give to the Assembly plenary legislative power but then to give it limited executive authority. I believe that the executive authority conferred upon the Assembly should match its legislative power, except in clearly denned areas. Where we are seeking to confer self-government it means in a legislative and an executive capacity. Therefore we should grant that joint authority. Where for reasons of constitutional development or national policy issues we are of the opinion that the executive authority should be limited, we should in those circumstances limit it specifically. 
Therefore I would like to see the emphasis in clause 35 changed. I do not believe it changes the principle or the objectives that the legislation seeks to achieve, but it changes the method. I believe that section 35 should be altered to state that the regulations may specify the matters in respect of which the Ministers of the Territory are not to have legislative authority. That would make quite clear to the elected representatives and the people of the Northern Territory the area of reserve powers of the Commonwealth, rather than confront them with a difficult constitutional situation where in respect of every piece of legislation they have to ask whether the conferral of executive authority is wide enough to enable the Assembly to execute the legislation which it has passed. 
The Government members federal affairs committee has given this matter very serious consideration. It has appreciated very much the discussions it has had with the Minister. It would like further discussions with him on this very important issue. It believes that there are a number of members of this House and of another place who feel very strongly that the methods by which the executive authority is conferred should be in the manner I have outlined rather than that proposed in the Bill. Rather than move an amendment today I indicate that I will be seeking an opportunity to raise this matter for further discussion amongst my colleagues on this side of the chamber so that the members of the Government can understand the strength of the feeling of members who sit behind them and can take account of those views so that hopefully the legislation will then be amended in the manner that we would like when it is before the other place. 
I know from indications given to me that there are members in another place who have feelings equally as strong as those to which I referred in this place. Rather than putting forward this afternoon a proposal on a number of points in amendment form I want to indicate what we would have liked to have done. We proposed to adopt the procedure I have outlined which would be to amend paragraph (a) of clause 7 (2) and insert after the word 'matter' the word 'not'. That would be a consequential amendment to the clause. In clause 35, page 1 1, line 12, after the word 'are', the word 'not' could be inserted. 
I know that time is limited. So that honourable members can understand that there is feeling in this matter I propose to conclude my remarks rather than to take up the time that would be available to me in the hope that some honourable members who share my feelings and wish this matter to be discussed further amongst our colleagues are given the opportunity to speak. It is for that reason that I am sitting down after speaking for six minutes only notwithstanding that I could have spoken for 10 minutes. 
I understand that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is in the House, supports me. I also understand that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Penh  (Mr McLean)  support me in my plea that this matter should be considered and discussed further. I believe that there are other honourable members not in the chamber who would support me. I know that my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would give strong support if he were given the opportunity to follow me in this debate. I propose to sit down in the hope that time will be made available to the honourable member for the Northern Territory to support the remarks I have made. 
I indicated that I did not propose to move the amendments. I was speaking to the Bill. I have indicated a procedure that I propose to adopt. I hope that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will have an opportunity to say a few words. 
-I apologise for the misunderstanding earlier which was caused by my not hearing which Bill we were dealing with. I have an amendment to clause 4 which reads: 
Section 1 1 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: 
Subject to this section, this Pan applies to the carriage in an aircraft operated by a person other than the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth authority of a passenger, being a person to whom paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section ( 1 ) would apply if the references in those paragraphs to the Commonwealth were references to the Northern Territory and the references in those paragraphs to a Commonwealth authority were omitted. 
For the purposes of sub-section (4), the definition of 'passenger' in section 4 has effect as if the reference in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c) of that definition to the Commonwealth were a reference to the Northern Territory. 
For the purposes of the application of this Part in accordance with sub-section (4), the succeeding provisions of this Part have effect as if references in those provisions to the Commonwealth (other than references to a Commonwealth authority, or references to the Commonwealth in the expression "whether in the Commonwealth or elsewhere") were references to the Northern Territory.'. 
-I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-section: 
Sub-sections (4), (S) and (6) may be repealed by an enactment as defined by the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Act 1978, and in that event section 8 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1 90 1 shall apply to the repeal as if it had been effected by an Act. '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to enable the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to decide for itself the level of compensation and protection that it will provide for the public servants of the Northern Territory and until it makes such a decision the existing Commonwealth Act will prevail. It is unfortunate that we are imposing upon the Northern Territory utterly inadequate legislation. I appreciate that dme is limited. If the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  were in a position to indicate to me that the Government is prepared to look not only at this matter but also at the whole question of insurance protection and general compensation provisions relating to people who travel on aircraft, whether they be flying on schedules, charter or privately, that would comfort me and enable me not to proceed at length to explain why I think this amendment should be made and why this legislative capacity should not be withheld from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Minister apparently is not able to give that indication so I will proceed with my argument. I wanted to move a more extensive amendment but to save time I ask that it be incorporated in  Hansard  because it indicates the principles which I think the Legislative Assembly ought to be enabled to adopt if it so wishes. That is the purpose of the amendment before the Chair. I could not move the amendment in the more extensive form because it would not have come within the short title of the 
Bill. So I seek leave of the Committee to incorporate the more substantial amendment in  Hansard  so that honourable members can see what I am driving at. 
Leave granted. 

 The proposed amendment read as follows- 

Clause 4, after proposed sub-section (6) add the following sub-section: 
(a) A person to whom sub-section (4) applies shall not fly in an aircraft operated by a person other than the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth authority unless an approved insurance policy is in force in relation to such aircraft. 
An approved insurance policy in respect of paragraph (a) is one which- 
insures the carrier who operates the aircraft mentioned in the policy against ail liability incurred in respect of the death of, or bodily injury to, any person caused by or arising out of the use of the aircraft in any part of the Commonwealth, whether such use be with the authority of the carrier or not, for a minimum sum of $250,000 for each person; 
shall not be invalidated by reason of the fact that it contains any term, condition or warranty which avoids liability by reason of any negligence by the carrier or his agent of any breach by the carrier or his agent of any provisions of the Air Navigation Regulations relating to air-worthiness, conditions of flight, rules of the air, or air traffic control signals, and 
does not provide a ground for the insurer to avoid his obligations under the terms of the policy that the accident was due to the negligence of the ground crew or of the air traffic control staff at an aerodrome or to facilities or services at an aerodrome which did not comply with the requirements of the Air Navigation Regulations. '. 
That incorporation will enable me to summarise my case far more quickly. The protection given to people flying on charter or scheduled aircraft- it is limited to $45,000 whether for death or serious injury- is utterly inadequate and should be lifted to a figure of the order of $250,000 to make that protection comparable with that for people driving in motor cars. The fact that there is no protection for people flying on private aircraft is of special significance, especially for the Northern Territory where there are many private aircraft. A lot of people think when they get on a private aircraft and the pilot or owner tells them that he is insured that they are protected. In fact, the insurers offering that type of insurance are writing into their policies exemption clauses which enable them, on the very grounds that establish the claimants claim, to be exonerated from liability to protect the owner or pilot of the aircraft. 
It is interesting to note that Commonwealth statutory authorities require that if their employees fly on aircraft that are not scheduled or not flying under charter conditions there must be  an adequate comprehensive insurance policy. The Australian Broadcasting Commission, I am informed, requires such insurance protection. I understand that such insurance policies must contain the provisions of the insurance policy which covers motor cars and damage to third persons in a personal way. I think every aircraft flying in this country should be required to be covered by a comprehensive third party personal injury policy to ensure that those who fly on it and are injured as a result of the negligence of either the operator of the aircraft or those who administer the functions within airports are allowed to claim damages and be compensated without the risk that their claim may be against a man of straw, because very often the owner or pilot of the aircraft is a man of limited means. 
I would like to expand on my argument but instead I make three points: Firstly, the need to increase the limit from $45,000 to $250,000; secondly, the need for a requirement that all aircraft carry an insurance policy to protect passengers against a lack of financial resources on the part of the owner, the pilot or the person causing the negligence; and thirdly, that the quality of those policies be such that the insurer not be allowed to get out of his liability on the ground of breaches of aircraft flying regulations or the negligence of the pilot. 
In what way does the Minister for Industry and Commerce believe that the Budget will assist employment prospects in Australia's motor manufacturing industry? In particular, in what way could it affect employment opportunities in Adelaide? 
-We must face the fact that too many people are chasing too few jobs. Generally speaking, the more able, more articulate and more affluent two-income families are catching them. The unemployment we are now looking at is quantitatively and qualitatively different from the unemployment we have experienced in the past. Because of this it is also important that the ABS produce regular monthly statistics as to the effect of unemployment on families and households. The experience of other industrialised countries points to unemployment being a permanent feature of the economic landscape. The problem of the 1980s is going to be sharing the work around. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I enter this debate to support the Budget and the economic strategy contained within it. As a result of it, higher levels of economic activity will be achieved and more job opportunities will be created. In his speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  acknowledged that the persistence of high unemployment was one of the many problems that remain. But high unemployment will continue to be a problem even after higher levels of economic activity have been achieved and a great number of job opportunities have been created as a result. 
Over the past 30 years fundamental changes have occurred in the size and composition of the labour force in Australia. Over that period there has been a gradual increase in the proportion of the population in jobs, or looking for jobs. There are now more two-income households than there are single-income ones. Social attitudes to work have changed. A marked result of this has been the flow of married women into the work force. 
For a time the impact of this employment did not significantly affect the measured rate of unemployment. This was not only because the demand for labour was growing but also because an increasing number of people were staying at school for longer and a rising proportion were going on to universities and colleges of advanced education. It was also due to the fact that few of these women are counted as members of the work force until they have a job. While merely on the lookout for work they are not classified as being unemployed. Due to excessive wage rates and the availability of modern technology, the demand for labour is now falling. Machine and computer power is replacing man and woman power. At the same time, educational institutions have ceased absorbing an increasing proportion of our young people. 
According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the rate of unemployment in Australia in June this year was 6. 1 per cent. That percentage tells part of the story, but only part. The preoccupation of politicians, public servants, the media and statisticians with these unemployment figures has obscured two fundamental questions: 
Firstly, the extent to which people are moving in and out of the work force in response to changing social and economic conditions; and secondly, the declining usefulness of the tests currently being used to determine whether a person is in the work force or not. 
Largely as a result of the size of the flow of married women into the work force, the supply of labour during the last 5 years has been growing faster than the demand for labour. Between May 1977 and May 1978 the supply of labour as defined by the ABS increased by 16,000, whereas the demand for labour fell by 25,500, with a resulting increase of 41,500 in the number of unemployed. This increase would have been greater but for the fact that the number of persons classified as not in the labour force rose by a massive and disproportionately high 187,500. In those sections of Budget Paper No. 2 dealing with the labour market, the Treasury points out that a decline in the rate at which those aged 1 5 years and over took part in the work force during 1977-78 cushioned the effects of total employment. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the relevant portions of that statement. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Labour  Market 
. over the past three years growth in product has not been accompanied by sustained expansion in employment. Rather, most of it has been reflected in increasing product per worker; over the whole period, employment has increased at an annual rate of about 1 percent. 
The full-year figures for 1 977-78 in Table 3 indicate that, despite a slight apparent fall in the labour force participation rate, the increase in the labour force outran growth in the number of employed persons, which showed little change from 1976-77, and unemployment rose substantially. 
Tracking' of labour market trends within 1977-78 was even more difficult than in other recent years. In addition to the problems with seasonal adjustment of unemployment statistics (which led the Statistician, from November 1977, to suspend publication of adjusted unemployment estimates based on the labour force survey), there were substantial changes in the design of the labour force survey, and in the December quarter the Victorian power dispute had marked effects on some series. 

<graphic href="110131197808240_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

New estimation benchmarks derived from the 1976 population census were introduced into the labour force survey during 1 977-78; there was also a new sample and questionnaire and, with the changeover to a monthly survey from February 1 978, a different timing basis. While attempts have been made to iron out resulting irregularities and inconsistencies with earlier survey estimates, discontinuity of surveybased series during 1977-78 may remain. This possibility is underlined by the inexplicable movements in some of the key series in November and February- the months in which the above-mentioned changes were effected. Thus, while the direction of trends during 1977-78 seems clear enough, not much weight should be accorded the precise magnitudes of estimated movements. 
The recorded figures point to a decline in the participation rate during 1977-78. This cushioned the effects on total unemployment of the slight decline in employment during the course of the year; none the less, unemployment in the second half was still substantially higher than twelve months earlier. In the closing months of the year unemployment appeared to stabilise; movements in the CES series were similar to the seasonal pattern, and were consistent with the ABS monthly labour force survey. 
The fall in the participation rate in the past two years represents the first sustained decline since 1971-72. On earlier occasions declines in the participation rate have occurred more or less concurrently with the down-turn in economic activity and rising unemployment; on this occasion the apparent fall has appeared well after the onset of high unemployment in 1974. One possible explanation for at least part of this phenomenon is the attraction which much higher real wages (and, perhaps, much higher real unemployment benefits) may for a time have had in holding up participation rates and thereby nullifying the normal 'discouraged worker' effect of a weak labour market. Another factor may have been the different composition of unemployment in this recession; increased job opportunities for women led to a rise in female participation rates while the greater relative decline in the manufacturing sector, in particular, led to a rise in the level of male unemployed, the latter being less likely to leave the labour force. 
Several other important aspects of labour market experience in 1977-78 deserve mention. First, part-time employment continued to grow and the survey-based estimate of unemployment among the part-time labour force actually declined over the course of the year. Secondly, female employment was again stronger than male employment. Thirdly, among industry groupings, manufacturing and community services recorded the major changes over the year, the former declining and the latter increasing. Fourthly, government employment continued to rise (but showed some flattening in the second half), while private employment continued to fall. Finally, in marked contrast to earlier years, junior unemployment rates rose by relatively less than adult rates. The Special Youth Employment Training Program would seem to have been an important factor in this development, in effect resulting in some substitution of youth employment for employment of other members of the work force. 
Labour Market 
With no immediate end in sight to the continuing cost disincentive to the demand for labour, employment gains in 1978-79 are likely to be moderate. On the evidence of the past few years, growth in product per unit of non-farm employment over the course of 1978-79 could be expected to be at least 2 per cent. As a result of a steady shift towards selfemployment and contract labour- much of it parttimetotal wage and salary earner employment appears to have shown little growth over the past three years. After allowance for some slowing in the compositional drift in 1978-79, wage and salary earner employment might increase slightly over the course of the year. 
The projected growth in total non-farm employment is lower than the underlying trend rate of growth in the supply of labour. With the present rates of natural population growth and the likely net intake of migrants, the labour force could be expected to grow by at least 1  Vi  per cent and possibly as much as 2 percent over the course of 1978-79. 
The precise outcome depends on the labour force participation rate. As discussed in Part I, while there is some doubt as to the reliability of recent recorded movements in the labour force data, there has been a slight underlying fall in the participation rate over recent times. If that trend were to continue, growth in the labour force would be toward the lower end of the range mentioned above, in which case recorded unemployment would show little change in underlying terms over the course of the year. An unchanged participation rate or re-emergence of an upward trend in the rate would be accompanied by a further rise in unemployment. 
A situation of persistent under-utilisation of available labour resources is, on mounting evidence, a seemingly inescapable consequence if the cost of labour, and particularly some categories thereof, continues to be excessive (see Part II). Only with a break-through by way of a reduction of the rate of money wage increases could a significantly brighter outlook for unemployment in 1 978-79 be expected. 
-In it the Treasury also acknowledges that there has been a sustained decline in the participation rate and points out that, contrary to past experience, the decline occurred well after the onset of high unemployment in 1974. It claims that the normal discouraged worker effect of a weak labour market was nullified by the attraction of higher real wages and higher unemployment benefits, but only passing reference is made to the significant change which has occurred and is still occurring in the size and composition of what might be described as the potential work force. I hope that next year we will find in this Treasury paper an analysis of the implications of these changes. This year's statement fails to analyse correctly the impact of female employment. It also appears to express regret that, unlike women, men do not leave the labour force when they lose their jobs. 
In looking to the year ahead the Treasury estimates that the labour force will grow by  Vi  per cent to 2 per cent, but it goes on to say that the precise outcome will depend on the participation rate. It concludes: 
An unchanged participation rate or re-emergence of an upward trend in the rate would be accompanied by a further rise in unemployment. 
It appears to assume that unemployment can be brought down not only by placing the unemployed in jobs but also by moving them out of the work force as defined by the ABS. The unemployment problem now facing us will not be solved quickly. It certainly will not be overcome by hiding those who wants jobs in the non work force. The number looking for work is far greater than the estimate made by the ABS. As a consequence, the increase in the demand for labour will not result in an accompanying reduction in the number now classified as unemployed. A large proportion of any increase in the demand for labour will be satisfied by people who are not considered by the ABS as unemployed because they are not actively looking for work. They are not included in other estimates of the unemployed as they do not qualify for unemployment benefits and many who are looking for jobs just do not register with the CES. We let them drop out of sight. They are the discouraged workers and the hidden unemployed. 
Until we face the fact that the number of people looking for work is probably double the number included in the unemployment statistics, we will fail to appreciate the nature of the problem confronting us. If the work force were redefined to include all who would like a job we would find that for every seven people in a job there is another who would like one. 
The Australian people must be given the true facts about the extent and nature of the problem. They are now denied them because the methods used to measure the extent of unemployment are outmoded and unsuited to present conditions. The formulae used to determine the extent of unemployment were devised on the assumption that the single-income family household was the norm. They were also devised at a time of economic growth, full employment and relatively stable patterns of work force participation. 
What, then, are these methods used to measure unemployment? The number in receipt of unemployment benefits is not, for a number of reasons, regarded as an adequate measure. Nor is the true picture given by the number of persons who register with the CES, although until recently we relied upon these figures. We now give most weight to the figures derived by the ABS from what is now a monthly survey of the labour force. According to the Norgard report, these figures provide more reliable information about  the labour market. I do not believe that this is so. It is my opinion that the estimates made from these surveys as to the number of people who are unemployed are as unreliable as the estimates made from the numbers of people who register with the CES for employment and from the numbers who receive unemployment benefits. 
The ABS, in its labour force statistics, divides the population into three categories: Those not in the labour force; those who are employed; and those it describes as unemployed. As a result of the May survey this year, the Bureau estimated that of the civilian population of 10.4 million ( 100 per cent) aged 15 years and over, 4 million (39 per cent) were not in the labour force, 6 million (57 per cent) were employed and 400,000, or 4 per cent, were unemployed. It is the employed and the unemployed who make up the work force. By expressing this total as a percentage of 10.4 million it arrives at a work force participation rate. By expressing the number unemployed as a percentage of the work force it arrives at the rate of unemployment. The precision and value of these estimates depends upon the appropriateness of the dividing line between the three categories. The inadequacy of the Bureau's figures stems from its inability to establish clear-cut and sensible boundaries between them. The definitions used are not appropriate to present circumstances and it is time that the ABS stopped blindly defending their continued use. 
In a recent speech, the Australian Statistician,  Mr Cameron,  discussed the extent and incidence of unemployment. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard what he had to say. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

In his speech  Mr Cameron  claimed that the aim of the Bureau was 'to collect information to which those engaged in close analysis of the labour market attach most significance'.  Mr Cameron  said that we should let him know when we wanted more details and more frequent collection of information. There is,  Mr Cameron,  I believe, an urgent need for both more information and more frequent information about the labour force. It is also urgent that the underlying concepts and definitions be reviewed.  Mr Cameron  acknowledged that 'a statistical measure cannot be better than the underlying concepts and definitions on which it is based'. Of course, the concepts used should depend as little as possible on personal opinion or subjective attitudes. But contrary to its claims, the definition of an unemployed person currently being used by the ABS does involve a subjective judgment as to what constitutes a sufficient search for work. The Bureau counts as unemployed only those who, not being employed in the week of a survey, have 'actively looked' for work in the four preceding weeks. What is the difference between looking and actively looking? I am sure that those who sit for driving tests actively look in the rear vision mirror; experienced drivers just look. Those who want unemployment benefits actively look for work otherwise they fail to qualify. But those not eligible for other reasons just look for it. Today the number of people just looking is greater than those who are actively looking. 
It was misleading of  Mr Cameron  to suggest that those that the ABS classified as unemployed could be simply described as those looking for a job when the Bureau counts only those who are actively looking. It is equally wrong of the Treasury, in the August 1978 Roundup of Economic Statistics to include in its labour force survey estimates under the heading of people looking for work only those who were actively looking. It is also misleading of  Mr Cameron  to claim that the definition being used by the Bureau conforms very closely to that recommended by the International Labour Organisation. The Bureau definition makes classification of a person as unemployed depend primarily on the overt act of having looked for a job. By contrast, the ILO definition requires only that a person available for work be seeking it. The ILO does not narrow its definition by requiring active search. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the Bureau's definition of unemployed persons and the ILO definition of unemployment. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Source: A.B.S. Bulletin No. 6202 
The Labour Force ' 
Explanatory Notes 

 Unemployed persons are those aged 1 5 years and over who were not employed during the survey week, and 
had actively looked for full-time or part-time work at any time in the four weeks up to the end of the survey week and: 
were available for work in the survey week, or would have been available except for temporary illness (i.e. lasting for less than four weeks to the end of the survey week); or 
were waiting to start a new job within four weeks from the end of the survey week and would have started in the survey week if the job had been available then; or 
were waiting to be called back to a full-time or parttime job from which they had been stood down without pay for less than four weeks up to the end of the survey week (including the whole of the survey week) for reasons other than bad weather or plant breakdown. 

 Unemployed persons looking for first job are those who have never worked for two weeks or more in a full-time job. 
The  unemployment rate  for any group is the number unemployed expressed as a percentage of the labour force (i.e. plus unemployed ) in the same group. 
ILO recommendation which was set out at the 8th International Conference of Labour Statistics in 1 954. 
Definition of unemployment 
Persons in unemployment consist of persons above a specified age, on the specified day or for a specified week, were in the following categories: 
Workers available for employment whose contract for employment had been terminated or temporarily suspended and who were without a job and seeking work for pay or profit. 
Persons who were available for work (except for minor illness) during the specified period and were seeking work for pay or profit, who were never previously employed or whose most recent status was other than that of employee (i.e. former employers et cetera), or who had been in retirement. 
Persons without a job and are currently available for work who had made arrangements to start a new job at a date subsequent to the specified period. 
Persons on temporary or indefinite lay off without pay. 
The following categories of persons are not considered to be unemployed. 
Persons intending to establish their own business or farm, but who have not yet arranged to do so, but were not seeking work for pay or profit. 
Former unpaid family workers not at work and not seeking work for pay or profit. 
-In 1975, and again in 1977, the ABS conducted a survey of those not in the labour force- as defined by it. It is urgent that these surveys be conducted monthly along with the labour force survey and the survey of job vacancies. Only in this way will we in this Parliament obtain the information that we need. By failing to account for those who would like a job, the work force in Australia today is understated by 4.5 per cent of the civilian population aged 15 years and over. The proportion of that population looking for work is nearer 8 per cent than the 4 per cent now estimated as unemployed under current definitions. 
However it was encouraging to hear from  Mr Cameron  that the ABS does acknowledge the importance of providing more information about the cross-flows between the categories employed, unemployed, and not in the work force. The need for this data too is urgent. So also is a review of the categories of themselves. The last survey of those not in the work force, was conducted as long ago as May 1977. It revealed that there are large numbers of people who would like a job, but who are not now regarded as being in the unemployed component of the work force. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  an exercise, based on this survey, which shows that in May this year there were 856,000 who would have liked a job, that is 12.5 per cent of what could be described as the potential labour force. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I enter this debate because I want to bring to the attention of the House the serious situation confronting the economy in South Australia. If the seriousness of the problem is not recognised here in the national Parliament the disaster that will befall South Australia and metropolitan Adelaide will be of a magnitude that at the present time is not fully understood. South Australia's industrial base is being threatened, and there are a number of causes for this threat and for the weakening of the South Australian economy. First, therefore, we must identify the existence of the problem. We must recognise the fact that behind a general sluggishness in the economy is a very serious and special problem in the South Australian economy. We must look then for the causes of that problem, and today I want to identify three of those causes. The first is the disastrous policies of the State Labor Government in South Australia. Secondly, there is the increasing use of State preferences; and thirdly, the need in the development of national policies for the restructuring of Australia's manufacturing industry to recognise the significance of important regions within Australia. 
On Tuesday this week a feature article appeared in the  Australian  newspaper entitled Dunstan Fights to Save a Dream'. It is a bad dream. It is a dream which is destroying South Australia's prosperity. For too long the people of South Australia, and indeed the people of Australia, have been in that dream and have failed to understand what is happening to the prosperity of a once happy, successful, industrious community. For too long the South Australian people have been mesmerised by Dunstan 's silver tongue. For too long they have lived in an unreal dream world. But the euphoric phase is over. The period of frustration has arrived. Unless South Australians wake up now the dream will turn into a nightmare from which the State of South Australia will explode in time into the world of reality. 
Peter Ward, who wrote the article in the  Australian,  said that the Dunstan Government is showing hypersensitivity to criticism about the overall economic performance in that State and about letting the facts of the State's position get out. The latter comment is certainly true. Great effort is used by the South Australian Labor Government to hide the facts from the South Australian people, and indeed to hide them from the Australian people. South Australian Labor leaders refuse to admit that frustration, pessimism, and even dispair permeate business in the State. They attempt to deceive the public by telling them that there is no justification for the gloomy forebodings of those who live in the world of reality. The Premier himself goes to great lengths, and in recent times it is alleged that he censored a speech prepared by the head of the State Department of Economic Development because the head of that Department wanted to place before the South Australian people the  facts  about the economic situation in that State. The newspaper writer Max Harris recently said: 'The carnival is over. The days of wine tastings and poetry readings are over.' In the words of Christopher Jay in another newspaper: 'The Spartans are at Adelaide's walls.' 
We all know that Australia has been passing through a period of economic difficulty, but the problems confronting South Australia are far more serious. The State's share of national unemployment rose to 10.3 per cent at the end of July 1978 from a relatively low 6.6 per cent in June 1976. Those shares compare with a South Australian share of the civilian work force of 9.3 per cent. There are other indicators which point to the same trend. Registration of new cars in Australia over the last 12 months fell by 1.1 per cent. In South Australia they fell by 1 1 per cent. Retail sales in Australia rose over the past 12 months by 10.6 per cent and in South Australia by only 6.5 per cent. Approvals for new dwellings throughout Australia in the quarter ended June 1978 fell by 3.6 per cent when compared with the quarter ended June 1977. In South Australia approvals fell by a disastrous 29.2 per cent. Commencements of new dwellings throughout Australia in the same period fell by 9.5 per cent and in South Australia they fell by 2 1 per cent. Unemployment in South Australia in July 1978 rose over July 1977 by 41.1 per cent compared with a national average rise of 16.6 per cent. 
In his recent Budget the State Premier sought to suggest that the causes were all external. He failed to identify in his Budget Speech, which was delivered in the State Parliament earlier this week, the fact that many of the difficulties facing the South Australian economy and causing all the indicators in that State to be worse than those on the national average were promoted by the policies that he and his colleagues in government are putting into practice. The cost advantages that enabled manufacturers to compete with those in other States have now largely disappeared. Industry in South Australia has been called upon to bear an ever-increasing level of State taxes and charges to finance an oversized, under-utilised and badly organised Public Service and its fearfully expensive superannuation scheme. The cost advantages previously available to South Australia have disappeared and the State Government appears to fail to understand the importance of those cost advantages if South Australia is to be a major exporter of manufactured products to the big markets of the eastern States. I could go on about the policies of the South Australian Government but I have said enough to indicate that it is time South Australians realised that their economic difficulties spring from the policies of the State Labor Government. They should look to the Government to introduce policies that will create a climate in which business can once again prosper instead of causing businessmen and entrepreneurs to think about moving their enterprises to other States and other places. 
It is true, and there is evidence throughout South Australia- 
It is not a matter of knocking South Australia, it is a matter of placing before the South Australian people the facts about a disastrous State Labor Government which is destroying the prosperity and future of the South Australian people. I turn now to the second point I raised; that is, my concern about the increasing use of State preferences. In a recent edition of the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  an article indicated that the Victorian Government proposed to give preference in its purchases to goods manufactured in that State. That practice is adopted by many States. It is a practice that is causing a process of economic secession within Australia. It is fragmenting the Australian common market. The opportunities for industries to effectively restructure are being destroyed because State governments are causing a break-up of the Australian common market. When the Constitution was drawn up a guarantee was written into it that trade between the States would be absolutely free. The State governments are destroying that freedom of trade by granting preferences to goods produced within their own States so that other States are disadvantaged. It is time that the Commonwealth Government examined this question as it develops policies for the rational, national restructuring of Australian industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Have the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, General Motors-Holden's Ltd and his Department argued that Australia would be better off without Chrysler Australia Ltd? Have the two companies told the Government that they could employ most of Chrysler's staff and tradesmen? How many would be required  to leave  Adelaide to obtain employment with these Melbourne based companies? What would be the impact on the rest of Chrysler 's workers and importantly on the extent of employment opportunities in Adelaide? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Government will do everything possible to prevent GMH from withdrawing from Adelaide and Chrysler from closing? 
-I rise to take part in this Committee discussion of the estimates of the Department of Social Security. In doing so I draw to the attention of the Committee a concern that I have expressed in recent times about the need for governments in this country to have a family policy- a policy that is designed to enable the families of the nation to achieve the objectives that they would like to achieve. 
-Someone asks, 'What are they?' That is the very point of my plea. We should develop a family policy so that at least in an explicit way government actions strengthen the role that the community wants the family to perform rather than, by design or inadvertence, weaken its capacity to fulfil the role. I believe that as an adjunct to the development of a policy for the Australian family we should institute the preparation of impact statements by government departments so that when they make policy decisions they are required to indicate the way in which they believe those decisions would affect families. All too often we look at the effect of policies and programs on the community at large and on the individual but we often forget that they have an effect upon that small group with whom the great majority of Australians relate most; that is, their family. I am not seeking in this debate tonight to define the very wide range of differing family configurations that might exist within the community. If one looks at the statistics one will see that the great majority of them happen to be families in which there are two parents with dependent children. 
The honourable member should have listened to my speech during the Budget debate in which I expressed my concern about unemployment. Of course we should be looking into the question of the impact and effect of unemployment on different families. Some families in Australia today have two incomes whereas others have no incomes because none of the potential members of the work force can get jobs. We may well have to look into that question to ensure that work opportunities are adequately and equitably shared among Australian families- to ensure that each family has a fair opportunity to develop for itself and for its children the opportunities that we would all like them to have. One of the great innovations of the Government was the family allowance. If there had been a family impact statement we may not have been faced with a debate about the effect of certain proposals, which have now been withdrawn, in relation to the so-called 'newsboy'. 
I believe that the payment of family allowances should be continued on a universal basis. If it is not, we place a family with dependent children in a disadvantaged position in comparison with a family that has the same income but no dependent children. As the economy revives the purchasing power of these family allowances should be examined so that they can be maintained. In time we will need to give consideration to increasing the family allowance paid in respect of the first child and in respect of children under the age of six. Many people tend to think that the first child is the least expensive child. We pay the lowest rates of family allowance in respect of the first child. I draw the attention of the Committee to the supplementary report of the National Population Inquiry which was tabled a few months ago. I draw the Committee's attention to a number of comments in that report. The report stated:  . . . the curtailment of expenditure with the addition of a child is striking. The first point to be noted - 
This appears in paragraph 5.25-  is the precarious financial position of the one adult household with dependent children. 
I should say that under our social security system we do make special provisions for families where there are children with a single parent. They do not just receive the family allowance. Those parents- particularly the mothers- are entitled to one form of pension or another. In addition to the basic pension payable to the mother allowances are payable in respect of her children. The Borrie report went on to say:  . . . secondly, the addition of a child to a two adult household clearly means a fall in average income- a fall that must be all the more traumatic because of the high expenditure patterns of the two adult households before the event of children. 
It said in paragraph 5.27:  . . . the household finds itself 'flush with money' prior to the start of child bearing. In the many cases income losses and higher expenditure associated with the onset of child bearing are eased again when the children come to school age and the mother can take up employment on a part or full time basis. 
The report went on to say:  . . . the patterns outlined above do seem to support the case for transfer payments to serve the needs of households during the vital years of family formation. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who in this House represents the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the need for the Government to look at the total family allowance program and the need as circumstances permit to ask the question whether when we increase those benefits to maintain their real value we should not at the same time make a substantial increase in real value of the payments made in respect of the first child particularly while that first child is in the pre-school age group. 
I bring one other point to the attention of the Committee during this debate. The Henderson Royal Commission on Poverty had a number of words to say about the means test. At that time the test included an assessment of capital as well as an assessment of income. Professor Henderson said: 
However nowadays this - 
He was referring to the inclusion in the means test of an assessment of capital-  . . . this practice merely stands in the way of the rational integration of the pension means test with other incometested benefits and with the income tax. Accordingly it should cease. 
The Government has taken one step implicit in that statement. It has abolished the means test on capital and it has introduced an income test. But so far it has failed to move in the direction of integrating the means test with the taxation system. We have had from the invalid pensioners in recent days an identification of the sorts of problems to which Professor Henderson referred when he criticised the use by governments of what he described as cumulative income tests. He had this to say: 
If a family is eligible for a number of separate payments, each of which tapers away as private income increases, the total reduction in the various benefits can often rise till it nearly wipes out the increase in private income. 
The retention rates all too often are far too low. Today the retention rates of many pensioners are lower than the retention rates after tax of the highest income earners in the land. I urge the Government, in its assessment and reexamination of the social welfare system, to get a co-ordinated plan to ensure that retention rates for people on low incomes are increased, that the tax system and the social security system are harmonised, that one department is used to administer the test to be applied, and that the heavy burden placed on low income earners is removed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I thank the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  for the manner in which he accepted the proposal for the amendment and for bringing it into the House. I must admit, as did the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  that I find some difficulty in following the way in which parliamentary counsel has chosen to include the same words as I suggested but in a slightly different place in the sub-clause. I think it is very important to note that when legislation comes before this Parliament and is then presented before Legislation Committees it is not good enough for those persons who are proposing the legislation to write, in response to a question concerning the meaning of the proposed legislation, that one must wait until after the Parliament has passed the legislation before he can be told whether or not a particular item falls within a definition. This is the sort of letter that I received in relation to my inquiry in respect of this Bill. 
It is this Parliament that must lay down the terms and conditions under which benefits or export expansion grants, as is the case here, should be made available. It is not satisfactory for Ministers and their advisers to write and say: We are terribly sorry. We think the benefit will be included and will be available but you must wait until the legislation has been passed. We cannot really comment upon the matter until Parliament has passed the legislation. ' Here was a member of Parliament seeking information as to what that legislation would mean if he voted for it. Parliamentary counsel and government advisers should not put before this House legislation, the meaning and effect of which they cannot explain to members of this House. The legislation should be taken back to the draftsmen before it is introduced. The Parliament and parliamentary committees should not be called upon to pass legislation in respect of which there are admitted grey areas. If it is clear that the Government intends that something should be included, it should be so specified. I am very gratified to think that the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who is also the Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  was able to see that point and to understand that we in this House who are acting as legislators want to know what we are legislating about. The purpose of the legislation committees should be to do just what has been achieved in relation to the amendment to which I am speaking. I am, therefore, pleased in detail that the particular amendment in which I had an interest has been accepted; but I am also pleased in principle that the Government has recognised the value of legislation committees as a means whereby grey areas can be removed from legislation and the intent of the Government made clear to the legislators. The community for whom we are legislating will then have clear and definite laws under which people can operate, make their business transactions and anticipate the results without having to go to some tribunal to determine whether on vague facts and contradictory definitions their particular applications for grants fall within the legislation or outside it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 3, as amended, agreed to. 
-Will the Minister for Transport investigate the possibility of international flights calling at Adelaide so that South Australians can travel overseas from their home State at fares which are no greater than those paid by Victorians, New South Welshmen, Western Australians and Queenslanders? If these arrangements cannot be made, can the domestic airfare from Adelaide to Perth be reduced so that the airfare to Europe from Adelaide via Perth will not cost any more than a Melbourne-Perth-Europe fare on an international flight? 
-Very briefly, I put the record right by saying that I did not miss the point made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  I indicated my concern at the outcome of the Industries Assistance Commission reports and indicated also that I hoped that, in the light of the arguments placed before the IAC, the Government would be given objective, sound advice upon which it could base any changes in the relative arrangements as between competing spirits. 
Question put- 
That sub-items proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hurford's amendment)  stand part of the Schedule. 
-I rise to take part in this debate very briefly. We have heard from the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  the expression of a view that that pan of the legislation which deals with the brandy excise will not be supported by them. I rise as a member representing an area that has wine grapes in it. I rise also representing a State that has within it a significant region which is dependent upon grape growing. We have heard from the honourable member for Wakefield that we should view the grape growing industry as a single industry, whether its product is used for wine, for dried fruits or for brandy. Yet we have heard from him, from the Opposition and from the honourable member for Mallee the view that we can isolate that segment of the industry which relates to brandy, examine all the debits and not look at the other aspect of the industry and examine the credits that arise from this legislation. I am concerned that the Government should be given the opportunity to make a close examination of the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on grape growing and potable spirits. It may well be that in the light of that expert advice the Government will see fit at the appropriate time to introduce a differential. 
In this Budget excises were raised and there was a uniform lift in the excise on potable spirits. There was a lift in the excise on beer. There was no tax imposed on wine, and let that position continue into the future. Those who now challenge the Budget by suggesting that they will vote against a piece of legislation flowing from the Budget- a revenue raising measure that was supported by members on this side of the House when they voted for the Budget- now say that they can take a small piece of it and say that they do not like it and therefore will vote against it. Any who vote against that piece of legislation invite future governments to consider the imposition upon the grape growing industry of a wine tax. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Kingston. It would be disastrous, and because it would be disastrous I am supporting the Government's legislation. I believe that any move that might invite a government to put a tax on wine would do far more damage to South Australia, to Adelaide and to the Riverland than the excise on brandy, particularly in circumstances where the Government has said that at the right time it will look at the recommendations of the IAC. Pressure is being put on the Government by the brewers. They ask why they should be adversely affected by an increase in the excise on beer, which is shifting people's purchasing habits in favour of wine. If that pressure is maintained and if those who would support the wine industry weaken in their support by voting against this legislation on the basis of protecting but a small section of the industry, then those honourable members and the Opposition and the State Government in South Australia will have it upon their shoulders if any future government introduces a tax on wine. 
In present circumstances, there is evidence to suggest that wine sales have increased by 25 per cent. Neither the honourable member for Wakefield nor the honourable member for Mallee gave any credit for the substantially increased sales of wine grapes that will result from that. As a South Australian, and one concerned about an industry that is very significant to South Australia, I will vote in support of the Government's legislation because I believe that that is the best and surest way to indicate the view that a government should not entertain the idea of spreading the tax burden to raise the same amount of revenue by imposing an excise on wine. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I enter this debate briefly to raise two points. Firstly, I remind the House that, like the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I moved an amendment to the Family Law Bill when it was before the House. The point that I wanted to emphasise in the amendment was that families in which breakdowns occur and divorce follows fall into two categories- those which have no children and those which have children. In those cases where there are children, 12 months separation provides a presumption to the court of the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. No one seems to take account of the fact that the children may have an interest in whether or not the court should proceed to accept the irretrievability of the breakdown. My amendment sought to place the onus on the court to be satisfied of the irretrievability  of the breakdown where dependent children were involved. I hope that the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act will consider this matter. I did not contend by the amendment that questions of fault should arise. I contend that there needed to be some party, some advocate or some concerned person with responsibility for the interests of the children. In so many cases before the family law courts, because the parties to the marriage- the husband and the wife- are concerned about their own emotional conflicts, their property disputes and their personal interests in custody or access to children, not enough emphasis is placed upon the interests of the children in having a proper relationship with both their parents. Therefore I hope that the Committee, in its examination, will deeply study the interests of children. 
The second point I raise and which I hope the Committee will consider is the title of the Family Law Act. I do not believe it should be called by that name. The title creates the impression that the only concern of governments for families occurs where breakdown has occurred or is occurring. The courts then deal with the breakdown situations that are irretrievable. In some circumstances they try to find ways and means of identifying the fact that the breakdown situation is not irretrievable. But the courts are often trying to cure a situation where cure, other than the granting of a divorce, is impossible. The future of the children is then resolved in the best way possible in the difficult circumstances. 
Governments need to have a concern for families from their formation. Governments need to have a concern for families to ensure that economic or emotional stresses and strains are not placed on them so that the families can cope with the complex society within which we live. The unit with which all of us associate the most is the household unit or, for 95 per cent of the population, the family unit. It is the family to which the majority of individuals turn in time of need. They turn to the family for emotional support. They turn to the family in time of sickness. They turn to members of the family in times when they need someone who is more than a friend. So, if the future of the nation is to be guaranteed and assured we want to make certain that as many Australians as possible have strong family ties and emotional support which will enable them to pass through life in a meaningful, happy and satisfying way. If governments by their policies put stresses and strains on the household unit and on the family they will create more work for what we today call the Family Law Court. 
I come back to the second point I made. I do not believe the court should be called the Family Law Court. That name implies that society as a whole is concerned only with the well being of the family when it has reached a breaking point. Therefore I ask the Committee to look at this question of the name of the legislation that governs the court that deals with marriages that have broken down. I urge the Government- I will not have time to pursue the point this evening- to develop a full and comprehensive family policy which concentrates on preventing families from breaking down rather than having to cure the circumstances that have brought about a breakdown and then to provide for the outcome of that breakdown through a heavy burden on the rest of the community by way of economic and other support to children of broken homes. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that consultants commissioned on the management of the Royal Adelaide Hospital found that salary savings of at least $5m per annum could be achieved without loss of service? Did the Public Accounts Committee of the South Australian Parliament find that no action had been taken to implement the recommendation of the consultants? In the light of the report of the Public Accounts Committee of that Parliament on the Royal Adelaide Hospital and other hospital and health matters, what steps are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to protect the revenue of the Commonwealth against unwarranted expenditure being incurred under the hospitals' cost sharing arrangements? 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the extent to which States are protecting their industries by the use of de facto tariff and customs barriers under the guise of State preferences? Does he believe it to be in the national interest for the common market established in Australia at Federation to be Balkanised in this way? In the light of the recommendations of the Crawford committee that government policy should actively accelerate the process of structural change in manufacturing industry, will the Minister convene a meeting of relevant State Ministers to discuss the removal of State preferences? If not, will moves to achieve structural change involve the maintenance and establishment of all major industries in each State of the Commonwealth? 
I support the Bills now before the House. I am very pleased to note that  Mr Bill  Blucher, the  Chairman  of the Council of Norfolk Island, and Councillor Geoff Bennett are at present sitting in the Speaker's Gallery. We acknowledged their presence in this chamber when they visited Canberra last week to have discussions on the final form of the legislation. It is pleasing that they have been able either to stay over or to return to be present during this debate. Can I also say how pleasing it is to see the Administrator of the island in the Gallery. 
This is an important piece of legislation so far as this Parliament is concerned. It is particularly important so far as Norfolk Island is concerned. Over the last 12 to 18 months this Parliament has been involved in some unique constitutional development so far as parts ofthe Commonwealth of Australia that come under the designation of Territory' are concerned. Last year we debated in this House legislation to give self-government to the Northern Territory and to move the Territory towards eventual statehood. I took part in that debate. I had a number of things to say about the legislation that was then before the House. Whilst I supported the general content of the legislation there were some areas about which I was concerned. I am very pleased to see that a number of matters raised by me and other members of the Government Members' Federal Affairs Committee during the debate on selfgovernment for the Northern Territory have been taken into account in the drafting of this legislation which proposes to effect a degree of self-government to Norfolk Island. 
There has been a lot of discussion here today about the whole question of the extent to which the Commonwealth is moving Norfolk Island to self-government. Perhaps the concern in the minds of some arises from the long history of administration of that island. It is a history which of necessity puts into the minds of those who want to see a greater degree of responsibility placed in the hands of the island people a doubt, a concern and almost a degree of cynicism about the commitments and promises made by governments here in Canberra and by this Parliament. The same doubts were raised when the Northern Territory was being granted self-government. I think it is interesting to note that since gaining self-government the people of the Northern Territory have got on with the job, demonstrated their willingness to take up the challenge of governing themselves, demonstrated a capacity to discharge the responsibility and given this Parliament and the Government here in Canberra the confidence that we should proceed along that road to a more complete degree of self-government. I have had the privilege of listening to some ofthe discussions that have taken place in the Norfolk Island Council and of talking to members of that Council and the people of the island. I am sure that they will rise to the challenge that this Parliament places before them, that they will respond to the opportunities that they have been seeking for so long and that any doubts that they might have now or might have had over recent weeks or months will soon be allayed by the realisation that they truly will have responsibility in a significant range of areas to manage their own affairs. If they discharge their responsibilities, as I am sure they will, effectively, sensitively and in response to the wishes of the people they represent, this Parliament and governments here in Canberra will have no doubt that we should continue the steady progress along the road upon which we are embarking tonight. 
The system of self-government to be conferred on Norfolk Island is a unique one. As I mentioned a few moments ago, it is modelled on the manner in which we granted self-government to the Northern Territory. One of the unique things about self-government is the change that comes about in relationships. People who are governed by an administering authority very often have the responsibility of advising or requesting that ordinances be made. But the administering authority has the ultimate power to repeal those ordinances or to refuse to accept recommendations about their introduction or their change. 
There are territories of the Commonwealth that have not wanted the power to legislate and I refer in particular to the people of Canberra. For a population in a territory to indicate that they do not want a capacity to legislate is quite a unique event, but the contrary is true in the case of the people of Norfolk Island, as it was true of the people of the Northern Territory. They are part of the Commonwealth of Australia but within that Commonwealth they are to be given legislative capacity. Technically it is possible for the Parliament that confers that legislative capacity at any time in the future to withdraw that power, as it has been possible for the Parliament of Westminster to withdraw the legislative power conferred upon the provinces that became the States of the Commonwealth and as it has been possible for the Parliament of Westminster to withdraw the power conferred upon this Parliament by the Act that established the Australian Constitution. But once a legislating body sets course down a road to confer a degree of selfgovernment upon a people or a territory there is a milestone along that road where the conferring parliament in practical and realistic terms loses the capacity to withdraw the power conferred. I feel sure that as time passes and as the people of Norfolk Island demonstrate their undoubted capacity to manage their affairs, they will have no concern or fear that the powers being conferred by this Bill, and those contemplated to be conferred in the future as this legislation is seen to operate effectively, will ever be withdrawn. 
In the first instance, they would have specific authority in certain areas. They will not have as wide an authority in other areas and the Commonwealth will retain power in yet a third area. The situation is not dissimilar to what we have done in the Northern Territory. The practical reality, I feel sure, is that as the people of Norfolk Island demonstrate that they can handle the affairs of their island, they will be given increased authority. As a member of this Parliament I want to assure the people of Norfolk Island of this Parliament's desire and the Go.rnment's desire to give them real internal self-government. I believe that this legislation is sensible in the way in which it sets us travelling down that road. I must say that I was somewhat confused by the last  speaker  from the Opposition because in one breath he wanted to give them more self-government and in the next breath he wanted to retain this Parliament's control over a wide range of their affairs. 
There has been much talk about Norfolk Island being part of the Commonwealth of Australia, and it is and will remain so. Other territories - for example, the Northern Territory- are part of the Commonwealth and other islands are part of the Commonwealth. In all those islands and those territories, and indeed in our major capital cities in the States, there are communities which feel a distinctiveness. I think we need to place on record an indication that this Parliament, in particular the Government and especially the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott),  understand the distinctive feeling that the people of Norfolk Island have, especially those who are the descendants of the Pitcairn Islanders. We should indicate that we understand that that distinctive feeling, that uniqueness, that sense of belonging to Norfolk Island, spreads across the whole of the community, even to the more recent arrivals to that island. 
At a time when this Parliament is doing so much to enable ethnic communities in the mainland States to recognise their interests, concerns and aspirations and their sense of belonging to their communities, I would hope that the people of Norfolk Island will feel reassured that we understand their feeling of belonging to their island. But just as communities on the mainland and communities of other islands that are part of the Commonwealth feel that sense of belonging to their communities or to their islands, they are at the same time citizens of a commonwealththe Commonwealth of Australia. I hope that the Norfolk Islanders will not feel that in the manner in which this legislation is being introduced there is any denial by this Parliament of that sense of belonging to their island. 
I want to touch on a matter that was referred to by the last speaker; and that relates to social security benefits. I am sure that the people of the island want to have the responsibility of determining their own future in as wide a range of matters of internal government as possible, but I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that the people of the island are entitled to social security benefits as of right. I know that the Minister holds that view. I know that steps are being taken to use the consensus form of legislation, which is so dear to the hearts of the people of the island, to ensure that this comes about, because it is not only the Council that meets; it is the Island that meets. When the proposed new legislative assembly meets I am sure the meetings will be broadcast in a way that is far more intimate than the broadcasts of this Parliament. I hope that the representatives of the people in the new legislative assembly will recognise the concern of this Parliament to ensure that the people are entitled to social security benefits as of right and are not dependent on grace and favour payments. 
One of the difficulties which the island people will face is that in addition to the group of Pitcairn Islanders, there are on the island people who have come from New Zealand, Australia and other parts of the world. Many of those people have carried with them portable pension rights from the countries of their origin or from the countries of their longest residence. But there are on the island a group of people who have not accrued those rights in some other country and it is proper that this Parliament and the Government here in Canberra should be concerned about the welfare and the security of those people. In conclusion, I again warmly support this legislation. I believe it is a milestone and that when its significance is realised by the island people they will take up the challenge and find that they have before them a very real responsibility to govern themselves. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr James)  adjourned. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House requests the Expenditure Committee to conduct an inquiry into the financial management and staff establishments of the Canberra and Woden hospitals and to report to this House on the extent to which savings could be achieved without adversely affecting the provision of appropriate standards of care; and then to conduct similar inquiries into the financial management and staff establishments of the public hospitals in each of the States. 
I rise to take part in this debate to support the Appropriation Bills that are before the House. I want to raise a matter which I believe is of great significance if we are to get our national priorities right in the determination of future budgetary policy. There has been too much glib talk about what has been described as the escalation of allocations to the social welfare budget. We have to be concerned in proportionate terms about the quantum of that allocation. We should be honest when we examine the way that the judgment is made in regard to the increase. I have been interested to observe the way in which a large number of countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development have tended in recent years to move in a similar direction in their social welfare policies. 
Members will recall that there was a time in this country when allowances were made to taxpayers who had dependent children. Those taxpayers were granted a concessional allowance. As a result of this process the Commissioner of Taxation allowed a taxpayer to deduct from his taxable income the approved concession in any one year. Under a progressive rates scale those people on higher incomes received a higher cash benefit than those on lower taxable incomes, and those without any taxable income received no benefit at all. Under the previous Government there was a change. The concessions were abolished and a tax rebate was allowed. All taxpayers had their tax calculated and if they had dependent children, a dependent spouse or student child, they were able to claim the rebate applicable in that year as a deduction of their tax liability. 
When the present Government came into office one of its early and significant social initiatives was to introduce the family allowance. It abolished the tax rebate so far as dependent children were concerned and made an explicit cash payment to the parent- normally the motherwho had the care and control of the child. This was a significant social reform. Some Treasury officials and economists pretend that it cost the revenue $ 1,000m or more, but it did not because the tax collections went up by the amount which would previously have been granted as allowances to taxpayers. It is true that it cost something because part of the social reform was to pay benefits to those in need who were not taxpayers. Are we to believe that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  would suggest that taxpayers with dependent children should receive no concession in respect of their dependent children? Having listened to them in tonight's debate one would believe that they are advocating that there is a level of income at which parents of families supporting dependent children should be on their own. That is contrary to the principles of equity so far as taxpayers and those who are needy are concerned. 
I would invite those two members- as I would invite members of the bureaucracy and particularly in the Department of the Treasury- to study what is happening in other countries, to look at OECD papers, and to examine how other countries are dealing with this problem. Macroeconomists love to say that public expenditures represent a particular percentage of gross domestic product. They love to say that the tax gatherer takes in a certain percentage of GDP. At the stroke of a pen, by an economists 's accounting gimmick, one could reduce the percentage of tax collections and public expenditure and present these figures in a way that may appear to be more acceptable to the honourable member for Moore and the honourable member for Perth, yet not change in any way the financial position of any household in this country. 
We have to be very careful when we transfer hidden or disguised social welfare payments that are delivered through a reduction of tax liability that would have been payable but for the concession to a particular category of person. When we transfer that across to an explicit payment we have to be careful to ensure that the public identify and realise that families caring for children are being recognised as having needs over and above those households who have no dependent children. The OECD is beginning to examine this situation. 
It has become quite clear that it is very difficult to compare the position of one country with another in terms of percentages of public expenditure as against the gross domestic product when one country pays social welfare benefits not only to the needy in the sense that they are poor, but to the needy in the sense that they have dependent children whatever their level of income. They pay those benefits by way of cash in one country but in another the concession to the taxpayer is provided through a tax deduction whether it be in the form of a rebate or concession. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is finding that it is terribly difficult to compare the position of one country this year with its situation last year because countries are changing the proportions of their social welfare packages which they deliver by way of explicit payment as compared with those that they provide through a tax rebate or tax concession. Because there is not an adequate realisation that one can achieve the same social welfare goals through these alternative means, we sometimes find that governments through their income tax system pursue policies which are contradictory to those that are pursued through their social welfare system. I suspect that one of the grave problems that confronts many families in Australia is that that very paradox exists in Australia today where, through the social welfare system, we are seeking to do one thing and we are undermining the attainment of the goals we are trying to achieve by the sort of tax system that we are operating. 
When we look at taxation, I think it is important that we recognise that the general principle applied in the case of personal income taxation is that taxpayers should pay tax according to their taxable capacity. What then becomes relevant is the appropriateness of differentiating between taxpayers having different sized families at any one given level of income. The issue is not one as to how taxpayers at different levels of income should be treated, but rather how taxpayers at the same level of income are dealt with by the system. The defenders of the taxable capacity approach might accept the need for cash transfers for parents below the subsistence level because one argument for setting a tax threshold is that no one who needs the whole of his income for a basic subsistence should pay any of that income by way of personal income tax. Therefore, I presume that when the honourable member for Perth said tonight that he agreed with welfare payments being made to people who were poor, who were in need, then he takes a very narrow definition of need. He forgets that the large proportion of Australian families are paying income tax. Yet they are in need too when we compare their situation with a single man, a single woman or a married couple with no dependent children. 
The question that we must face is whether we will subject a family with dependent children to the same tax burden to which we subject a family with no dependent children or a single taxpayer. If we are not going to subject them to the same tax burden, the question we must ask ourselves is: Are we really going to hide the benefit that we confer on them by giving them a tax rebate or tax concession? Is it not better to expose the whole social welfare program so far as children are concerned by paying cash benefits. Do we not also achieve other advantages for families? I would invite all those honourable members who are suggesting that means tests should be put on the family allowance or that the family allowances should be withdrawn at certain income levels, to ask any woman in a single income household whether she believes the cash benefit should be replaced by a tax rebate. I am sure that those women recognise that this Government's transfer of the cash from their husbands' wallets into their purses was one of the significant reforms introduced by this Government. 
One of the difficulties that we face is the manner in which our friends in the Department of the Treasury present the accounts. I was interested to read that in Britain where they were in the process of introducing explicit cash payments for children in place of a tax rebate concession system, they were doing it over a period of years in contrast to what we did here in this country where we did it in one year. In Britain, in the Government's Budget papers, they have the commonsense and the foresight to present the figures in the alternative. They are netting down the tax paid by the family by the amount of the cash benefit that is paid to that family by way of family allowance. I think that we should do this in this country. If we are to present a truly representative Budget- representative of the full extent and nature of public expenditure- then it is necessary for us to recognise that many taxpaying individuals and many taxpaying families receive cash benefits from the Government. 
It is important for the sort of reason I have just outlined that those cash benefits be paid. We can see the total cost, we can make sure that the benefit is paid in respect of every child in the country and, at the same time, we should make sure that we do not inflate the public expenditure by wrong-headed accounting procedures. We are adopting and continuing to adopt wrongheaded accounting procedures when we treat as part of public expenditure a cash benefit to a family that, in net terms, is paying more to the Government than it is getting back. As families, they would rather the Government pay a cash benefit for the reasons I have mentioned. I will just touch now on the whole question of whether we concentrate on needs. Those who define needs narrowly and who concentrate only on those whom they say are poor, ignore the needs of families on higher incomes when comparing them with single people. I would like to mention a quotation made by a woman called Barbara Rodgers at the National Children's Bureau Annual Conference held in Great Britain in 1976. She stated: 
We should increase the horizontal as well as the vertical redistribution of income in favour of families, and not concern ourselves only with family poverty. 
I would like to quote from another article that appeared in Australia which was written and prepared by Ian Manning of the Urban Research Unit at the Australian National University. He said that some people, however, not only object to the introduction of social dividends- one could say that he is talking about universal payments, and the family allowance is a universal payment for children- but consider that there should be no such payments at all at higher levels of income for such children. He stated: 
It is as though horizontal equity is a luxury for the poor; that the government should regard a poor man's dependent wife and children as its responsibility, but a rich man's as his indulgence. 
I believe that it is the responsibility of government to recognise the role performed by families, to recognise that over the life cycle of a family its income will rise and its income will fall in its purchasing power per head. It is absolutely essential that we preserve the horizontal equity where it exists. Where horizontal equity does not exist it is absolutely essential that we make a real effort to achieve it, while at the same time we do all we can for those who are in real need and those who are below the subsistence level. We will be able to do so only if we review the way in which we present our national accounts and the way in which we assess the tax rebates that are conferred. 
One could argue that the standard rate of tax, which represents about a third of every dollar earned, should be charged from the first dollar upwards. Maybe it is right that the basic rebate should be paid as a cash payment, as was the case under the previous government. Those macro economists who say that public expenditure is too high would then find that we were spending another $3,000m and more by paying to taxpayers- this is assuming that tax is imposed on the first dollar and upwards- an amount which represented the subsistence level. 
A similar situation applies to the age pension. Many age pensioners today are receiving a pension in cash terms but are paying back a proportion of it- in some instances it is more than the pension they receive- in income tax. Yet we innate public expenditure by saying that we are paying these people a pension. Another way in which to reduce public expenditure so that it is a smaller percentage of gross domestic product would be to let these people net out these payments in their income tax returns and pay the net difference on the basis that we recognise that, because of age, those people are entitled to the social security benefits which they are now receiving. One could do the same with the sole parent rebate, namely, pay it in cash terms. We could do the same in the case of the spouse allowance. But we do not. In those cases we keep public expenditure down. Other economists try to pretend, when they talk about this situation, that it is revenue forgone, as though the Government has the prior right to an individual's income. 
The point I want to make is that we have a confused debate about the quantum of resources being spent on welfare. Either we should gross it all up and recognise that everyone is entitled to every benefit- if the whole lot is withdrawn it should be seen as a tax being imposed- or, alternatively, we should net the payments out in such a way that the public expenditure represents, in the case of individuals or households, only the net amounts paid by way of tax. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Health. In a recent statement did the Minister acknowledge the existence of a document which explores a wide range of matters relating to hospitals? Is a broad overview of the subject of hospital rationalisation being carried out? Would the Minister have any objections to- indeed would he welcome- an examination by the Expenditure Committee of this House of the productivity, efficiency and cost containment in hospitals whose operating costs are fully paid by the Commonwealth or shared on a 50-50 basis with the States? 
Can the Treasurer assure the House that, in reaching Budget and taxation decisions, the impact of such decisions on families, especially single income families with dependent children, will be taken into account? Should tax be imposed in accordance with the principle of the capacity to pay? Does the Government believe that the cost of supporting a dependent spouse and dependent children should be taken into account in determining a family's capacity to pay tax? 
I move my amendment No. 2: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 9, at the end of proposed section 2I9G add the following sub-sections:  "(4)Any person to whom information is communicated under sub-section (3), and any person or employee under his control, shall in respect of that information be subject to the same rights, privileges, obligations and liabilities as are imposed on persons under sub-section ( 1 ). "(5) For the purposes of sub-sections ( 1 ) and (4), a person shall be deemed to have communicated such information to another person in contravention of those subsections if he communicates that information to any Minister." '. 
In doing so I draw the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to sub-section (3) of proposed new section 219G which states in part: 
Without limiting the purposes for which a person may, in accordance with sub-section (1) divulge information . . . 
It appears to me that under sub-section ( 1 ) there is no power to divulge any information and I suggest to the Minister - 
Debate interrupted. 
I feel that I must rise at this stage of the debate to make my position clear in the light of the comments made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr 
Hodgman). We are being asked to vote in support of the use of phone tapping and bugging devices in the detection of people involved in the trafficking of narcotics. Trafficking of narcotics is such a serious offence that I believe that Parliament rightly is going to give officers of the Public Service, on the authorisation of a judge, the right to invade privacy to this extent in the interests of the community as a whole. I do have certain amendments which I will be moving later in this debate. We need to distinguish between three elements so far as the gathering of information by government departments is concerned. Those three elements were described as principles in a recent publication put out by the Law Reform Commission dealing with privacy and the census. They are described in this way: 'These principles fall into three broad categories- collection, access and disclosure'. 
Today, in dealing with this legislation, we are talking about collection. My concern is not only in relation to collection but also about the other two principles- access and disclosure. Sometimes, through an oversensitivity about collection, we in this Parliament fail to recognise the grave significance of the rules which govern access and disclosure. Later in this debate I want to talk at greater length about how this Parliament should take a firmer grip on the law relating to access and disclosure. It is to access and disclosure that my amendment is directed. 
But turning now to the question of collection, as we must in debating the proposed amendments, yes, I have said I agree that trafficking in narcotics is so serious that the body set up to administer this Parliament's laws- the Comptroller-General of Customs and his officers- must have available to it the ability to tap phones and use bugging devices. One could say that in general but then we come to the very sensitive issue that the honourable member for Denison described- the role of a private citizen 's legal adviser. The legal adviser has the function and the responsibility of giving advice and of being a mouthpiece for his client. We are saying that under this law, that legal adviser's telephone could be tapped under any circumstances. The Minister, by statement, then qualifies that by saying that he feels sure that those who have to give authority will give it only in those circumstances. The Minister said that a judge would not authorise a listening device to be used in relation to a lawyer or his premises unless either his relationship with a particular person or the use of his premises is an integral part of the illegal behaviour itself. Why do we not say so in the legislation, recognising the unique and special position of the legal adviser acting on behalf of a particular client who may be suspected or acting on behalf of other clients. 
I do not find any problem if, in relation to phone tapping in respect of someone suspected of drug trafficking, it is discovered that he is involved in horse trafficking or in gambling or in some other offence for which the penalty is three years or more and the authority finding out that information passes that information on to some other appropriate law enforcing authority. I do not object to that in the generality, but I am very concerned when it comes to the discovery of that information in the course of the tapping of the phone of a member of the legal profession. We members of parliament can have a constituent in our office and the telephone can ring three or four times. The caller could be telephoning about a range of matters. A solicitor practising in criminal jurisdiction could have a client in his office and at the same time the Comptroller-General of Customs and his officers, having had appropriate surveillance of the suspect, might believe that he is going to see his legal adviser and might decide that that is the appropriate time at which to tap the solicitor's phone. The solicitor's phone could ring half a dozen times because his other clients could be ringing to discuss matters which were confidential and privileged as between the solicitor and his clients. But as this legislation is drafted at present, information in relation to people unrelated to say, a suspected drug trafficker- people who simply phoned their legal adviser- could be used and passed on to a law enforcement agency. 
I would not have the same objection in regard to the tapping of the phone of someone who was believed to be a drug trafficker. If three or four people rang up the same house and said 'Let's make plans about some horse trafficking operation' or 'let's make some plans about a car stealing operation', of course in that case, if the information were discovered, it should be passed on to the authorities because there is no relationship of privilege between one of the users of that telephone and another. But where it is a solicitor's telephone there should be a relationship of privilege to protect the clients going to the solicitor. People should not be made fearful of seeking advice when they need advice as to how they can protect their own interests in accordance with the law. That solicitor might have amongst his clients someone who is seeking advice in relation to a suspected drug trafficking offence. 
So my concern, though similar to that of the honourable member for Denison, is in a much narrower area. Therefore, I will not in the broad be supporting the proposed amendment of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  because it is not narrow enough. It is not directed only to information discovered in the case of the tapping of a solicitor's telephone. In other circumstances, where information becomes available to law enforcing authorities, I believe that it should be passed on, but where it is derived from the tapping of a telephone of a member of the legal profession, I do not think that the information should be used against third parties. Furthermore, I think that the restriction on the use of phone tapping in respect of solicitors' phones and lawyers' phones should be spelt out in this legislation in the words of the Minister's statement. Those words are clear enough. Let us put them into legislation. 
-I seek leave to add to the amendment circulated in my name some words which, in my haste in preparing the amendment, I omitted. 
Leave granted. 
I move my amendment No. 1 which now reads: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 8, proposed section 219g, omit sub-section ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-section: 
A person shall not divulge or communicate to another person, or make use of or record, any information obtained for the purposes of narcotics enquiries that are being, or have been, made by officers of Customs by using a listening device or otherwise, being information that has come to his knowledge or into his possession by reason of his being, or having been, an officer of Customs or by reason of his having entered into an arrangement with an officer of Customs to use a listening device or in other ways obtain information for the purpose of those enquiries other than a communication made- 
To an officer of Customs- 
by an officer of Customs in the course of his duties; or 
by a person who has entered into any such contract, agreement or arrangement; 
b) by an officer of Customs within the limits of authority conferred on him by the Comptroller-General; or 
with the approval of the Comptroller-General or of officers of Customs having authority of the Comptroller-General to give such approval. 
Penalty: $ 1 ,000 or imprisonment for 2 years. '. 
In supporting this amendment I would like to again refer to three of the points I made earlier when taking part in this debate. I draw attention to the fact that in this kind of area we should be concerned about three principles. Firstly, we should be concerned about the collection of information. Secondly, we should be concerned about the access to that information. Thirdly, we should be concerned about its disclosure. Earlier in this debate we were talking about the collection of information and the means whereby information should be collected. I want to address my remarks towards the disclosure of information. It is my view that this Parliament needs to be more concerned about the use, or perhaps rather the potential abuse, of information gathered by instrumentalities and departments which this Parliament authorises governments of the day to establish. In the past concern about the abuse of information in the hands of government departments was at a low level. Government departments became known as bodies in which there was an immense amount of red tape. That phrase 'red tape' tended to imply that it was terribly difficult to retrieve information that had been gathered. Now, with the availability of mechanical and technological methods we have the capacity not only to store information in an efficient and ordered fashion but also the capacity to use those machines to retrieve information. Not only do these methods allow us to retrieve the information gathered by one department of State; they enable us to aggregate the information gathered by a number of departments and instrumentalities, to bring it all together and to use it, in some circumstances for intended purposes and in other circumstances for purposes that were not intended. I think that the rights of individuals are subject to the danger that the information gathered by departments could be abused. 
As I indicated earlier in this debate, I have no serious concern about the gathering of information under the Bill now before the House other than in the circumstances about which I expressed concern, the tapping of solicitors' telephones except in the very narrow circumstances referred to by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  My concern is about the disclosure of that information. It has been put to me that the Crimes Act prevents officers of Government departments from disclosing information. I think that the Crimes Act is a most inadequate and inappropriate vehicle for controlling the disclosure of information that becomes available to departments of State. In fact, my inquiries have led me to discover that the Crimes Act has been ignored in scores of circumstances. Many Bills contain specific provisions dealing with the circumstances in which information can be made available and which impose an obligation of non-disclosure upon members of the Public Service who have been authorised by the legislation to gather that information. Going one step further, some legislation makes it a criminal offence for public servants to disclose that information. 
This new section proposed by the Government is drafted very narrowly. It makes it a criminal offence to disclose information that is obtained in a phone tapping operation. I believe that there should be a specific clause in this Customs Amendment Bill that will make it an offence for a Customs officer to disclose any information that becomes available to him unless Parliament indicates in the legislation that authorises him to collect the information that he may disclose it. Of course, he has to have an opportunity to disclose it. As my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  pointed out, one Customs officer might have to give information to another officer to enable him to complete the investigations and bring drug traffickers before the courts. But he should not be permitted to disclose what some people would describe as irrelevant information. 
Some people think that Customs officers, police officers and security officers should not be able to gather irrelevant information. I believe that they must gather information which appears to be irrelevant at first sight. It is only when a series of items of information is gathered that a jigsaw comes together. Officers charged with the responsibility of enforcing the law, whether it be the customs law, ordinary law or security law, are then able to identify people who are in breach of the law. Customs officers will obtain a lot of irrelevant information, whether by means of a phone tap or by means of surveillance of cars parked in a particular street. I do not believe that they should be able to disclose any information they discover unless it is for the purpose of the enforcement of the law which they are charged to administer. Otherwise the private citizen can be scandalised by the wrong use of that information. 
For example, if Customs officers were able to disclose information as they are under the present law, they could,  Mr Acting Speaker,  go to your street, or a street in the suburb in which you live, and find your car along with 24 other cars. Consider what could happen if in that street there was a house where people were suspected of trafficking in narcotics. They could record your name on a list of 24 or 25 people whose cars were in that street at a time when narcotics trafficking was occurring. If their information is wrongly disclosed you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  could be very gravely disadvantaged. If a member of Parliament, a Minister or an official of a government department says that you had your car parked in the street in which there is a house involved in drug trafficking, people could jump hastily to the wrong conclusion. You could deny it for all you are worth. You could prove that in that street is the home of your aunt, who, for the last six weeks, has been seriously ill and you have been visiting her. Therefore, I believe that it should be an offence for Customs officers to disclose information gathered by them except where Parliament gives them authority to disclose it and it should be made a criminal offence for which they can be charged in order that the rights of individual citizens cannot be abused by the wrong use of the information that is properly collected for the purposes of the administration of the Customs and narcotics laws. 
I feel I must rise again to emphasise that in no way do I believe that this amendment would in any way restrict the adequate fulfilment of the enforcement of the law with regard to narcotics. I do not want to inhibit the ability of Customs officers or police forces to gather information so that they can bring to justice those people who are in breach of the law. I am pleased to hear from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that the matter has been referred to the Australian Law Reform Commission. I would hope that as a result of that Commission's inquiries we will have presented to this Parliament a Bill that is comprehensive in relation to the circumstances in which the employees of government departments and instrumentalities can disclose information that they have gathered either to other officers in other departments or to the public at large. 
I must say that I find the Minister's remarks a little difficult to follow when he is prepared to have a limit and make it an offence for an officer of his Department to disclose information about narcotics inquiries if it is discovered as a result of a telephone tap, but if it is discovered in some other way the Government apparently is far more relaxed about how that information could be misused. It is my concern with that misuse that has brought me to my feet to propose this amendment. I realise that perhaps I was committed in some other areas and with other Bills with a related problem. I was late in bringing this amendment to the attention of the Government and the Opposition. Nevertheless, late or not, I have brought it to the attention of this House because I believe that this Parliament has an increasing responsibility to the Australian people to ensure that its agencies in gathering information, as they must gather it, do not misuse the information to the disadvantage of innocent citizens in the community. 
-Before I come to the detailed reasons for proposing the amendment I want to bring to the attention of the Minister the wording in proposed new section 2 19G (3). It states: 
Without limiting the purposes for which a person may, in accordance with sub-section ( I ), divulge information, a person may divulge or communicate information under certain specified conditions. 
Sub-clause (1) is a total prohibition on the divulging of information and therefore it would seem there is some error in the drafting of the Bill. I invite the Minister to explain how it is that there is this reference back to sub-clause ( 1 ). I suspect it should be a reference back to subclause (2). I hope the Minister's advisers will be able to draw that point to his attention when he is summing up on this clause. 
This afternoon when discussing this sort of legislation I expressed concern about the danger for a free democratic society arising from the accumulation of vast amounts of information in the hands of institutions and departments set up with the authority of this Parliament. The circumstances are such that that information can threaten individual freedom and the privacy of individuals. The authorities and people are now becoming increasingly worried about the possible abuse of data banks used by law enforcement agencies to store criminal records as well as unsupported allegations, tips and other potentially derogatory information about people. The information that can be gathered by the use of phone taps and other devices can be misused. The clause that we are now debating authorises the Customs authority to pass information on in certain circumstances. The first sub-clause of my amendment is designed to impose the same restraints on the persons to whom that information is passed as is imposed upon officers of the Customs Department. 
The second sub-clause to which I want to direct the House's attention is, I believe, of far greater significance. How often have we heard in this House the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  asked at Question Time, more often than not by members of the Opposition than members of the Government, to comment upon tax information relating to an individual or a business? The Treasurer has drawn to the attention of the House the fact that it is not his practice to disclose such information nor is he permitted to do so, because clause 1 6 (5A ) of the Income Tax Assessment Act reads as follows: 
For the purposes of sub-sections (2) and (S), an officer or person shall be deemed to have communicated such information to another person in contravention of those subsections if he communicates that information to any Minister. 
We often hear government officers and Ministers talking about the need-to-know principle. I hold the view quite strongly that the Parliament should adopt the view that Ministers have no need to know any information that is gathered in a phone tap operation even when the Parliament justifies the collection of that information because of its deep concern about trafficking in narcotics. I say that because the information not only relates to the narcotics offender; there is other information which could be used to defame, to assassinate the character of some person whose character is not capable of being challenged in the courts of the land. A skerrick of information gathered at the same time as information is being gathered about narcotics trafficking can be used to blacken by association. In a modern democratic state it is important that Ministers be protected from circumstances in which they can be called upon to supply such information. Equally, people of a democratic state need to be protected from the misuse of that information by its supply in circumstances where the evidence that appears on its surface to call in question the character of a person cannot be substantiated. 
I have in mind a specific case. I have discussed this with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I believe that some time ago he was placed in a very difficult situation. There was a report in a magazine that a car belonging to a member of Parliament had been identified as being in a location or a street where there was some suggestion by the Customs authorities that drug trafficking was going on. The Minister saw fit in that case to indicate the view that there was no basis upon which there should be any concern about that member of Parliament. This Parliament should protect the Minister, every member of Parliament and every public citizen from the threat of character assassination as a consequence of information being gathered in any way. Particularly is this so in respect of this legislation which authorises the gathering of information through phone tapping. That information should not be referred to other than in a court where that person is being prosecuted for a breach of the law because, by innuendo, seemingly irrelevant information can cause great damage to a private citizen, particularly one involved in public affairs. 
My amendment is designed to leave the Comptroller of Customs with the responsibility of discharging certain powers and authorities conferred upon him by this Parliament and to enforce the law, particularly in regard to drug and narcotic trafficking, but it precludes that information from Ministers on the same basis that this Parliament precludes from Ministers information about the taxation affairs of any individual and, in a similar way but not quite so strictly, precludes from Ministers information about health and social security matters. 
I think Parliament should take stock and ask: In what circumstances does a Minister need to know personal information about any citizen in the land? I recognise that Parliament needs to set up, under the general authority of Ministers, departments to administer the law of the land. The law we are talking about tonight is the law relating to drug and narcotic trafficking. No one wants to limit the capacity to see that the law is enforced. What one wants to do is limit the capacity to abuse the information gathered. I am not suggesting that this Minister or any previous Ministers would have misused that information. I am concerned that at some time in the future the fact that that information can be supplied to Parliament places a Minister in a position where he may be able to abuse it. 
-I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. Whilst I do not agree that clause 13 is in a satisfactory form, the method being adopted in the proposed amendment, although it is said to be modelled on the provisions of South Australian legislation, really does not adequately cover the problems that have been raised and identified by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. In one sense the provision suggested by the Opposition could lead to the Australian Federal Police becoming a political police force because it proposes that the Minister be given power to give any directions he likes. He may have a compliant police commissioner whom he may ask to pursue inquiries about a particular individual. He may also ask the police commissioner not to pursue inquiries about a particular individual and the compliant police commissioner and his officers may carry out that request. The Opposition is suggesting that there should be the power to direct and that that direction be made public. But what of the present circumstances in which, without direction but on request, inquiries are carried out or not carried out, information is supplied or not supplied? I would have preferred to see an amendment in this form. In the light of the statement made earlier this evening by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  I am proposing to move it. The Minister, in being given the power to direct in regard to general policy should, I believe, be prohibited in these words: 
. but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Commissioner (a) on the question of whether the collection of information by the Australian Federal Police concerning a particular individual would, or would not, be justified by reason of its relevance to the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police. 
I believe it should be for the police commissioner and his officers, acting with the sort of autonomy that the spokesman for the Opposition talks about, to determine whether or not information should be gathered about a particular individual. I would also like to see the amendment go on to prescribe:  or (b) on the question whether a communication of information concerning a particular individual would be for a purpose relevant to the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police. 
I do not believe the Minister should be in the position of either giving a direction and tabling it in this Parliament or, alternatively, through a compliant commissioner of police, getting information about a particular individualinformation off police files that may be totally irrelevant to the discharge of police duties but gathered by accident in the circumstances of pursuing people who are law breakers. It may also be information which, on its face, is today irrelevant but which next week, next month, next year or three years hence may become highly relevant because with the additional information that has been gathered in the meantime it indicates that the person about whom that information, originally irrelevant, was gathered is a person in whom the police force has some interest in the discharge of its proper functions. I would have liked to see the amendment go on to read: 
The communication of information on behalf of the Australian Federal Police shall be made only by the Commissioner or by any other member acting within the limits of authority conferred on him by the Commissioner. 
In other words, information should be made available off police files only if the commissioner gives authority for it to be supplied. He should give authority for the supply of that information only if it is to be used within the discharge of the functions of the police. For example, the police may wish to place the evidence before the court or in pursuing a person thought to be guilty of a crime it may find it necessary to give information to the Press about persons in the vicinity who might be of interest to them in circumstances where they can bring about a prosecution. 
If a person makes a communication of any information or matter that has come to his knowledge or into his possession by reason of his being or having been a member of the Australian Federal Police he should be guilty of an offence, unless that communication is made to another member of the Australian Federal Police or is made within the limits of the authority conferred upon that member of the Australian Federal Police by the commissioner or with the approval of the commissioner or an officer having authority of the commissioner to give that approval. Of course, I recognise the need to specify circumstances in which information can be passed on to other agencies, to other law enforcement authorities, whether they are State or Territory police forces, to customs authorities and to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I feel most strongly that the Opposition 's amendment is quite inadequate to achieve the purposes that have been outlined for it because it is wide open to the sorts of abuses about which I am talking. Those people who are guilty of supplying information should be liable to a charge themselves. 
The Act should specify quite clearly that it is an offence to supply information about an individual to the Minister. That does not in any way derogate from the Minister's ministerial responsibility and his responsibility to this Parliament in terms of the administration of the force. It is not right that any Minister now or in the future should be able to say to the commissioner of police: 'Supply to me information on your files about a particular individual'. The information might be properly collected but might also be irrelevant but nevertheless compromising and damaging to the individual to whom that information relates. If the Opposition were trying to achieve the sorts of purposes it has outlined, it should be seeking to insert clauses similar to those that restrict the commissioner of taxation from supplying information to the Treasurer and restrict the Treasurer from seeking that information about particular individuals. I do not see any distinction at all in the circumstances in which an individual innocent of any offence or any breach can be seriously damaged by the supply of that information. 
I emphasise that the sorts of amendments I would like to see do not reflect any wish on my part to inhibit or restrict in any way the capacity of the Australian Federal Police to carry out its functions as spelled out in the legislation, nor do I see the sorts of restrictions I am suggesting should be in the legislation in any way inhibiting the responsibility of a Minister to this Parliament. The danger of the Opposition's amendment is that it will create a situation where a Minister may use a compliant police commissioner or, in the knowledge of the numbers the Government might have in this place and the time lags that might occur before notice has to be given, may direct a police commissioner to supply information about an individual which has not come before the courts to cast doubt under the law as to whether or not that person has been in breach of the law. I think that is one of these cases where one has to take account of the words of David Ogilvy who said: 
How can Godfearing democracies maintain effective intelligence services without compromising civil rights? The answer does not lie in making these services subordinate to leaky committees of self-serving politicians, but in appointing men of integrity to run them, men who can be relied upon not to abuse their power. 
We have to provide the bulwark that secures a commissioner of police in circumstances where the power and the authority vested in him cannot be abused by him or, indeed, by Ministers who seek to take advantage of the circumstances of the information that is available to those forces. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Australian Federal Police Bill now before the House is designed to establish the Australian Federal Police. That force is to be given certain functions, and they are specified in clause 8 of the Bill. They include the provision of police services in relation to the Australian Capital Territory, the provision of police services in relation to laws of the Commonwealth and the property of the Commonwealth, the safeguarding of Commonwealth interests, and anything incidental or conducive to the performance of the foregoing functions. Under this legislation the Parliament is authorising the Crown, the Executive that governs this country, to establish a force to fulfil those functions. In the past when Parliament authorised the establishment of a department, authorised the establishment of an institution such as a police force, it set out the functions and conferred the powers. 
I have a very deep concern that, not only in relation to this Bill but also in relation to other pieces of legislation that have passed through this chamber over recent decades, the Parliament has conferred upon the Executive very wide powers, powers that, except in one limited sense to which I will refer to in a moment, are beyond the control of this Parliament. Because they are beyond the control of this Parliament, we have conferred upon the Executive and upon the institutions that this Parliament has authorised the Executive to establish the capacity to abuse the powers that are so conferred. I recognise the need for a police force in the sense of law enforcement in the Territories of the Commonwealth and in regard to the enforcement of the Commonwealth laws throughout Australia. I want the police force to have the widest possible powers to ensure that it can discharge the duties that this Parliament has in mind for it. But I am concerned that we should ensure that there are adequate safeguards, guidelines, parameters within which that force can operate- parameters that are not to limit it in the discharge of its duties, but parameters that are to limit its capacity, the capacity of any individual member of the force, the capacity of its Commissioner, the capacity of its ministerial head, to abuse the powers in a way which could erode the authority of a democratically elected Parliament and destroy the possibility of that Parliament being democratically elected again in the future. 
I have chosen to raise this matter in this debate, but I reaffirm the view that my concern relates to many of the institutions to which this Parliament gives authority. There is a growing concern within the community among informed people who understand how the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy, based on the principle of ministerial responsibility, is developing. The principle of ministerial responsibility to parliament is seen by many as becoming increasingly ineffectual. I think it is necessary for us to look at some of the historic origins of this House. How is it that we are being asked tonight to vote on a piece of legislation that gives to the Executive a power to govern this country in terms of the running of its police force? It was decided long ago in the Case of Proclamations in 1611 that the King, who was the Executive then, could exercise legislative authority only through Parliament. In part the decision was in these terms: 
The gist of the Case of Proclamations is that the King is the Executive and his business the enforcement of the existing law; his prerogative is under the law and Parliament alone can alter the law which the King is to administer. 
The Bill of Rights in 1689 and the Act of Settlement in 1701 embodied in legal terms the settlement of constitutional government between Parliament and the Executive following the 1688 Revolution. These statutes mark a victory for Parliament over the Executive, over the King. From that time on, in place of government by royal prerogative government was to be by and through Parliament. Since that time, Parliament has given to the Executive, the King, the Crown, increasing authority to govern and has handed over in many areas what I regard as a blank cheque. It has not put within the legislation in which it authorises the setting up of institutions sufficient restrictions to prevent the abuse of power. 
I believe that Parliament over the next decade will need increasingly to ensure that, in the ultimate, it is Parliament that protects the rights of individuals and the very democracy which brings us as elected representatives of the people to this chamber. This legislation, therefore, is a case where we can examine the manner in which ministerial responsibility operates. In the view of many, the meaning of the term 'responsibility' has come to be interpreted very narrowly. Ministers, though accountable to Parliament for any of their faults and shortcomings insofar as they are obliged to answer to Parliament with respect to such matters are not themselves held culpable and, therefore, bound to resign or be subjected to dismissal unless the action which stands condemned was theirs. 
There are two forms of ministerial responsibility- the one for which the Minister is directly legally responsible and the other which is the operation of the convention where the Minister is responsible to this House to account for his own actions and the actions of his own Department. The Minister's responsibility is a responsibility to administer the law for the Australian Constitution states in clause 6 1 : 
The powers and duties of the Commonwealth Executive Government relate to the execution and maintenance of the consultation and the execution and maintenance of the laws of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
If a Minister or a government comes to this House and asks that we authorise the establishment of an Australian federal police, this Parliament is entitled to lay down the laws under which that force is to operate. In one major and significant respect, this Parliament is not sufficiently defining the manner in which it believes the Australian federal police should operate, that is, the manner in which there is a lack insofar as the disclosure of information is concerned. 
I spoke earlier in this session on the Customs Amendment Bill and drew attention to this very problem that Parliament is authorising a federal police force that is to have responsibility to fulfil the functions that I outlined, to have authority to enter into agreement and to have computer and other information banks, but we impose upon the members of that force no legal prohibition with regard to the use of that information. We leave it to the general law and to the Crimes Act. Yet when we look at the legislation that governs the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation we say that it:  shall be an offence for officers of that Force to disclose information except in circumstances defined by Parliament. 
Without in any way inhibiting the discharge of its proper functions the Australian federal police should have within its legislation a restriction that indicates the manner in which the information can be used. Insofar as it is used beyond the specified manner, it should be an offence for police officers to disclose that information. To achieve this, I would have liked to have moved an amendment. I have discussed this amendment with the Minister for Administrative Services and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay).  It is an amendment somewhat similar to an amendment that I moved to an earlier Bill. It is designed to incorporate in this legislation guidelines similar to those contained in the ASIO legislation. It is designed to include in this legislation limitations about the supply of information similar to those imposed upon the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  with regard to the information gathered by the Commissioner of Taxation. I cannot understand why we do not specify these restrictions within this legislation. The time is coming for this Parliament to look at the Crimes Act and to review the legislation that governs the circumstances in which officers of Commonwealth Government departments, and members of Commonwealth Government instrumentalities are required by law to keep confidential information that is gathered by them. There is no doubt that a police force must gather a huge amount of information about hundreds and thousands of law-abiding citizens as it goes about its job of finding those who are the law breakers. None of us who believe and endeavour to comply with the laws of the land should be concerned that our names may happen to come on to information collected by police forces, security organisations and customs authorities because, of necessity, we cannot tell when we park our car in a particular street, when we walk down a particular street or go to a particular meeting whether we are in an area or a place that the law enforcement authorities have under surveillance because they suspect that someone else may be there. The innocent should not be condemned by their association. They should only be convicted if the law enforcing authorities believe that they have sufficient information to lay a charge and bring that charge before the courts of the land. To show how diverse are the provisions that govern the disclosure of information, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the provisions of Commonwealth legislation which restrict the access to information. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PROVISIONS OF COMMONWEALTH LEGISLATION WHICH RESTRICT ACCESS TO INFORMATION 
COMMONWEALTH ACTS 
A: Provisions prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information 
Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, 1976 s.23E 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, 1975 s. 66 
Atomic Energy Act, 1 953 ss. 44-48 (s. 5 'restricted information'), 52, 53 
Audit Act, 1907 s. 14c 
Australian Capital Territory Taxation (Administration) Act, 1969 s. 7 
Australian Film Commission Act, 1975 s. 43 
Australian Science and Technology Council Act, 1978 s. 26 
Broadcasting and Television Act, 1942 s. 106B 
Census and Statistics Act, 1 905 ss. 7, 24 
Commonwealth Banks Act, 1959 s. 15 
Commonwealth Electoral Act, 1918 ss.93(l)(c), 155 (ii) 
Crimes Act, 1 9 1 4 ss. 70,79 
Defence Act, 1903 s. 73a 
Defence (Transitional Provisions) Act, 1 949 s. 9 
Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act, 1978 s. 3 1 
Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act, 1974 s. 85 
Export Incentives Grants Act, 1 97 1 s. 8 
Export Market Development Grants Act, 1974 s. 37 
Family Law Act, 1975 s. 19 
Financial Corporations Act, 1974 s. 27 
Gift Duty Assessment Act. 1941s. 10 
Health Insurance Act, 1973 s. 130 
Home Savings Grant Act, 1974 s. 13 
Home Savings Grant Act, 1 976 s. 4 1 
Hospitals and Health Service Commission Repeal Act, 1 978 s. 9 
Housing LoansI nsurance Act, 1 965 s. 43 
Income Tax Assessment Act, 1 936 s. 16 
Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, 1967 s.23 
Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act, 1976 s. 22 
Insurance Acts, 1973 ss. 74, 126, 127 
Life Insurance Act, 1945 s. 57 
National Health Act, 1953 s. 135a 
National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, 1975 s.17e 
Ombudsman Act, 1976 s. 35 
Patents Act, 1952 ss. 19(a), 131 
Pay Roll Tax Assessment Act, 1941 s.11 
Pay Roll Tax (Territories ) Assessment Act 
Port Statistics Act, 1977 s. 7 
Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions ) Act, 1 975, s. 37 
Re-establishment and Employment Act, 1 945 ss. 70, 7 1 
Reserve Bank Act, 195 1 s. 16 
Sales Tax Assessment Act (No.1), 1930s. 10 
Science and Industry Research Act, 1949 s. 3 1 
Social Services Act, 1 947 s. 17 
Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Act, 1976 s. 8 
State Receipts Duties (Administration) Act, 1970 s. 21 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act, 1947 s. 10 
Structural Adjustment (Loan Guarantees) Act, 1974 s.11 
Supply and Development Act, 1939 s. 25 
Taxation Administration Act, 1953 s.14f 
Telecommunications Act, 1975 s. 82 
Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act,1960 s.5(3) 
Tobacco Charges Assessment Act, 1955s. 10 
Trade Practices Act, s. 149 
Wool Tax (Administration) Act, 1964 s. 8 
B: Provisions restricting publication of information 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act, 1975 ss. 28 (2), 35 (2), 36, 36a, 46(2) 
Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act, 1977 s. 14 
Atomic Energy Act, 1 953 s. 62 
Aliens Act, 1947 s. 6 
Australian Citizenship Act, 1 948 s. 46a ( 5 ) 
Australian Industry Development Corporation Act, 1970s. 8a (3) 
BankingAct, 1959 ss. 31,59,61 (3) 
Bounties Procedure Act, 1907 ss. 6, 9 
Census and Statistics Act, 1 905 s. 20 ( 3 ) 
Commonwealth Electoral Act,1 9 18 ss. 93, 155 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1904 s. 186 
Copyright Act, 1968 s. 163 
Courts-Martial Appeals Act, 1955 s. 18 
Crimes Act1904,s. 85b. 
Defence (Special Undertakings) Act, 1952 s. 3 1 
Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 1974ss. 11 (5), 14(2) 
Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act, 1978 s.15(l)(d) 
Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act, 1 974 s. 32(3) 
Family Law Act, 1975 ss. 18, 121 
Federal Court of Australia Act, 1976 s. 50 
Financial Corporations Act, 1 974 s. 22 
Fisheries Act, 1952 s. 17(3) 
Health Insurance Act, 1973 s.106g(4) 
Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, 1967 s.38(2)(c) 
Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act. 1976 s. 40 (2) (c) 
Industries Assistance Commission, 1973 s. 33 (5 ) 
Life Insurance Acts, 1945 s. 145 
National Health Act, 1953 ss. 73(4), 134a (6) 
National Labour Consultative Council Act, 1977 s.5(2)(c) 
Patents Act, 1952 ss. 55, 131 
Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, 1967 ss. 86, 118(6) 
Prices Justification Acts, 1973 s. 23 (5) 
Primary Industry Bank Act, 1 977 s. 1 1 
Public Accounts Committee Act, 1951 s. 1 1 
Public Works Committee Act, 1969 s. 23 
Racial Discrimination Act, 1975 s. 22 (5) 
Royal Commissions Act, 1 902 s. 6D 
Trade Marks Act, 1 955 s. 74 (7) 
Trade Practices Act, 1974 ss. 21(3), 89(5)-(5e). 
95 (3)-(8), 165 (3) 
C: Provisions requiring evidence to be taken or meeting to be conducted in private 
Broadcasting and Television Act, 1942 s. 19(2) 
Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act, 1971s. 81 (2) 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1904 ss. 27 (6), 41 (g) 
Customs Act, 1901 s.183G 
Health Insurance Act, 1973 ss. 60(2), 76(2), 91 (2), 97(1), 118(1) 
Home Savings Grant Act, 1 976 s. 42 (1 ) 
Industries Assistance Commission, 1973 s. 33 (2) 
Insurance Acts, 1 973 s. 8 1 
National Health Act, 1953 s. 123 
Nursing Homes Assistance Act, 1 974 ss. 23 (2 ), 26 (1 ) 
Trade Practices Act, 1973 s. 21 (2)(cf.s.21 (3)(b)) 
Repatriation Act, 1920s. 121 
Re-establishmentand Employment Act, 1 945 s. 86 
Social Services Act, 1947 s. 141 
Student Assistance Act, 1973 s. 29 (2) 
Public Service Act, 1922 s. 60(2) 
STATUTORY RULES 
A: Provisions prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information 
Australian Broadcasting Commission (Staff) Regulations rr. 59, 60 
Australian Capital Territory Representation Regulations r. 64 
Broadcasting and Television Regulations, r. 25 
Census Regulations, r. 9 
Commonwealth Banks Regulations, rr. 33, 34 
Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Regulations, r. 6 1 
Commonwealth Police Regulations, r. 19 
Electoral and Referendum Regulations, r. 34 ( 1 ) 
Family Law Regulations, r. 20 
Gift Duty Regulations, r. 4 
High Commissioner (Staff) Regulations, r. 88 
Income Tax Regulations, r. 4 
Life Insurance Regulations, r. 24 
National Security (War Damage to Property) Regulations, r. 59 
Naval Establishment Regulations, r. 39 
Northern Territory Electoral Regulations, r. 127 ( 1 ) 
Papua New Guinea (Staff) Assistance (Terms and Conditions of Employment) Regulations, 44, 18, 19 
Pay-roll Tax Regulations, r. 4 
Public Service Regulations, r. 35 
Public Service (Parliamentary Officers) Regulations, rr. 23, 24 
Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Regulations, r. 18 
Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Regulations, r. 18 
Reserve Bank Regulations, rr. 4, 6 
Sales Tax Procedure Regulations, r. 35 
Statistics Regulations, r. 4 
Supply and Development Regulations, r. 56 
Telecommunications (Telecom Australia Stock) Regulations, r. 26 
Wireless Telegraphy Regulations, r. 36 
Wool Tax (Administration) Regulations, r. 8 
B: Provisions restricting publication of information 
Air Navigation Regulations, rr. 107 (3), 283 (1), 291 (7), 295 
Australian Citizenship Regulations, rr. 78 (5), 7c 
Australian Military Regulations, r. 770 
Australian Military (Places of Detention) Regulations, r. 11 (2) 
Marriage Regulations, r. 70 (4) 
National Security (Industrial Property) Regulations, r. 5 
Naval Forces Regulations, r. 130 
Postal Services Regulations, r. 47 
Re-establishment and Employment (Allowances and Loans) Regulations, rr. 35, 37 
Repatriation Regulations, r. 45 
Trade Practices Regulations, rr. 24, 27(3), 33 
C: Provisions requiring evidence to be taken or meeting to be conducted in private 
Air Force (Courts of Inquiry ) Regulations, r. 9 
Commonwealth Teaching Service Regulations, r. 38 
Customs (Quota Orders Review Tribunal ) Regulations, r. 15 
Excise (Quota Orders Review Tribunal) Regulations, r. 13 
Postal Services Regulations, r. 20 
Sales Tax Regulations, r. 43 ( 2 ) 
States Receipts Duties Regulations, r. 17(2) 
Taxation Administration Regulations, r. 7 
Telecommunications Regulations, r. 20 
ACT LEGISLATION 
A: Provisions prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information 
Companies Ordinance, 1962, s. 7 (9) 
Consumer Affairs Ordinance, 1973 s. 15E 
Enquiry Ordinance, 1938 s. 5b(.3) 
Fire Brigade (Administration) Ordinance, 1974 ss. 42, 63 
Legal Aid Ordinance, 1977 s. 92 
Legal Practitioners Ordinance (No. 2), I970ss. 65, 68 
Liquor Ordinance, 1975 s. 17(6) 
Police (Disciplinary Provisions) Ordinance, 1972 s. 16 
Prices Regulation Ordinance, 1949 s. 8 
Statistics Ordinance, 1929 s. 7 
B: Provisions restricting publication of information 
Adoption of Children Ordinance, 1965 ss. 49, 50, 59-6 1 . 65 
Adoption of Children Regulations, ss. 10, 10a(5) 
Agents Ordinance, 1968 s. 93( 13) 
Child Welfare Ordinance, 1957 s. 14(2) (c), 14(3) 
Companies Ordinance, 1962ss. 169(4), 177 (5) (b) 
Evidence Ordinance, 1971 ss. 83, 85 
First Offenders ( Women ) Ordinance, 1 947 ss. 3, 4 
Inebriates Act, l900(N.S.W.)s. 12 
Maintenance Ordinance, 1971 I9(3a), 20( 10a) 
Mining Ordinance, 1930s. 55 
Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages Ordinance, 1963 45SS.(3),51 (4)-(6) 
Small Claims Ordinance, 1974 18(2) 
Statistics Ordinance, 1929 s. 17 
C: Provisions requiring evidence to be taken or meeting to bc conducted in private 
Agents Ordinance, 1968 s. 88(4) 
Landlord and Tenant Ordinance, 1979 s. 74 
Liquor Ordinance, 1975 ss. 31(7) and (8), 57(2) and (3) 
Milk Authority Ordinance, 1971 s. 18(4) 
Poker Machine Control Regulations, s. 6 
Remand Centres Ordinance, 1976 s. 25 
Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance, 1977 s. 49(4) 
Venereal Diseases Ordinance, 1956 s. 14 
APPLIED IMPERIAL LEGISLATION 
A: Provisions prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information 
Naval Discipline Act, 1957 (Imp.) s. 34, applied by the Naval Defence Act, 1910 s. 34 and Naval Forces Regulations, r. 8 
Army Act, 1881 (Imp.) s. 36, applied by the Defence Act, 1903 s. 55 and Australian Military Regulations, r. 9 
Air Force Act, 1917 (Imp.) s. 36, applied by the Air Force Act, 1923 and Air Force Regulations, r. 13 
C: Provisions requiring evidence to be taken or meeting to be conducted in private 
Naval Discipline Act, 1957 (Imp.) s. 61, applied as above 
Rules of Procedure (Army), r. 63, applied us above 
Rules of Procedure (Air Force ), r. 63, applied as above. 
When honourable members have an opportunity to read  Hansard,  they will see the large number of Acts of this Parliament that seek to restrict access to information. Honourable members will agree there is a need for a comprehensive piece of legislation that governs all the circumstances in which information is to be kept confidential and to ensure that innocent citizens are not in any way prejudiced by the misuse of information collected. It is true to say that police forces over the years have gathered information. They have had to. It is proper that they should. But one thing that now occurs that did not previously occur is that that information can be recalled at the push of a button. It is that capacity to retrieve information, information that is irrelevant but possibly compromising of an innocent citizen, that leaves this Parliament in a position where it  does not adequately discharge its responsibilities if it confers upon law enforcing authorities and other instrumentalities the power to gather information but in no way restricts the capacity of those who gather it to abuse the trust that is placed in them by this Parliament. 
Having spoken in general terms, I want to direct the attention of the House to what I regard as a quite significant gap in this legislation. It is quite clear that it is intended that the Australian Federal Police shall have a special branch.  Sir Robert  Mark recommended that it should have such a branch. He noted that the term 'special branch' does provoke in the minds of many an emotional and unthinking response. I believe the Australian Federal Police Force should have a special branch. A law enforcing authority of the Commonwealth like the law enforcing authorities of the States has a critical role to play in the general security of this nation and should gather and pass on information that relates to the nation's security. 

 Mr Justice Hope also made it quite clear that State police special branches should remain an integral part of the overall intelligence system. If it is to be the case that the Australian Federal Police are to have a special branch, why is it that we impose upon Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officers a strict code of behaviour and make it an offence for them to disclose information about any person who is on their files. A person who in no way is a security risk and about whom there is no concern from a security point of view could find that, because of association, his name may quite properly have found its way on to a security file. What begins as irrelevant information can, in due course of time, for some people become quite relevant information in a security context. In like manner, in the case of an ordinary police file irrelevant information about an individual may, in the course of time, when the jigsaw is pieced together by the gathering of further information, become quite relevant. But, we say that it is an offence for an ASIO officer to disclose information unless he does so in a specified way on the authority of the DirectorGeneral of ASIO. Yet we put no such restriction on the disclosure of information by members of the Australian Federal Police acting in their role as general police officers or in their role working for the special branch of the Australian Federal Police. I am concerned that there is this gap and believe that the sort of amendments that I have discussed with the Minister would have overcome the problem. The Minister has indicated that he proposes to take a certain course of action. Included in that course of action is the reference- in the context of the reference by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs (  Mr Fife)  to the Law Reform Commission of this whole question- of the way in which information gathered by Commonwealth Government instrumentalities can be used contrary to the intentions of this Parliament and in a manner which is designed to abuse free citizens about whom the police force, either in a security sense or a general police sense, has no concern. Therefore, I urge the Minister to take seriously this question of law reform. 
-Did the Treasurer say yesterday that this year's Budget is a businessman's Budget? Will he give serious consideration to making the next mini-Budget or Budget a budget for Australia's families? Did the Treasurer acknowledge in the same speech that the case of the single income family has growing support amongst his parliamentary colleagues? Did the Government have before it a proposal which was designed to make the tax and welfare system fairer and more equitable? Did the proposal involve easing the tax disadvantage of single income families, thereby honouring previous commitments to those taxpayers whose relative needs are greatest in preference to those who have a greater taxpaying capacity? Will he confirm that the Government is concerned for the general wellbeing of Australia's families? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Is there a crisis of business and consumer confidence in South Australia? What is the present unemployment situation in that State? What is required to improve the prospects for job seekers in South Australia? 
-The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  who has just resumed his seat said that the Australian Labor Party has a rational policy on energy. I wonder whether he supported that policy. In Labor Party councils, he promoted the left wing line on energy policy. He had to be brought into line by the leading spokesman for the Labor Party in this debate this afternoon the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I wonder whether the leading spokesman wrote that speech for his colleague to deliver this afternoon to make sure that he had him on the record espousing a policy that was different from those views that the honourable member holds himself. 
We are told that a united policy is being expressed today but I read in the newspapers at the weekend that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has some different views about what Australia's energy policy should be with regard to uranium exploitation in this country. I point out that we live in a federation. Over a period this Government has announced a dynamic, sensible and forwardlooking energy policy. The Government knows that we have to live in a real world, in a world that is short of energy and, in particular, short of oil. As a result of the events that have occurred in other parts of the world, the Government has taken resolute action to ensure that Australia's availability of oil resources is guaranteed. When the Labor Party was in office, oil exploration in this country stopped and, as a result, today to a large extent we are paying some of the price of that. We are not, as the previous speaker said, able to boast that we have 90 per cent selfsufficiency in oil. At best we have something in the order of 70 per cent self-sufficiency. There are many indications that but for the initiatives of the present Government, that percentage would have begun to fall and fall very rapidly. When we talk about energy, we need not only be concerned about petroleum and oil products. Also we need to be concerned about other sources of energy that we can sell overseas to buy energy types that are more suited to our needs. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, as you would know, I come from South Australia. If we want to see whether the Labor Party has a coherent energy policy, let us look at the present situation in South Australia where there is an economy that is in decline. As I said at Question Time today, in South Australia there is a crisis of confidence in the economy. Businessmen across the whole scene of the South Australian economy lack confidence. Consumers lack confidence. The public lacks confidence in its future. That loss of confidence has come about because of the 10 years of Labor government within that State. 
Government in an election week. This is a specific matter of public importance and the honourable member who is speaking should be bound to speak precisely to it. ' 
I am speaking precisely to the point of the Government's energy policies and I am saying that they are coherent policies. But it is very difficult for a nation to have coherent energy policies, particularly for a federation, if some parts of that federation are negligent in the way in which they handle the situation within their own States. Some discussion has taken place this afternoon about the pricing of petroleum. We heard the honourable member for Blaxland say that he believes that the price of petroleum had to be gradually brought up to world parity prices but not all in one jump. That appeared to be the gist of what he had to say. He is opposed to the bold, determined policy of this Government to ensure that our - 
The honourable member for Blaxland was complaining about the price of petrol to the Australian petrol user. I draw the attention of the House to what will happen as a result of a Labor Party decision in South Australia. The price of petrol in South Australia will be raised on 1 October by lc a litre because the State Labor Government has imposed an additional petrol tax. It has done so, it says, to pay for the lost revenue resulting from its forgoing of the road tax. It is raising the tax to compensate for some rather mean concessions that it has given to South Australian motorists in terms of licence fees. But in the South Australian Parliament legislation which proposed a growth tax would have imposed a tax burden on South Australian motorists far in excess of the replacement cost of the taxes it was substituting. The Labor Party in South Australia is willing to impose taxes on petrol in the way in which the honourable member for Blaxland is complaining that the Commonwealth Government is doing in respect of a far more coherent energy policy. 
I want to turn again to the question of uranium. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  would know well that there are two major divisions within the Labor Party in South Australia. In the election campaign the Labor Party is being led - 
In an energy debate, surely we must look at the situation in the world context. Uranium must be regarded as one of the world's major energy sources. Many countries are dependent upon uranium for energy. In Australia we must be prepared to develop the uranium industry - 
Uranium is not required for power generating plants, but it is required to enable Australia to obtain overseas currency with which we can then, when the need arises, purchase other energy sources. In looking at energy, it is important that the available resources in this country should be developed. In South Australia the Labor Party is led by Premier Corcoran. Many South Australians are asking themselves whether he is really the leader of the Labor Party in that State who, if the election - 
I want to explain to the House the fact that earlier this year the Labor Party attempted to pass a motion in South Australia that would have prevented the development of Roxby Downs at any time in the future. As a result of the work-statesmanlike work- of the honourable member for Hawker who, through his research assistant, was able to persuade two delegates, that conference voted the amendment out. In South Australia the Labor Party has resolved to develop Roxby Downs when it is satisfied that the safeguards are sufficient. But no one knows who is to determine when it is satisfied. The Liberal Opposition in South Australia wants to see Roxby Downs developed. Its development would be a catalyst that would turn South Australia's economy around. It is a goldmine that would enable the State's economy to take off and employment to rise. 
-A part of that development could be producing ore within 12 months. It is near Lake Frome. 
-The Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 2 1 August is an economically responsible document. It continues the Government's uncompromising attack on inflation and is designed to overcome the difficulties which have bedevilled the Australian economy for so long. I agree with the Treasurer that the Budget debate is an occasion not only to review the course of the economy but also to assess prospects and problems for the year ahead. Today I wish to draw to the attention of the House and the Government a serious problem which has faced us for some time and yet has remained unresolved. It is a problem that the Treasurer should understand. It is the problem of how to make ends meet when you are taxed unfairly and provided with precious little assistance towards the cost of maintaining those dependent upon us. Many of the questions I have asked in this House and many of the speeches I have made have demonstrated my deep concern for the well-being of Australia's families and of the children in their care. I have called for a national family policy; I have urged the use of family impact statements; I have called for increased family allowances; and I have advocated tax reform in the interests of families. Members will therefore not be surprised that I am using this opportunity tonight to call upon the Government to relieve the desperate plight of many hundreds of thousands of families with dependent children, especially those with only a single income. 
Canberra government is remote. To the majority of people it seems, and often is, removed from the day-to-day problems of Australian families. The unique responsibility of a back bench member of this Parliament is, according to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to bring to Canberra the concerns, hopes and aspirations of our fellow Australians. In a recent electorate talk he reaffirmed, firstly, his view that the Cabinet has no mortgage on wisdom and, secondly, his insistence on the need for an effective government members' committee system. He said: 'It is through this system that all those who support the Government are able to contribute to the central decision-making process of government'. I have been  chairman  of a working party set up by one of these committees. The task we were given was to examine proposals for the reform of income tax and income support schemes now operating in this country. Our work has been comprehensive and thorough. We have identified the principles we have thought should be followed and we have formulated very detailed proposals for the consideration of the Government. My colleagues and I were pleased recently to receive the assurance of the Treasurer- a public assurance- that the proposals of the working party for overcoming the tax disadvantage of single income families would continue to receive very close study by the Government. I hope that it will give similar attention to a number of other important proposals including those which, if accepted, will result in increased family allowances and the abolition of the pension income test. 
Tonight I want to concentrate on a matter that the Treasurer is studying. In summary, it is the proposal that spouses should be allowed, if they wish, to split their incomes for tax purposes and be taxed as if they were in a partnership under which the income is shared equally. It is a proposal which has wide support. When its general concept was reported in the Press I received letters of support from all parts of Australia. There is a steady stream of favourable comment on radio talkback programs and in letters to the editors of newspapers. A recent gallup poll showed that 64 per cent of the Australian community favoured the proposal. Over recent months I have often been asked: How can it be achieved without costing the Government more than it can afford and without increased taxation for many? Tonight I will explain how it can be done without raising anyone's tax, or by increasing only the tax payable by those on high incomes who are now paying less than their fair share. So that concerned members of the public can analyse the proposal I must give some technical details. I therefore apologise to those who enjoy the more entertaining type of speech on the Budget. 
This proposal was formulated because of our concern for Australia's families. The problem of family income support for children should not be confused with the relief of absolute poverty. Although there has been an undeniable increase in living standards for every Australian, a disproportionate part of that increase has accrued to households without children. The relative position of families with children, especially those with only one income, compared with other households, is worse today than it has been for a long time. The introduction of the family allowances and the tax changes in 1 975-76 were positive steps in the right direction. But except for these moves the erosion of public support for families has continued for at least two decades. Their position is continuing to deteriorate rapidly. As a country we lag behind many others in family policies and family income support. The financial pressures facing families are insufficiently recognised. For many the situation is now desperate. The need for action is urgent. Reform is a necessity. If we are to give families the support they need we must establish the goals we wish to pursue. Then we must take bold, imaginative and inovative steps to achieve them. 
Welfare politics in Australia today is currently dominated by powerful lobby groups representing the interests of the aged, the invalid and the veteran. Likewise, tax politics is dominated by powerful groups which seem to care more for general tax reduction than the attainment of a fairer and more equitable tax system. This insensitivity to fairness and equity is perhaps due to the fact that many of their supporters are able to minimise their tax liability under the present system. Family lobby groups must become more influential and press more strongly the interests of the family, so that tax and social security policies are reformed. The aim of these policies should be to ensure that the standard of living of a family with children compares favourably, or at least not intolerably badly with a family with no dependent children or with that of a single income man or woman. Until now, the Australian system of taxation and social security has had comparatively little effect on levelling out the fluctuations in income requirements associated with an individual 's family life cycle. For some time the principle of social justice has not been explicitly recognised in the Australian wage system. In 1 974, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission made it quite clear that the Commission does not see itself as a social welfare agency. He also declared that it was the Commission's view that 'the care of family needs is principally a task for governments'. Notwithstanding this clear statement, governments, both Liberal and Labor, have gone on pretending to themselves and to the public that a breadwinner's wage is adequate, firstly, to keep a family with children above some ill-defined poverty line and, secondly, to enable it to cope with the increasingly expensive task of giving children a fair start in life. 
Our tax and social security systems must not be used only to safeguard individuals and families against unpredictable and catastrophic loss of income or to enable the chronically disadvantaged to maintain a decent standard of living; they must also be used to assist individuals and families to redistribute their lifetime income from the peaks of relative affluence to those periods of relative poverty which are today putting families under so much stress. It is only by considering the systems of taxation and social security together that rational and equitable results can be achieved. So long as the two systems are separate and one is based on the individual and the other on the family unit, no patching up will be successful and our income support arrangements will be more costly than they should be and our taxation system will remain unfair. 
The present tax and social security system contains many serious inequities and mean anomalies. They are too numerous for me to mention tonight. To overcome them we must harmonise and where possible integrate the two systems. The first essential step is to use a common unit of assessment for determining tax liability and entitlement to cash payments. The unit we adopt should be one which takes into account the situation of those who pay, those who receive and many who do both, not only as individuals but also as members of families or households. This we should do because the welfare of any individual is a function not so much of his own income but of the combined income of the family or household of which he or she is a member. 
The major problem of our present system of taxation is that families of the same composition and total income are required to pay substantially different amounts in tax. At present, a family's tax liability is not assessed according to taxable capacity. It is largely determined by the proportions in which each spouse earns the family income. Two-income families pay much less tax than the family in which one spouse is the only breadwinner. For example, single-income families with incomes under $16,608 pay $707 a year or $13.60 a week more in tax than twoincome families with the same family income. Where the household income rises that tax advantage in favour of the two-income family rises to $60 a week. Families paying the top rate of tax, if they can split their income, can save up to $7,500 a year. The present tax system is one of the chief causes of relative poverty and even hardship experienced by the majority of families with children. It takes insufficient account of family commitments. It regards most expenditure of a dependent spouse and dependent children as a way in which taxpayers choose to enjoy their after-tax income and not as a measure of the increased needs of the family or its reduced taxable capacity. It does not treat families alike. Surely the taxation system should be neutral, unless special tax incentives are intentionally being used to influence people in the way they behave. A family should be taxed according to its ability to pay. The proportion in which the income is received by one or both of its breadwinners should be largely irrelevant. 
The Treasurer himself has stated publicly that the present taxation system falls far short of the objectives of equity. Although I know he would like to, apart from a few band-aid cures, economic conditions so far have not yet enabled him to tackle the major causes of taxpayer revolt. It is wrong that tax cuts should be available to those who can arrange their affairs so that they can split their family income but denied to those who cannot or choose not to do so. In spite of the glaring inequities of the present system there are many defenders of the status quo. They may press for tax cuts across the board, thinking that that will help. Tax cuts given in this way will not provide the answer to the problem facing family taxpayers. It is essential that any future reductions in the community's income tax burden should be the result of tax reform rather than across-the-board tax cuts. In this year's Budget the Government decided to reduce rates of tax by abolishing the 1.5 per cent surcharge from 1 December. Whether to abolish the surcharge or to restore indexation or to reform the tax structure involved a political decision. 
I must say that had it been my decision I would have made the bold, imaginative, and in some respects tough decision to bring equity back into the tax system. The Budget outcome would have been the same. The deficit would have been as proposed by the Treasurer but the structure of the tax system would have been altered. Spouses would have been allowed, if they wished, to split their incomes for tax purposes. The desired overall level of income tax collections would have been achieved by sensibly reviewing and appropriately adjusting tax thresholds and tax rates. The special position of taxpayers who live alone and that of sole parents would have been recognised. 
Had such a reformed taxation system operated from 1 December, the standard rate of tax could have been reduced to the level proposed in the Budget and the tax-free income available to taxpayers with dependent spouses and those living alone could have been raised to the level that would have applied had those levels been indexed. Substantial tax cuts would have benefited those taxpayers whose needs are greatest and those whose taxpaying capacity is now heavily overburdened. Some taxpayers, mainly those in the higher income brackets, would have been liable for increased taxation. This would have been necessary on grounds of fairness and would have resulted in two-income families paying the same proportion of their incomes in tax as singleincome families. 
Because there are many who are reluctant to embrace a reform which has an adverse paypacket effects on some taxpayers even though it would give substantial tax cuts to the deserving, consideration of the proposed reform was deferred. In view of this reluctance there appears little chance of these far-reaching and just reforms being introduced in one move. But optional family income splitting could be phased in. This must now be done and it must be done before general indexation is restored, lt should be well known to all that I am a strong advocate of the principle of tax indexation. It imposes a valuable discipline on governments. It keeps them honest, it requires them to legislate for tax increases and prevents them from using inflation as a substitute. But the introduction of indexation in 1976 was premature and it was an outmoded and inequitable tax system inherited from the previous government, that was indexed. As a result, reform has been retarded; but now that indexation has been suspended, let us keep it that way until we have a tax system that is fair to all taxpayers and seen to be fair by them all; otherwise, tax minimisation will and should become the proper concern of every family. There are no grounds on which those who put their family's interests first in this way can be called tax avoiders, except perhaps by those who are blind to the inequities of the present tax system. 
In phasing in reform, we should have two aims: Firstly to reform the tax scales in such a way that no taxpayer pays more tax on the same money income that he does under the present tax scales, and secondly to reduce progressively the proportion of income paid by single-income families by way of tax until it matches the proportion which is now paid by two-income families with the same household income. These two objectives can be achieved by the selective reintroduction of indexation. At first, indexation should be applied only to the assessment of tax payable by families who are disadvantaged by the present tax law, sole parents and taxpayers living alone. Selective indexation should continue for a new optional family tax scale until it places single-income families in the same position as two-income households who split their incomes under the present arrangements. Taxpayers living alone should have a tax free income 20 per cent higher than that which is now the standard tax threshold and sole parents should have a threshold 40 per cent higher than the standard threshold. 
The phasing in of these reforms would be facilitated by the introduction of a new optional family tax scale. Under it, spouses, if they consider it to be to their advantage, would be given the option of being taxed on a notional partnership basis. At the present time, the per capita income of a taxpayer and his dependent spouse which is tax-free, is $2,837 compared with $3,893 per capita for members of a family splitting their income. At current inflation rates, indexation on the optional family tax scale without interruption since the last adjustment would mean that, within three years, the amount of taxfree income available to all families would be unaffected by the proportions in which the spouses earn the family income. 
Within this period also, those living alone and those who are sole parents would have a tax-free income in the correct relationship. As the thresholds in the new family income tax scale rose as a consequence of indexation, at first 1 V4 million single income households would receive substantial tax cuts and later more would do so. The benefit would go first to those who are low income families and their gain would be proportionately greatest. However, if the Government were to index the tax scales it could accelerate the rate at which the new family tax system was brought into operation, or it could use that revenue to increase substantially and maintain the real value of family allowances. Only when reforms of this kind have been adopted will families be given a chance of having a fair go. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I take part in this grievance debate to talk on issues similar to those about which the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has spoken. As a South Australian I express to this House my concern about the state of South Australia. The honourable member for Bonython talked about members on this side of the House whom he alleged were knocking South Australia. We are not knocking South Australia; we are knocking the South Australian Labor Government. In spite of what the honourable member for Bonython has attempted to put to this House, the facts are that for a very long time all the economic indicators regarding South Australia have been pointing in the wrong direction. For years the newspapers, not only the newspapers that the honourable member for Bonython criticised so severely, have been saying of South Australia that the party is over. At long last the people of South Australia have recognised that fact. 
The honourable member for Bonython criticised certain advertising that has been used in the election campaign. This advertising has not been placed by a political party. It has been placed by concerned South Australians. Many of them happen to be the businessmen of South Australia. They are not doing it because they believe that South Australia is going well. They are telling the South Australian people honestly and firmly that, if the State continues under the economic management it has had for the last 10 years, its decline will continue. The interests of those businessmen are, in fact, the interests of the whole of South Australia. They are the interests of every person in South Australia who today is either employed or, more importantly, unemployed. If those businesses can be encouraged to expand, more job opportunities will be created. South Australia, which in recent months has had a relative decline in the number of job opportunities being created compared with those being created in other States, will turn the other way and new opportunities will be created. What is needed for South Australia is a catalyst, a green light, for further economic expansion. That opportunity will be denied if the present Labor Government remains in office. On Saturday next South Australians will have their chance to indicate where they want the State to go. The polls that have been taken over the last few days indicate that South Australians realise what the cause of the job rot in South Australia has been. It has not been a Canberra Government; it has been the South Australian Labor Government. All its policies have sapped the State of economic vigour and have destroyed the confidence of South Australia to the point where there is now a crisis of confidence in that State. 
The Premier of South Australia called the election the day after the Federal Budget. He did so because he had made up his mind that he wanted to hold an election campaign in which he would bash and criticise the Fraser Government. But the Budget did not do the things that Premier Corcoran thought it might do. He has been sadly mistaken. Despite the fact that he embarked upon this Canberra bashing exercise, the South Australian people have realised that that is an old trick which is used by people who know that things at home are in a bad way. The South Australian people have seen through the smokescreen. They have recognised that the seriousness of their position is due to the policies of the Corcoran Government. They now understand that their future is in their hands and that they must in the major poll that will take place on Saturday next make a choice which will determine whether South Australia is to continue in economic decline or whether its opportunities are to be bright as they are for the rest of Australia. 
-I have authorised it myself. What I am saying is the truth about the present situation in South Australia. The honourable member for Bonython talked about the differences in South Australia at the margin. It is those very differences that are affecting South Australia so seriously. It is the marginal differences that are making the difference between prosperity and economic difficulty. On Saturday the South Australian people will have the opportunity to make up their minds and to ensure that they have a change of direction by the election of a Liberal Government. When Premier Corcoran called the election he endeavoured to criticise Canberra by saying that $7 out of $8 of taxes are collected by the Commonwealth Government. 
It is not true. That is an exaggerated figure. Everyone knows that a large proportion of taxes are collected by the Commonwealth but everyone also knows that $40 out of every $100 of personal income tax collected is returned to the States. What is important for South Australians to recognise is that they get a larger per capita share than most other States. In fact, South Australia receives $168 per head more than Victoria does. Canberra returns to South Australia under the income tax sharing arrangements $487 per capita. Yet in spite of the fact that we get $168 per head more than the State of Victoria and an amount nearly as great in excess of what New South Wales receives, the Corcoran Government is constantly criticising the Canberra Government because it does not have enough funds to fulfil its programs. The advertisement said that the Corcoran Government wanted to tell the Canberra Government to back off. It wanted to tell it presumably to reduce taxes. Yes, we would like to reduce taxes, but where is  Mr Corcoran  prepared - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) What was the amount of income tax due by individuals and outstanding as at (a) 30 June 1978 and (b) 30 June 1979. 
What sum outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was collected during (a) July 1979 and (b) August 1979. 
What sum outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was outstanding as at (a) 30 June 1978 and (b) 31 December 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) What was the amount of income tax due by companies and outstanding as at (a) 30 June 1978 and (b) 30 June 1979. 
What sum outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was collected during (a July 1979 and (b) August 1979. 
What sum outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was outstanding as at (a) 30 June 1978 and (b) 31 December 1978. 
Does the Acting Treasurer recall the Treasurer giving me an assurance that income splitting tax proposals designed to ease the tax disadvantage of single income families would receive close study from members of the Government? To enable this to be done have officers of the Taxation Office and the Treasury been asked to examine the proposals? If so, have they commenced work and, if not, when will work begin? When does the Acting Treasurer expect that the Treasurer will receive reports from each of these Departments? Further, as the Treasurer is a member of the Social Welfare Policy Committee of Cabinet, will the Acting Treasurer ask the Treasurer whether he will also refer the proposals for analysis and report by the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat which was established by the Government to co-ordinate development of welfare policy? If not, why not? 
-I do not want to detain the House for more than just a few moments. I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  in the light of the advances made in this legislation whether he would have an in-depth inquiry made into the qualifications of members of the merchant navy. I understand the conventional wisdom and explanation given as to why members of the merchant navy have never been granted the service pension. What I am asking for, in the light of the time that has elapsed since the war, is that the justification for their exclusion from receiving benefits be fully examined and there not just be a regurgitation of the previous answers given. I think that the time has come when the members of the merchant navy who served during the war and would qualify if the benefits were extended to them should have the reasons for their previous exclusion thoroughly reviewed and reassessed. 
I want to take part in this debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80. 1 firstly want to say how effective I think the experiment of having Estimates committees has been. I am afraid that 1 must take issue with my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  because it seems to me that if we were to pursue the old procedures we would have had substantially less opportunity to debate the Budget and the Estimates taken as a whole. On this occasion every minute spent in an Estimates committee was an extra minute in which the honourable members of this House had the opportunity to consider the actions of the Government and the Estimates contained in the Budget. If we had the traditional form of Estimates debate, we would have had speeches of 10 minutes in length and no opportunity to examine or discuss- I think that is the way I prefer to put it- with Ministers, and through Ministers their officials, some of the underlying reasons why we are spending money in certain areas. 
I want to stress that those Estimates committees are a part of the Parliament. They are subject to privilege and open to the public. Their debates are recorded in  Hansard  and are available to members of the public, just as are the debates of the House. I think that the conditions of accommodation for the committees are somewhat wanting, but I am aware that  Mr Speaker  is conscious of the need for increased capacity to handle the committees of the House in the way in which they have met this year. I found it very valuable to have had the opportunity of raising a number of issues and assessing for myself whether the Minister or, through the Minister, his officials have been sensitive tq changes going on within our society and to see whether they have an appreciation of the need to make an assessment of the effectiveness of the expenditure  of the taxpayers' money. We would not have had that opportunity in a debate in this House. 
Therefore, I think that it would be a useful exercise- I hope that someone will have the opportunity of carrying it out- to examine the Estimates debate and list the number of different issues that were identified by both Government and Opposition members and to trace those issues from this year forward to see the extent to which the Government and the bureaucracy may have been influenced by the sensitivities of honourable members in a way in which in the past it has not been influenced. I am confident that as a result of the way in which the Estimates committees were conducted this year, we will have more effective government and more sensitive government because of a more efficient and appropriate interaction between the elected representatives of the people and those who are there to administer the laws that this Parliament passes. 
Of course, there were some defects. We all had to learn the procedures of the committees. The decision was taken very late. A lot of the material that would have been useful to us some two or three weeks in advance, came to us rather late. I think that those who prepared the information for us are to be congratulated on the extent and detail of that information that they gathered in the very limited time available to them. I turn now to a matter that my friend, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  raised. I refer to the report of the inquiry into the urban environment conducted by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I, too, want to express a concern that that report has not yet been commented upon by the Government. I think that it was a very significant and important report and needs to be fully considered by the Government. 
In discussions in the relevant Estimates committee I asked a question of officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I sought to find out whether consideration was being given or had been given or whether there had been any changes in the administration of the Committee called the Location of Australian Government Employment Committee. Since that Committee met I have received a detailed reply to the question I asked. I seek leave to have that reply incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows: 

Parliament of Australia 
House of Representatives 

 Mr Wilson, M.P. 
-In the light of the Committee's report I am concerned that more work needs to be done by departments because of the House of Representatives Estimates committee recommendations. As a result of its inquiry the Committee found:   a lack of perception in a number of departments and instrumentalities, including those with key policy responsibilities. 
A lack of perception as to the impact of the decisions by departments on the way in which the urban environment is affected. In regard to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet the Committee had this to say: 
The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet stated that one of its primary roles is to ensure that proper coordination and consultation takes place between other Commonwealth Departments. The Committee believes - 
This was its finding-  that the Department adopts a passive approach to coordination, particularly where there is no specific executive direction to bring the parties together in an endeavour to resolve the conflicts arising from vertically organised departments with specific functional responsibilities. The Committee believes that the Department should adopt a more positive approach in ensuring that the full implications of Commonwealth Government decisions and policies are drawn to the attention of the Government. 
From the reply that I received it would appear that at the present time the Department has not as yet undertaken that more positive role. The Department referred to a report that was incorporated in its reply. That reply states: 
From this it will be seen that all departments and authorities have a responsibility for ensuring that their own activities are well administered with proper regard for coordination with other departments. 
The very point of the House of Representatives Estimates committee's recommendations was that unless there is a department with the active responsibility of ensuring co-ordination between those departments their perceptions will be far too narrow and decisions will be taken with adverse impacts upon the urban environment. I urge the Government to consider the report. I know that it has been before an interdepartmental committee. I hope that the time will come  when we will get a positive response to the recommendations of that committee. If we do not get a positive response we will find this sort of thing occurring. I made some representations to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in respect of a building being built in my electorate by the Commonwealth Trading Bank. The response that I received was as follows: 
Against this background, the Corporation - 
That is the Commonwealth Banking Corporation-  has been and remains of the opinion that the Council 's - 
That is the local government body-  requirements in relation to car parking spaces do not accord with reasonable and accepted standards. In view of the extreme urgency of the project, the Corporation decided to proceed with the building even though this issue had not been resolved. 
Who is the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to say what are adequate requirements for parking within a municipality's area of responsibility? I thought we believed that in Australia we should have a three sphered system of government. I thought that local government had been given the responsibility of this level of urban planning. I thought that the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, like any other trading corporation, should be made subject to the same rules and regulations that any private enterprise bank is subject to if building something of similar proportions. 
It is of very great importance to the development of our cities and towns that the Government read and reread the report on the urban environment and that it take note of that report. The Government should agree to as many of the recommendations of that report as is possible and practicable. But to do that it will have to be prepared to lift itself out of the narrow perceptions that are created by vertically organised departments. The Government will have to look at the impacts in terms of society as a whole. One of the weaknesses in our present system of organising government at all levels is that vertical organisation of departments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 November 1 979: 
1 ) How much of the $73 1 m income tax due by individuals and outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was collected during September 1979. 
How much of the $223m income tax due by individuals and outstanding as at 1 April 1979 was collected during (a) July 1979, (b) August 1979 and (c) September 1979. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 November 1 979: 
1 ) How much of the $294m income tax due by companies and outstanding as at 30 June 1979 was collected during September 1979. 
2 ) How much of the $ 1 74m income tax due by companies and outstanding as at 1 April 1979 was collected during (a) July 1979, (b) August 1979 and (c) September 1979. 
