I ask a question of the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It relates to the storm disaster at Kin Kin in Queensland last Sunday. Will he advise what assistance, if any, the Commonwealth can give to the Queensland Government to help the people who have suffered damage and loss in this disaster area? 
The procedures in relation to matters of this nature are denned quite clearly. The basic responsibility for all matters within the States rest with the States themselves. At Premiers' Conferences and Australian Loan Council meetings financial assistance and ordinary revenues are provided for the States. In certain circumstances, such as where a State considers that some extraordinary injury has been done or that a calamity has occurred, there is a line of communication between the Premier of that State and the Prime Minister, seeking special assistance. As I indicated yesterday, in answer to a question asked by  Senator O'Byrne  about unemployment in Tasmania, the situation is that normally such experiences would be the responsibilities of the States and would remain so but where a Premier of a State considers that a storm, tempest, calamity or disaster has caused a situation out of the ordinary the communication is from the Premier of that State to the Prime Minister, seeking the Commonwealth's intervention to provide assistance. Therefore the responsibility would be on the Premier of Queensland to do that very thing if he thought it appropriate. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister I remind him that last Wednesday I asked him a question regarding the possibility of Commonwealth aid in respect of storm damage in the Kin Kin area in Queensland. The Minister indicated the procedure necessary to obtain Commonwealth aid. I now ask the Minister whether there are any new developments he can report in this matter. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is true that last week  Senator Bonner  asked me a question about damage caused by a severe storm which had struck in the Gympie and Kin Kin area. I set out for the benefit of  Senator Bonner  and other new senators the approach necessary in such cases from a Premier to the Prime Minister. I believe that senators of long standing understand the procedure. Such an approach is made when a Premier feels that the relief required is beyond the State's revenue resources and Commonwealth aid is required. Yes, I have been informed by the Prime Minister that the Acting Premier of Queensland has committed to writing representations along the lines of those made by  Senator Bonner.  The Commonwealth recognises the tragedy that occurred. The representations have been made in the traditional way by the Acting Premier to the Prime Minister and are now under consideration. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, concerns the Government's announcement that Australia's Vietnam involvement is to end in a military sense. Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Lavarack Army Barracks at Townsville will continue to play an important role in the nation's defence after Vietnam? 
It is with very deep and mixed emotions that I participate in the debates of
              this Parliament for the first time. I feel overawed by the obvious education of
              honourable senators within this august chamber. I assure honourable senators that I
              have not attended a university or a high school and, for that matter, I do not know
              that I can say that I have spent very much time at a primary school. But this does not
              mean that as a Senator from Queensland I am not
              able to cope. I have graduated through the university of hard knocks. My teacher was
              experience. However, I shall play the role which my State of Queensland, my race, my
              background, my political beliefs, my knowledge of men and circumstances dictate. This
              I shall do, through the grace of God, to the benefit of all Australians. For more than
              20,000 years my people have loved this country. They have appreciated its beauty and
              its capacity to provide for human needs. Throughout that long period my race developed
              many traditions and one generation has passed on to another a respect for these
              traditions. Traditions are preserved and honoured in the Australian Parliament also.
              The awareness of these traditions and the long and illustrious line of people who have
              upheld them in the interests of freedom and democracy makes me humble because I
              realise the privilege and the double responsibility which has been bestowed upon me.
              At the same time I am sure that honourable senators will agree that I could hardly be
              blamed if I confessed to a feeling of pride at this time. 
First and foremost I participate here as an Australian citizen. Through the valour
            of its fighting men in two world wars and by the vigour and skill of its leaders
            Australia has earned an honoured place in the world. As an Australian, I am concerned
            for the future of my country, for the welfare of its people and for the quality of life
            that they enjoy. However I am conscious of the fact that I am the first member of my
            race to participate in parliamentary proceedings. I am proud that, however long it has
            taken, this form of participation has been achieved. To those who took the decisions
            which resulted in my being here today, I proffer my thanks. I am very conscious of the
            fact that the opportunities which are now mine to share in the representation of
            Queensland would not have been mine if it were to for the resignation of Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin, D.B.E. Since 1947 she well
            and worthily upheld Queensland Liberal Party principles in this place, first as a
            senator and committee member and more recently as Minister for Housing. I am sure that,
            as Australian High Commissioner to New Zealand, she will further enhance her illustrious
            career.
I turn now to the business before the Senate, which is, in part, consideration
            of the Government's Budget proposals for the 1971-72 financial year. As I understand
            it, the Budget is the most important business to come before the Parliament each year.
            It involves huge sums of money and has far reaching effects on every Australian - from
            the pensioner hoping for an increase in his or her fortnightly cheque to the
            manufacturer worrying about the impact of the budget on his undertaking. The
            Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee watch over accounting and expending,
            but in the final analysis electorates and States must rely on their Commonwealth
            parliamentary representatives to ensure that the economy runs as smoothly as possible,
            particularly at times such as these when inflationary pressures within and uncertainty
            without make long range predictions extremely difficult. I have no doubt that honourable
            senators have been able to devote much of their attention to this task, particularly
            since they adopted the practice of referring the annual Estimates to separate committees
            at which Ministers and their departmental officers can answer questions relating to the
            items of proposed expenditure. I have no doubt that in the course of this my short term,
            or an additional term according to the will of the citizens of Queensland, it will be my
            privilege to serve on these committees and in this way participate fully in the
            important discussions on proposed expenditure. 
There must be many ordinary Australians like myself who have struggled with the
            problems of feeding, clothing and educating a family and with trying to balance a
            domestic budget. Their minds must boggle at a national budget which has a total
            estimated expenditure of $8,833m, a sum which the Treasurer
            (Mr Snedden) told us is about $728m or 9 per cent greater than the Budget
            last year. The staggering size of the national Budget indicates the rapid rate of
            development of Australia. I am sure all honourable senators will agree with me when I
            say that I regret that there are problems presently facing rural industries, but I find,
            looking through the Budget, that the Government has recognised these and has provided
            for them by including payments to rural industries amounting to at least $275m. It is
            hoped that these problems will be overcome. Past growths suggest an even better and more
            prosperous future for this country in the days ahead. Having lived and worked in the
            western sections of Queensland, particularly on cattle and sheep stations, I am not
            unaware of or unsympathetic to the problems and heartaches faced by men on the land at
            this time. I assure the Senate that it is my determination that, during my tenure of
            office, I will be moving constantly through this area to enable me, by personal contact,
            to give aid wherever it is necessary. 
At some other time, either in this chamber or at committee meetings, I shall comment
            about several items in the Budget. At this stage I comment briefly about 3 items of
            expenditure set out in Statement No. 4 attached to the Treasurer's Budget Speech.
            Item No. 3 refers to the National Welfare Fund, the expenditure from which increased in
            this Budget by $217m to $ 1,694m. This figure includes increased welfare services in
            the form of pensions, maternity allowances, child endowment, unemployment and sickness
            benefits, rehabilitation services, sheltered employment allowances, funeral benefits,
            deserted wives benefits, personal care subsidy, national health services, nursing home
            benefits, handicapped children's benefits, payments to public hospitals for
            pensioners, homes savings grants and matters such as these. The Commonwealth
            Government's commitment for these expenditures is an acknowledgement of the right of
            every citizen to share in the prosperity of this nation. I relate the commitment to a
            portion of the most important speech of my career to date. I claimed that my experience
            of this world showed that 2 qualities are always in need - understanding and compassion.
            I stress that these attributes must not change because, if they do, the solution to the
            problems that we as a people face with regard to
            social services and particularly with regard to aged pensioners, the fruits of whose
            labours we enjoy today, will be all the more difficult to obtain. I believe that social
            services are not a charity to a less worthy section of the community. They are the means
            by which persons who have special handicaps or who are unable to join the work force
            because of age, domestic responsibilities or handicaps have a claim on the nation's
            resources. I believe that no longer is there any stigma or condescension about the
            receiving or disbursement of payments from the National Welfare Fund. 
Item No. 7 refers to the expenditure on Territories, excluding Papua New Guinea, and
            shows an increase of $40m. Item No. 10 shows an increase of $41m for Other Expenditures.
            Both items are of special interest to me because they include considerable sums for
            Aboriginal advancement, mainly for special programmes of housing, health and education.
            These 3 items are of supreme importance to the welfare and quality of life of all
            Australians, none more so than Aboriginals. Mr
            President, I crave your indulgence and the indulgence of honourable senators
            in that for a very short time all within me that is Aboriginal yearns to be heard as the
            voice of the indigenous people of Australia. For far too long we have been crying out
            and far too few have heard us. I stand humbly in the presence of honourable senators to
            bring to their attention what I believe to be the lot of those of my race in 1971. It
            would be an understatement to say that the lot of fellow Aboriginals is not a
            particularly happy one. We bear emotional scars - the young no less than the older. By
            and large we are unskilled with, here and there, a breakthrough. In early days we were a
            very simple people. My people had simple needs. We saw no need for agriculture or
            industry because nature provided our needs for over 20,000 years. 
Less than 200 years ago the white man came, I say now in all sincerity that my
            people were shot, poisoned, hanged and broken in spirit until they became refugees in
            their own land. But that is history and we take care now of the present while, I should
            hope, we look to the future. Following the advent of the white man came a transitional
            period which still exists today. Then began to appear the emotional scars; the
            psychological wounds became a torment from which by and large we have still not
            recovered. The Aborigines today find themselves drifting between 2 worlds, accepting
            some of the white man's virtues, but alas, also many of his vices, subconsciously
            retaining to some extent the intricate pattern of relationship, the wonderful gift of
            sharing one with the other to such an extent that it infringes on the laws of white
            society, or Australian society as we know it today. 
Whilst I commend the Government for its awareness of the need for improved
            programmes of housing, health and education, I want to take this opportunity to point
            out that in common with all citizens, Aborigines of Australia are most certainly not
            looking for handouts. They have suffered enough from the stigma of paternalism, however
            well intentioned it may have been. I am sure that they will respond to efforts being
            made to enhance their self-esteem, particularly through the programmes of social
            development and vocational and general education. 
I want to emphasise the urgency of greater Aboriginal participation particularly in
            the areas of social development and vocational and general education. I believe there is
            need for a programme wherein Aborigines, and not necessarily academically qualified or
            young Aborigines, but armed with understanding and compassion plus the ability to
            communicate, can be fielded to liaise with Aborigines and all relevant government
            departments and organisations working in the field today. 
I wish to make only 2 more points. Firstly I express my appreciation of what the
            Government is already doing to make pre-school education facilities available for my
            people. I appeal for even greater efforts to be made in this area, particularly by State
            governments as well as the Commonwealth Government. In case I appear to be biased on
            this subject I shall quote from a recent book by Mrs
            Lorna Lippmann. She wrote: 
One normally expects a deprived minority, living in poverty in a degraded physical
              environment to have a low educational standard. Obligingly, Aborigines live up to that
              expectation in every part of Australia. 
Professor D. W. McElwain, whose research into the cognitive ability or
            intelligence of Aborigines in Queensland is well known, has concluded as a result of a
            study of 1,000 subjects: 
There are no inborn or genetic limitations on the basic intelligence of
              Aborigines.
Mrs Lippman also wrote: 
Pre-schools are all important to ensure that Aboriginal children do not begin
              school impoverished as to language and background. Instruction within the school needs
              to be individualised and ungraded (so that the child will go at his own pace in each
              subject). Extra curricular activities should be encouraged so that the student can
              excel in some field of his own choosing and know the joy of learning, of creativity
              and of success. 
I turn now to consider Aboriginal enterprises. As Mrs Lippmann has pointed out, every able bodied person
            wants to succeed in some field of his own choosing and to know the satisfactions which
            come from creativity and success. Economically viable Aboriginal enterprises offer just
            these satisfactions. I congratulate the Government on the policy decision to further
            these enterprises and I appeal to those who are responsible for developing further
            policies and implementing them to use every means available to help them along.
            Australians are noted for their willingness to take a risk. I ask for a greater degree
            of gambling on Australia's indigenous population who, since the arrival of the white
            man, have to a degree gambled just on existing.
It is to be regretted that artifacts
            which have been identified with Aborigines should now be mass produced overseas and
            imported into Australia at such prices and in such quantities that the indigenous
            manufacture of such artifacts as boomerangs is no longer economically feasible. I wonder
            whether it would be possible for some sort of tariff protection to be applied to
            boomerangs at least, so that cheap imitations from overseas would not undercut the
            authentic Aboriginal article in such a way that, as has occurred, it would be difficult
            to find anything but an imported imitation in retail stores and shops which cater for
            tourists.
It may also be possible to bring down legislation to restrict the manufacture
            of boomerangs within Australia to those people who own it as their special heritage -
            the Aboriginal race. I have made inquiries about the possibilities of a patent over the
            boomerang and have been advised that as it is by no means a recent scientific invention
            it would not be possible for anyone to take out a patent for it. Likewise, I understand,
            the law of copyright would apply only to individual designs on a artifact. I have been
            told that the word 'boomerang' cannot even be registered as a trade mark as the
            term is probably too deeply entrenched in the English language to be legally registered
            now as distinguishing the goods of particular manufacturers or traders. If some solution
            to this problem can be found it may be one small way of fostering an Aboriginal
            enterprise which I know surely has considerable potential. 
Mr President and honourable senators, although my
            entering the Senate was a unique event in Australian history in that apart from being a
            senator for Queensland I am also an Australian Aborigine, I was not at all surprised to
            find that there is absolute equality. I thank you, Sir,
            and honourable senators for this, not on my own behalf but as a
            representative of the indigenous people throughout Australia. In conclusion I desire to
            clarify one point. From this year onwards who are to be termed the indigenous people of
            Australia? In my experienced opinion, all persons who desire to be so classified,
            regardless of hue of skin, and who have flowing in their veins any portion, however
            small, of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island blood, are indigenous people. It does not
            necessarily follow that the degree of one's emotional scars matches the darkness of
            personal pigmentation or that the lightness of one's skin necessarily indicates a
            lessening of knowledge of and belief in Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island culture and
            tradition. 
I have listened earnestly to the debate on the Budget. I have heard criticism of the
            Government and I have heard favourable comment. I say sincerely that I am proud to have
            an opportunity to stand in the Senate. Perhaps it is a little too early for me to really
            play a very great part in the debate on the Budget. But I am proud to be here and I am
            proud of the fact that I have been accepted in the Senate as an equal by all other
            senators. That is what I want to see achieved in our wonderful country. We live in a
            wonderful country. Recently I gave an address, the title of which was 'This is a
            Grand Country'. It will be a grand country only while those who sit in this chamber
            and in another place really and truly believe in this aim and work towards achieving it.
            I believe that we should forget our petty differences and really work for those who have
            put us here and have entrusted the nation to our hands. I thank you, Mr President, for the courtesy with which you have
            listened to me. I look forward to my association with my fellow senators. I trust that
            our deliberations will be, in fact, for the true welfare of all Australians. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts seen  a report from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries stating that Queensland's kangaroo population was healthy and flourishing? Has the appropriate Commonwealth department any evidence that this is so? If so, does it apply to all mainland States? Finally, is there any evidence that the red kangaroo is rapidly becoming extinct in western Queensland as was claimed recently? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, ls he aware of a report by a union official in Darwin that Aboriginal stockmen in the Northern Territory are living in shocking hovels? Will the Minister ask bis colleague to examine that allegation and, if it is correct, ensure that early action is taken to improve their living conditions? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Why have invitations been extended to mining interests generally for the mining of bauxite in the Arnhem Land reserve at Marchinbar Island when the Prime Minister announced on 6th May 1971 that Aborigines would be given reasonable preference in mining prospecting and exploration? Would it not have been more in keeping with policy to have offered the Aborigines of Elcho Island and Yirrkala, some of whom were born on Marchinbar Island and consider it clan territory, the first opportunity to form a company to develop the bauxite mining? 
As I see the National Health Bill (No. 2), it has 2 main purposes. The first is to increase Commonwealth benefits for patients in approved nursing homes. The second is to increase from 50c to Si the charge made for prescriptions written under the national health scheme. In my opinion, the assistance to nursing homes and the charging of a nominal fee for prescriptions are a major help to people on very low incomes and lo the poors the sick and the aged. Assistance to nursing homes is virtually a new measure, having been in existence for only a few years. It is one of the many aids provided by the Federal Government to the aged, and should be looked at as part of a broad programme. 
Unfortunately, most people think of pensions as being the main form of or the total assistance to the aged, but this is not so. There are many additional aids. These are of great value. I instance the free medical attention from doctors of one's own choice, free pharmaceutical benefits, free hospitalisation, homes for the aged, subsidies for nursing homes and free hearing aids. I believe that the subsidy to be paid to nursing homes is a major step forward. It assists not only aged persons but also their relatives. In the past many families have had to make great sacrifices. They have suffered heartache in trying to nurse and look after their aged relatives in their own homes. The cost of nursing homes to these people has always been beyond their means. 
The Commonwealth Government originally introduced a daily subsidy of S2 for ordinary nursing care, or Si 4 a week, and a subsidy of $5 a day or $35 a week for intensive nursing care. This, together with the age pension, has enabled families to avail themselves of nursing homes. Following the introduction of the subsidy, the numbers of nursing homes and the demand for them increased. The standards insisted upon by the Federal Government have caused more homes to be built and the standards of care in them to be greatly improved. I believe it is of great importance that the Government should insist on high standards in approved nursing homes, not only in the condition of buildings, the cleanliness of beds, and the quality of the food, but also and even more importantly in the quality of the nursing care through a genuine humanitarian approach. 
We must make sure that our old people preserve their dignity and are treated with kindness, devotion and a great deal of respect. Perhaps I am more conscious of the need for respect because I come from a race of people who have always placed great importance on the welfare of their aged and everything that is done for them. Perhaps today we as a people are losing something in that area and we should look very closely to discover our omission. Because of the rise in costs, the Government proposes in this Bill to increase the daily rates to S3.50, or $24 a week, for ordinary patients, and to $6.50 a day or $45 a week for intensive care. It is important that the authorities maintain generous standards in classifying patients eligible for nursing care. It is also important for the Government to insist on the highest possible quality of nursing care. 
I repeat that this measure will help not only aged and sick persons but also their relatives. Properly supervised it will allow aged people to live in pleasant conditions and to receive good food and adequate medical attention. I realise that probably some nursing homes will seek to exploit this scheme and to obtain higher profits, butI am sure that they will be few. Such people must be located and, if necessary, deregistered and not allowed to carry on. Most nursing homes, particularly those run by religious bodies, perform their duties with great devotion and understanding. 
Last year the pharmaceutical benefits scheme cost the Government about $160m. The cost has increased rapidly over the years. The increased charge of 50c a prescription will save the Government about $25m a year. The cost of the scheme will still be huge but the benefits will be great. We must keep in mind that whether the Government pays or we pay out of our own pockets, in the end the taxpayers have to pay the full account. I am quite sure that governments have no means of inventing money. They must get it from the taxpayers. If the people have a national health scheme, they have to pay for it. By charging a nominal fee of$1 a prescription and by bearing the bulk of the cost out of taxation, the Government has helped those people who are forced to live on lower incomes. I believe that that is a humane approach. 
Speaking as a senator for Queensland, I hope that as we increase our national wealth we can do a great deal more to expand our social services and to help the poor, the sick and the aged. I want to assure you,  Sir, and  my colleague, that I will be working earnestly towards that goal. I believe very strongly in social justice. We must do everything possible to ease the burdens of the elderly and their relations. Because I have these beliefs I strongly support the Bill before the Senate. 
 Are they improving that land? 
Leaseholders are compensated not for the land but only for structural and visible improvements on it. Naturally it does not pay anyone to take the improvements away and in most cases the improvements are sold to incoming tenants for a lot less than they are worth. These are things that have to be stated. It is interesting to note that in most cases Australians just have not bothered to invest or are not prepared to invest in the northern part of Australia. This is country which a lot of northern Australians regard as having a climate made up of 6 months of summer and 6 months of hell. That is their description of this country and they would not think of living there. If overseas people such as Americans are prepared to go there, good luck to them. 
There are 2 Australians besides  Sir William  Gunn who have been enterprising, and who have been trying to develop the northern part of Australia. One of them is  Mr Bryce  Killen, who has been trying to get Australian capital. It is interesting to read an article which appears in tonight's issue of the Sydney 'Sun' newspaper which carries the headline: 'Pastoral Float a Flop'. The article states that the public share issue offered by Northern Agricultural Development Corporation Ltd closed last night 50 per cent under-subscribed.  Mr Killen  was trying to raise this money in Australia. He is the man with the Katherine meatworks and other enterprises in the north. However, he was able to obtain less than 50 per cent of the amount required. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to a recent speech by an honourable member in another place and an article that appeared in yesterday's 'Australian Financial Review', both of which suggest that the Minister intends to allow State police to tap and intercept telephone communications? Will the Minister assure the Senate that he will do nothing that will infringe individual civil liberties in any way, but rather will tighten up the loopholes that it has been alleged exist in the telephone communications legislation? 
I wish to speak in support of the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Bill 1971. As the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents in the Senate the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has explained, the purpose of this Bill is to extend the highly successful Commonwealth school library programme for a further 3 calendar years. This is to he done at an estimated cost of $30m. When this legislation is passed and the programme is completed in 1974 the Commonwealth Government will have provided in a 6-year period S57m for school libraries. Surely this is a most significant achievement by the Government. By 1974 S57m worth of capital buildings, books and specialist equipment will have been provided in schools by this Government. 
To me the most important and most pleasing aspect of the programme set out in this Bill is that it applies equally to government schools and non-government schools. I make no apology to the Senate for saying that 1 strongly believe that all sections of our education system must be assisted with such essential aids as libraries. As honourable senators know, our education system is based on the existence of government and non-government schools. Therefore I believe that it is the responsibility of the Government to assist all schools, irrespective of whether they are government or non-government schools. 
Naturally ! realise that the bulk of government funds for education must be devoted to schools operated by the Government, but at the same time this Government has recognised that: there is a need to assist other schools, particularly in the provision of facilities such as libraries and science blocks. This Bill seeks to assist all sections of our education system us previous legislation of this type did when it came into force in 1969. Surely evidence of the success of the school libraries scheme lies in the fact that it is now to be extended and the total funds available to the States are to bc increased. This should not. come as a shock or surprise to the Parliament. As we all know, tremendous changes have occurred in education in Australia in recent years. One of the areas in which change has taken place is school libraries. Not many years ago school libraries were considered to be luxuries and not essentials. 
When I went to school - and I can assure honourable senators that I did not spend very many years at school - the school library was unheard of, but today it is regarded as an essential part of our education system. 1 believe that the Government has acted very effectively to meet the needs of schools in the sphere of libraries and science blocks. The Government has also acted to meet needs that have arisen to provide many other educational facilities. 1 have had an opportunity to move around my home State of Queensland over the last few years. I have visited many of our secondary schools and have been able to see the results achieved and what they have meant to students, particularly to children of my race. I believe that they have gained great advantage from the provision of school libraries since this system came into being. However, I am a little concerned about how much of this expenditure will be used in the far western areas of Queensland. I appreciate that much is being done in the field of education in the cities and large towns, but in the outlying areas children do not have the same opportunities as those in the cities and more settled areas where television and many other amenities are provided. I believe that whatever can be done for children in the outback must be done. I am proud to support the Bill and I commend it to the Senate. 
I support the Bill because when I look at what has been done in the past 3 years particularly by the Federal Government I find that there has been a gradual increase in the amount of money allocated to the States to cover such important areas as housing, health, education, employment, social work and various other projects throughout Australia. I have had personal experience of many of these problems that are being faced by members of my race. I have reared a family. I know what it is like to struggle as many of my race are struggling at the moment. I cannot go along entirely with the criticism that has been levelled at the Queensland Government. The Commonwealth Government has made a grant of $3,038,000 for Aboriginal advancement in Queensland. When I compare this with the figure of about $6,450,000 in the Queensland Government's budget, I think it is unfair to level such criticism at the Queensland Government. 
There are many fields of Aboriginal welfare for which I believe our Government must take a greater responsibility. This nation has not only an obligation but also a responsibility to the indigenous people of this country, and I would like to see much more done for their welfare. I believe that there is a great need for greater involvement by Aboriginal people in Aboriginal affairs. There are many other problems associated with housing, health and education. I know from personal experience that, because of a lack of education and training, Aborigines are facing many problems. What is urgently needed is the employment of competent Aboriginal people who can communicate with their own people and advise and assist them in all these fields. I have been told that because of a lack of education and academic ability this cannot be done. However, I do not believe that in their field education is of the greatest importance. Provided that Aborigines are competent, know the problems of their own people and will work, they can be of great assistance. It does not matter how much money we pour into this area or how we legislate, unless the Aborigines are able to help themselves all our efforts will be in vain. 
As I said earlier, I believe that what is needed is a greater amount of Aboriginal involvement in their own affairs. I hope that the Government will look at this very closely in the near future because much depends on it. Unfortunately other things creep into the problem, and unless we do something about them now and look at them in a more realistic and sensible way we will have many more problems in the future. I support the Bill and I thank the Government for what it is doing in the area of Aboriginal welfare. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Why have invitations been extended to mining interests, generally, for the mining of bauxite in the Arnhem Land Reserve at Manchester Island, in view of the Prime Minister's announcement on 6th May 1971 that Aborigines would be given reasonable preference in regard to mineral prospecting. 
Would it have been more in keeping with the Government's policy to offer the Aborigines of Elcho Island and Yirrkala, some of whom were born on Manchester Island and consider it their clan territory, the first opportunity to form a company to develop the bauxite deposits. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development inform the Senate of the present stage in the planning of the proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay?  In  any present planning are continuing steps being taken to ensure the preservation of the environment and to prevent pollution from spreading to one of the few areas of the New South Wales coastline which remains substantially free from pollution at the. moment? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. In view of the danger of the crown of thorns starfish to the Great Barrier Reef, which is one of the great wonders of the world, is any thought being given to the employment of Torres Strait Islanders, who are known as some of the greatest skin divers in the world, so that they may be employed to gather the crown of thorns and thus remove this danger to our Great Barrier Reef? 
I do not want to take up a great deal of the time of the Senate this evening. On 9th March this year  Senator Keeffe  mentioned something that had happened to an Aboriginal female in my State of Queensland. He referred to a girl who had been put into gaol allegedly for wearing a mini skirt on a mission station, namely Doomadgee in the north of Queensland. In his address to the Senate,  Senator Keeffe  also made some very strong statements concerning the Queensland Government and its treatment of Aborigines in that State. I was shocked when he made those statements. I was disturbed about some of the allegations he made. Being an Aboriginal and being very concerned about the plight of members of my race, not only in my own State but in the Commonwealth at large, I was very disturbed that such an allegation should be made against my State, its Government, the responsible Minister and the Director of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland. Naturally enough, 1 made my own investigations into this matter. 
I learned to my dismay that the allegations made by  Senator Keeffe  were unfounded and were a fabrication in many respects. I have before me a Press clipping 
After I have spoken about this matter,  Senator Murphy,  perhaps you or  Senator Keeffe  can counter the claims that I make. Until that time you might be kind' enough or decent enough to bear with me and listen to what I have to say. 
 I beg your pardon,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  but am I supposed to wait until  Senator Keeffe  arrives in this chamber? 
 I am making a statement here because I have made investigations into the allegations that were made in this place. I am sick and tired of people using the Aboriginal people for political gain. It is about time that I, as an Aborigine, had something to say concerning the matters that affect members of my race in this country. 
Would the honourable senator be kind enough to listen to me in silence until I have had my say? Then, if he has something to say, maybe he will be able  to  counter the claims I make. I was saying that I made investigations of these matters. I have a Press statement here which contains headlines in big print which read: 'Mystery over claim of mini skirt'. I have found that the person who was mentioned in the Senate on 9th March this year claims that she was not gaoled because she wore a mini skirt on a mission settlement in Queensland, namely the Doomadgee mission. She was told by the Aboriginal people on that settlement that mini skirts or skirts worn so short were regarded by the Aboriginal people in that community as immoral. 
The indigenous people of this country prior to the coming of the white man were a deeply spiritual and religious people. With the coming of the white man our culture was broken down in many respects. We find that with the coming of the white man the beliefs of Christianity were embraced by many of the Aboriginal people of this nation. At Doomadgee mission the people have embraced the faith of the Brethren. This is a very strict faith. Its adherents do not believe in many of the things that we believe in, such as dancing, going to the movies and other things that they regard as being of this world. The Aboriginal people have embraced this faith. They believe there are many things that should not be used by the mission's community. One of the things that the Aboriginal people themselves complained of was the wearing of mini skirts because they believed that this was immoral. I have the statement of the person concerned.  Senator Keeffe  claimed that she was a girl. I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and honourable senators, whether a female of the age of 29 years could be regarded as a girl or as a woman. This woman admits that she was not gaoled but was cautioned by the councillors of the community that to wear a skirt of that length was regarded by the Aboriginal people as being immoral. She was asked to lower the hemline of the skirt, as other members of the female community had done. This woman did not agree with the councillors; so she left the mission station and went to live in Mt Isa. 
I have here a signed statement of the girl concerned. As a matter of fact, the person that was claimed by  Senator Keeffe  to be the one involved was not the woman responsible for this act. It was another person entirely. Here again, we have an honourable senator in this place making claims when he has not done sufficient research into the matter and is not completely in possession of the facts of the case. The person who was referred to by  Senator Keeffe  was not the woman who was actually told that she should not wear a mini skirt at Doomadgee mission station.  Senator Keeffe  also mentioned other matters. He said that the Aboriginal people of Doomadgee mission station were eating food that contained a lot of weavils and maggots. When I went into this matter and back to the time when the person who complained that this was happening, I found that the person was 14 years of age. When I related this to the age of the person and the time when this incident took place, I found that it happened back in 1955. I would say that in 1955 there were many communities such as this one in Queensland that may have had weevils in the flour and the porridge and whatever else may have been the case because at that time Queensland was under the regime of the Australian Labor Party. It is strange to me that when I look at this matter which occurred in 1955 I find that the mission station referred to was run by the christian and God fearing people. They were church people. At that time they had no support from the Queensland Government. The mission station at Doomadgee was supported by the goodwill of the people of Queensland, those people who went to church every Sunday and put their 2 bob in the collection plate. 
At that time the Queensland Government did not support the mission station. There were about 4 government settlements in Queensland, namely Cherbourg, 
Woorabinda, Palm Island and Yarrabah. The Labor Government certainly did not give any financial support to the mission station; it was supported by the goodwill of the God fearing people of Queensland. Let us go back to look at the Labor Party's attitude towards Aborigines in 19SS during its term of office. 
 I am talking about the attitude of the Australian Labor Party towards the Aboriginal people in 1955. At that time, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland - a Labor government Minister - referred in one of his statements in Canberra to the Aboriginal people of Queensland as the Queensland niggers. At that time, I as an Aborigine, and as many other Aborigines in Queensland, were referred to as niggers by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland. 
Yes. I remember living in Queensland when many people referred to Aborigines as niggers. I remember the time in Queensland under that regime when I was working on cattle stations and I had to eat my meals at the woodheap, when cattle station owners treated Aborigines with a stirrup iron. But this was under a Labor government. I find lt quite humorous that various members of the Australian Labor Party say they will do so much for Aborigines. As a matter of fact, I have seen the Labor Party policy in regard to Aborigines in Queensland. But I fail to find in it a statement that was made by a very prominent member of the Australian Labor Party in the other place. I am referring to  Dr Douglas  Everingham, the honourable member for Capricornia. In one of his statements, he gave his way to treat the Aborigines today and to overcome a lot of the problems that we face. I have the statement here. The statement was made by a man who in Queensland is regarded by the Aboriginal people as the knife man. He is called the knife man because he believes the only solution to the Aboriginal problem in Australia is sterilisation. I happen to be an Aborigine.  Dr Everingham  sits in the other place, and his policy for Aborigines in Queensland and for the Aborigines of Australia is that they should all be sterilised. I wonder why he advocates this kind of policy. Perhaps he is a little afraid because today the Aboriginal race has the fastest birth rate of any race of people in the world. I wonder whether the Labor Party is just a little bit afraid that perhaps the Aborigines might one day build up to such a stage that they will be too many in number for the Labor Party to be able to control and use for political purposes, such as they are using today. I feel quite sure in my own mind that I as an Aborigine could well fill all the galleries of this Parliament with young Aborigines and not so young Aborigines if I were inclined to use Aborigines for political purposes as I find the honourable senator from Queensland apparently is doing today. 
I wonder whether the honourable senator who was making such claims about Aborigines in Queensland remembers a particular case in that State in which he was going to show the Queensland Government, the Director and the administration on Palm Island exactly how to handle Aborigines. He took under his control and into his very very capable guiding hands a young Aboriginal woman who was creating quite a deal of trouble on Palm Island because of her misbehaviour. He said to the administration on Palm Island: 'You people do not know how to handle Aborigines'. He had her exactly 3 days and we have not seen the girl since. We do not know what happened to her. He was not able to help her. I am not creating a stir. I am quoting facts and figures. I live in Queensland and I am very sick and tired of people who would use the indigenous people of this country to further their own political ends. It is time that we started looking at this problem of the indigenous people. It is time that we started to look at our indigenous people as human beings who are entitled to the same opportunities and privileges as any other people in Australia. When we get down to the stage at which we use Aboriginal people for our political gain, I think it is time that we- 
On 9th March I sat here and listened in silence to a member of the Opposition, because I was shocked and disturbed at some of the allegations he made. But when I went home to my own State and started to investigate these things I found that he was far, far wrong. The honourable senator mentioned the names of people. But these people have denied what he has said in this House. I think it is time that he was shown up for the fake that he is. Thank you,  Mr Deputy President. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior been drawn to an article which appeared in this morning's "Canberra Times' and which criticised the Government's refusal to help Aborigines in the Northern Territory to testify at an inquiry into health services in the Territory? Will the Minister instigate inquiries into this matter to ensure that Aborigines in the Northern Territory are given government assistance in order to make a contribution to this allimportant inquiry? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a statement by  Dr J.  F. Cairns, a prominent Opposition spokesman, calling for yet another Vietnam Moratorium demonstration? Will the AttorneyGeneral give the Senate an assurance that the rights of individual citizens will be protected and that industry and commerce will not be disrupted by the supporters of North Vietnam and other outside influences? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to an article appearing in the 'Age' of 5 th April 1972 directed to the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders which states that venereal disease is widespread among Aborigines of the Northern Territory? Can he assure the Senate that his Department will investigate this claim to ensure that my fellow Aborigines in the Northern Territory will be given every medical help in this matter? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I have seen the article in the 'Age'. In fact, I have it in front of  me.  I want to respond to the article by saying that there is no evidence that the incidence of venereal disease in the Northern Territory poses a threat to the survival of the Aboriginal race. It is true that there has been an upsurge in the incidence of venereal disease of various kinds in the Northern Territory in recent years. This is a reflection of an Australia-wide, even a worldwide trend. The steps that have been taken in recent years to combat the problem in the Northern Territory include the introduction of provisional notification which means that a doctor gives notification before final confirmation of the existence of the condition. This greatly facilitates any contact tracing that may be necessary. In addition, direct reporting from laboratories to the Department of Health of all positive tests is now required. In the field of health education a specialist has been appointed whose duties include the exploration of ways in which the Aboriginal's knowledge of the dangers of venereal disease can be increased. Health education pamphlets are issued in several Aboriginal languages and free treatment is available. I assure the honourable senator and the Senate that the Government is well aware of the seriousness of the problem and will continue to take positive steps towards its control. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether he is aware that the Director of Health in the Northern Territory recently gave evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment to the effect that the situation in relation to Aboriginal health in the Northern Territory was not improving. Has the Minister any comment to make on this matter? 
I feel that I would like to make a statement in some depth on the matter. It has become clear that in order to lower the levels of infant and child morbidity and mortality among Aborigines in the Northern Territory it is necessary to have an improvement in the general socio-economic status of Aborigines. To a high degree that would go beyond my Department's direct responsibility. The need for social progress is particularly evident in such areas as personal and community hygiene and sanitation. An awareness of the causation of disease is one of the requirements of healthy living in larger communities. It is a very complex problem. I do not think that I should at question time go beyond saying that, in collaboration with the other departments which are involved, I am working hard on the matter, f would like to have some discussions with, in particular the welfare section of the Department of the Interior before I proceed any further by way of giving an answer in depth. It is a complex problem. It is a "latter which is a source of continual anxiety to us all. What has to be understood is that whilst one can do all the nest things in the world in the way of providing medical care the real essence of the problem which exists in the Aboriginal community, particularly in relation to babies, is one of prevention of disease. That is the essence of the thing. Prevention is something which, with all the best goodwill in the world, is nol directly within my responsibility. But, as a responsible Minister for State. I would not walk away from any responsibility ro do all that I can to get to the source of the problem, which is really and truly in the area of prevention of disease. If we can get that going in a much more effective manner than it is going at the present time we will be automatically able to take the weight of the load off the medical services, which are overbearing on the medical resources of the Commonwealth in the Territory up to this point of time. 
As a representative in this chamber of the people of Queensland, I am pleased indeed to support the Bill now under discussion because of the tremendous benefits that it will bring to my home Stale. When I first took my seat in the Senate some 12 months ago. 1 was under the impression that I would be supported in this chamber by 9 colleagues from Queensland. But. after listening to the various speakers this afternoon and this evening, I am quite confused by some of the statements that have been made. It seems that some of the speakers from the other side of the chamber are ashamed of Queensland. 1 am sorry that they feel this way about Queensland because I certainly have nothing but pride for my State and for the achievements of the Government of that State over the past 15 years. 
 Some noises are coming from the other side. 
They seem to be trying to confuse the issue. They have confused the issue quite considerably this evening in discussing Queensland. I sincerely hope that the Queensland people will take note of what some members of the Opposition have had to say tonight. I refer particularly to some of the remarks of  Senator Georges.  He seemed to imply that the people of Queensland should do away with their free hospital system. 
 He seemed to imply that. From the ramblings that he was carrying on with, it seemed that he was- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! For several reasons, I cannot uphold the point of order. In the first place, no grounds exist for the point of order. If the honourable senator claims that he has been misrepresented, he has the right to raise the alleged misrepresentation at the conclusion of the honourable senator's speech. Secondly, with so much noise coming from certain quarters, it would have been quite impossible for me to hear what  Senator Bonner  was saying. Other members of the Senate I am sure would have experienced the same difficulty. In their own interests, 1 would request honourable senators to hear  Senator Bonner  in some degree of silence. 
 As I understand it,  Senator Georges  was condemning the Queensland Government for the free hospital system when the Queensland Government had approached the Commonwealth Grants Commission for this extra financial assistance. He said that because of Queensland's free hospital system Queensland was broke. That to me indicates that he is not in favour of the free hospital system in Queensland. I hope that the people of Queensland will take note of those remarks, particularly in view of the statement made by the shadow minister for health in the Labor Party in which he talked of introducing a particular type of free hospital scheme which, as I understand it, would cost the people of Queensland between 50c and 70c extra from their pay envelopes for something which they enjoy already and to which  Senator Georges  seemed to object in some of the statements that he made this evening. 
To return to the Bill, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  informed the Senate that the purpose of this Bill was to authorise the payment to the Queensland Government of $9m in the current financial year. This action follows an application by Queensland to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for assistance under a scheme which, I understand, was first introduced by the Lyons Government in 1933. The fact that this scheme was introduced in 1933 and that it has taken until 1972 for the Queensland Government to see fit to seek a grant for assistance under it speaks volumes for Queensland. 
The Commission has recommended the acceptance of Queensland's proposals and the Commonwealth by this legislation now being considered agrees to this assistance. As a Queenslander - and a proud Queenslander - I am most grateful to the Commonwealth Government for this action. I say quite clearly that in my opinion the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government are to be congratulated for this most positive step.  Mr Deputy President,  I seem to be under quite a barrage of interjections from the Opposition. Apparently the Opposition does not agree with what I have to say. This, to me, is quite alarming considering that the barrage is coming from fellow Queenslanders. 
This action by the Queensland Government follows as a direct result of the invitation that was extended by the then Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to the Premiers of the 4 less populous States during the 1970 Premiers Conference to apply to the Commonwealth Grants Commission if they felt that the necessity existed for this course of action. The Queensland Government - one might well say that it will be the Government for many years to come, perhaps even for decades, despite the rather fine political speeches heard tonight; I might even term them part of the election campaigning that has been carried on tonight by some Opposition senators from Queensland - applied to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for special assistance. 
I certainly am in full accord with what it has done at this time. I understand that the Government of South Australia has made a similar decision following the invitation extended at the 1970 Premiers Conference. I believe that, from now on, Tasmania and South Australia will be recipients of special assistance from the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I would not dare to say that the other less populous States should not be entitled to this assistance and should not apply as the Queensland Government has seen fit to do. I congratulate the Queensland Government for its action. If this happens, 3 of the 4 eligible States then will be in receipt of special assistance which will compensate them for such problems as a lower capacity to raise finance and the considerably higher costs of providing government and other essential services. 
Probably one could accurately say that the Commonwealth Grants Commission functions to correct what one might term the imbalances between the smaller States and New South Wales and Victoria. One would not need to be an Einstein to realise that, because of their larger populations, those 2 States would have less difficulty in raising revenue from their own resources. The Government of Queensland faces special difficulties in meeting the needs of its citizens. Coming from Queensland and having had the opportunity to move around that State, I can only term it as the most decentralised State in the Commonwealth. Consequently there is a greater demand for government services such as schools, hospitals, roads, harbours and ports, and government buildings. In States such as New South Wales and Victoria, where there is a much greater concentration of population, it stands to reason that the essential services I have mentioned can be provided much more cheaply. There can be fewer hospitals because they can be larger. That applies to many other services that are provided by State governments. 
I did not interrupt when  Senator Georges  was talking. I have a few notes and I prefer to refer to them. If the honourable senator has any objection to make about that, I suggest that he make it to the Chair rather than to me. One thing I can say is that, even if I am reading from notes, they certainly have not been prepared for me by the Trades and Labour Council or the Trades Hall Council. They are my own notes, which I prepared in my office. Under the federal systemat least, as I understand the federal system under which we are operating - the States have a very important role to play in the development of the nation and the people for whom they are responsible. Over the years the Commonwealth has taken over many of the taxing powers and means of raising revenue that were formerly under the jurisdiction of the States. 1 am not saying whether this was the correct thing to do; that is beside the point tn this debate. The fact is that the States now have fewer means of raising finance then they had before. This trend has been accompanied by greatly increased Federal responsibilities for services of government. However, the smaller States of Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland as a result have suffered much more than the more populous States of Victoria and New South Wales. As I understand it, the purpose of the Grants Commission is to compensate the smaller States for this inadequacy. It is therefore quite proper that my own State, Queensland, should fall into this category. 
As I said before, these grants will greatly assist the Queensland Government and the Queensland people. Even  Senator Georges,  though he is making a lot of noise tonight, will benefit from this measure. But that is not to say that Queensland is, as has been hinted at in this debate by Opposition senators, by any means in a desperate plight financially. From the information that 1 have been able to gain, it is obvious that Queensland is doing very well in comparison with the rest of Australia. There are a number of obvious reasons for this. The Queensland Government, under the very able and competent leadership of the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and the Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, is doing very well. Those gentlemen have skilfully managed the State's finances and its economy has expanded greatly. The State's economy has been transformed from one that used to be almost entirely reliant upon primary industry to one that is very soundly based, with strong and growing mining and manufacturing industries and commerce. This is something of which all Queenslanders should be proud. Even Opposition senators, if they were able to stop and look rationally and intelligently at the situation, as I have been able to do in the time that I have lived in Queensland, would be proud of its achievements. 
The proper use of Queensland's mining resources has provided new job opportunities for many workers in Queensland. It has opened up new towns such as Blackwater and Moura. This has all been brought about by mining and the manner in which the Country Party-Liberal Party State Government has encouraged it. The mining industry has also been a vital factor in the establishment of new ports and harbours, the building of new roads and railways, and the development of secondary industries, particularly at Townsville and Gladstone where expenditure has run into tens of millions of dollars. This development is no mean task in any man's language. It has gone on throughout Queensland, particularly at Mount Isa and Cape York, north Queensland, central Queensland, and the area around the Brisbane metropolis. Industries are springing up like mushrooms. When I heard criticism of the Queensland Government by honourable senators opposite this evening. I wondered whether they came from Queensland or from Timbuktoo 
Probably they are, though in Queensland we do not mind hillbillies. I am quite fond of them myself. This development has gone on throughout the length and breadth of Queensland. In my short space of time as a representative of Queensland I have been able to move around that State and to see this development at first hand. I only wish that other senators who have spoken this evening, particularly those on the Opposition side of the chamber, would also exert themselves and move around Queensland and see what is going on. I wonder whether they live in Queensland or around Canberra. I am not quite sure, but I understand that some of them live around Canberra while trying to represent the State of Queensland. 
Any responsible government must provide additional services to meet the needs of workers and their families engaged in development schemes such as those proceeding in Queensland under the present State Government. It is very encouraging to see what is happening in my State. Just as one example, I note that the Queensland Government, since it came to office in 1957, has built 105 entirely new high schools, the majority of which have been built in provincial and country areas. Many of them are the direct result of the mining developments in Queensland. I have not pointed out these things merely because a State election is being held in Queensland this month, although it seems to me to be strange that members of the Opposition said quite a lot in this debate in condemnation of the Queensland Government. I do not intend to make an election speech here. I want to let the facts speak for themselves. I will leave it to the people of Queensland to judge from what I have said in comparison with the speeches of Opposition senators this evening. 
I have tried to indicate that the Queensland Government has been very vigorous in its development work and in the provision of services for the people. In 1957 Queensland's consolidated revenue expenditure was $170m. I ask honourable senators to note that this year that expenditure will total more than $570m. This is a massive increase in any man's language. These are figures and facts that speak for themselves. The additional funds provided under this Bill will be very welcome in Queensland. They will help the State to continue with the task it is facing in its development projects. I think it would be appropriate for me to pay a tribute at this stage to my friend and colleague from Queensland,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the Minister for Housing, who sits in another place. An examination of the newspapers in recent years will show that no-one has been more consistent or more persistent in his advocacy of an application by Queensland to the Commonwealth Grants Commission than the Minister for Housing. I am sure that he has been just as pleased as I have been to see that finally Queensland has agreed to make such an application. I would say that it is indicative of the Minister's very genuine interest in Queensland that he has been so persistent on this matter. As usual, in the long run, persistency pays off. 
Finally, as an honourable senator for Queensland and as a representative of the Liberal Party which forms a coalition in my State Government, I say that it gives me very great pleasure indeed to support the Bill which is before the chamber this evening. Despite the noise and the nonsense which seems to be coming from the other side of the chamber I stand proudly before the Senate as a Queenslander. I am proud of the achievements of my State and of the progress which it has made over the past 15 years. I place emphasis on the past 15 years' because since the LiberalCountry Party has become the Government in Queensland we have seen great progress. The things which are happening in my State are very exciting. I am proud to be part of it. I am sure that the State will greatly benefit from the grant which has been allocated by the Commonwealth Grants Commission for use for the people of Queensland. I most certainly support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to an article in the Press about Aborigines in the Northern Territory who were demonstrating against a police officer? The magis trate hearing the case was reported to have said that the police officer should have fired into the group. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that many people in isolated areas of Queensland are suffering hardship because the airlines cater only for first class accommodation whereas in the more populated areas they cater for both first class and economy class accommodation? Will the Minister have this matter investigated with a view to having the anomaly corrected? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether he is aware that a caravan is parked in front of Parliament House with a sign on it which reads 'Save Lake Pedder'? Has the Minister for the Interior found another loophole in the ACT Ordinance which will have to be rectified during the next recess of Parliament? 
lt gives me great pleasure to speak in this Budget debate. I say that for a number of reasons. The first is that this is a Budget to be welcomed by the Senate, and it is a Budget that from my observations has been welcomed and well received already by the Australian people. The second is that this is a very wide ranging debate and it gives me the chance to talk about some of the problems of the State of Queensland which I have the honour to represent. I might add in passing that I believe I will be representing that State for many years to come. 
Firstly, I want to say something about the Budget. You may recall,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that when I came here last year I confessed that 1 was not fortunate enough to have had a very high academic education. I said at that time that I had attended the school of hard knocks. I have listened very carefully to some of the socalled academics on the Opposition side of this chamber and 1 have come to the conclusion, repeatedly, that perhaps the school of hard knocks is far more useful when one tries to make a contribution to matters that affect this nation as a whole, lt follows that I am not able to engage in an economic discussion on the Budget. 1 would say that like the great majority of Australians I can consider the Budget only in the context of what it will do for our people - and by that I mean all the people in this nation and the nation as a whole. After all, the Budget affects everybody - the taxpayers, the pensioners, the sick, the suffering, the children in our schools, the industrialists, the farmers; in fact, all people in this wonderful country in which we live. 
If anyone doubts the value of this Budget or the fact that it has been well accepted by the Australian people he should study more closely the speech made by the main Opposition speaker in this debate. After studying that speech I think he could find very little to complain about. That is because this Budget will go town in history as one of the best budgets ever presented to the Australian Parliament. As I said before, the Commonwealth Budget affects everyone in this nation. In some years it has affected some people more than others. In other years it has imposed additional taxes on people and on sections of our industry. This year, I believe, for the first time for many years this Budget affects everyone in a very beneficial way. I believe that many people will benefit from it. Taxes are not going to increase; in fact, they are going to be reduced for all general taxpayers. As I understand it - and I have been a working man for many years - this Budget will put more money into the pockets of the working man. It will increase spending in our community. It will benefit business people and our country as a whole, lt may seem strange that from, a Budget in which taxes are reduced many sections of our community will gain additional and, in some cases, many new benefits. In that regard it probably is a unique Budget and that is one of the reasons why I believe the people of Australia have accepted it so readily. 
I am particularly impressed with the new social welfare provisions. I am sure that the people of Australia are impressed also. I believe that the Parliament and the people are indebted to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for the achievements in the social welfare field which were announced in this Budget. I believe that this is an outstanding mark and the beginning of a new era in social welfare services in this wonderful country in which we are so fortunate to live. I believe that the increase in pensions has been welcomed throughout the nation. It follows increases brought in earlier this year and in the last Budget. In the relatively short period of 18 months in which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been in office there have been 4 increases in basic pension rates. From what I can gather, never before in the history of Australia have there been 4 pension rises in such a short period. 
Despite the noise that seems to be coming from the Opposition side of the chamber, this is a record of which I am very proud. I believe it is a record of which this Government also can be proud. Not only have pensions been increased but also the eligibility for pension benefits has been increased considerably. A promise has been given that the means test will be abolished in 3 years - perhaps even less. The Government also has decided to set up an inquiry into the introduction of a national superannuation scheme in this country and into poverty. Surely these are positive proposals in a social welfare field and surely they deserve the support not only of the Senate but also of all people in this nation. 
I want to refer in some detail to the inquiry into poverty which was promised some weeks ago by the Prime Minister. I understand that the terms of reference for this inquiry will be determined on the recommendations of the Minister for Social Services. I think we can feel confident that the inquiry will be carried out in depth and very thoroughly. I have had dealings with the Minister for Social Services for many years and he has 2 very fine qualities which should be recognised not only by members of this Parliament but by ail people. The 2 qualities to which 1 refer are compassion and understanding. He has displayed these things by the tenacity he has shown in bringing about the changes in social welfare that we see today. 
No one would doubt that poverty exists in this country and we have to ensure that it is eradicated. We must do everything possible to bring this about. However, while doing so we must know the extent of poverty in Australia and the reasons for it. I believe that the best way to determine these facts is by an inquiry into all aspects of poverty. I hope that this inquiry will not be restricted to the capital cities but that it will include also towns and country areas. I believe that poverty exists in all parts of this country. Perhaps it exists to a greater degree in country areas than most people realise. I believe that this inquiry is a step in the right direction. I am certain that the authority chosen by the Government to conduct the inquiry will be able to present a report to the Government which will form the basis for a war on poverty in this country. 
There is no doubt that by world standards we live in an affluent society, but there are still areas in this nation that are in need of attention. In my opinion there are still people who are in need of real assistance because of the position in which they find themselves. All too often - perhaps far too often - they get themselves into great difficulties through no fault of their own - through a death in the family, illness, accident, or unemployment caused by retrenchment and automation. I. believe that all Government authorities have a responsibility to assist these people. By means of this Budget and by means of the proposed inquiry into the levels  of  poverty, I believe that the Federal Liberal-Country Party Government is taking a very positive step and making a useful contribution towards assisting those who face hardship and problems in this nation. As one  who  is proud to be a member of the Government earn and as one who I firmly believe will be contesting an election in the next few months,I proudly support the measures that have been promised and that  I  know most surely will be implemented in a short space of time. 
-I will come to that in time. I am quite sure-- 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Withers)  -  Senator Georges,  are you raising a point of order? 
The Budget also makes provision for greatly improved assistance  to  those who are in need of nursing attention, both through assistance to nursing homes and through the medical programme  to  assist financially those who are in need of nursing attention in their own homes. The Minister for Health,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, gave the Senate some 2 weeks ago a very detailed explanation of the new arrangements. I am certain that these new arrangements will be warmly welcomed by the operators of nursing homes and by the people who are in need of home nursing care. At the present time this problem poses a great burden not only on the sick themselves but also on their relatives and the people who are trying to assist them. The new measures,  I  believe, will help to relieve this problem quite considerably. 
I have spoken for some time about the Budget and the matters associated with it. Now I turn my attention to my own State of Queensland. Perhaps the honourable senator who saw fit to interject a moment ago at least will have the common courtesy to bear with me while I mention some of the matters that affect my own State. To me, unemployment at any level or to any degree is bad and quite unnecessary. But it is a fact of life that unemployment exists in every country. By world standards Australia has a low level of unemployment, yet by our standards it is far too high. I hope that it will be reduced in the near future. 
I  am  quite certain that the budgetary measures willhelp considerably to achieve this reduction even though  Senator McAuliffe  may not agree with me. I believe that Queensland can take some consolation from one aspect of the level of unemployment in Australia at this moment, because the level of unemployment in Queensland is lower than that in the other States and, 1 am given to understand, it is even well below the national level. In fact, the level of unemployment is highest, as I understand it, in those States which are at present under the control of Labor governments. Western Australia is a very noticeable example. As I understand it, unemployment in that State is almost double, in percentage terms, the level of unemployment in my State. 
I wonder - I hope that many of the Australian people will wonder with me - what would be the level of unemployment in Queensland were it not for the development that has taken place in recent years throughout the State. Of course, much of this development has been made possible only through the use of foreign capital. While I believe firmly it is quite essential that the inflow of foreign capital be watched very carefully, I think it is very timely also to stress that without foreign capital Queensland would be a Cinderella State and certainly there would be a very high level - I stress the words 'very high level' - of unemployment. There are always 2 sides to the story of overseas investment. We in Queensland should never forget the real benefits and the tremendous growth that it has helped to bring to the sunshine State. But, as I said, there are 2 sides to the story. 1 have tried to bring before the Senate that side which has been most beneficial to my State. That is one of the reasons - it is only one of the many reasons - why my State would suffer were a Labor government to be elected to office later this year. A Labor government would end Queensland's free hospital system; it would drastically reduce the size of our armed forces in Queensland; and it certainly would impede the growth of Queensland. These are facts which cannot be disputed, and I am quite sure they will be revealed further during the coming Federal election campaign in my State as well as perhaps throughout the nation. 
I spoke earlier of some areas of need that I had come across during my brief term of office. I would like now to elaborate on some of these. I have been in this Parliament for a little more than 12 months. During that time I have had the opportunity of moving around my State quite considerably. 
Despite the noise that seems to be coming from the so called academic side of the chamber, I would like to tell honourable senators something of the problems that 1 have found during my tours around my State. I would like to point to some of the difficulties and some of the problems that are being faced by many people living in the outlying areas of Queensland. As honourable senators will probably know, Queensland is quite a big State. The people of that State have faced many problems. 
One of the problems on which I would like to touch relates to a question I asked about 2 weeks ago regarding the provision of economy class air travel for people in outback areas of Queensland. Let me quote an instance. Persons living in places such as Winton, Blackall or Charleville who have to travel by air can travel only first class because that is all the airlines provide. On flights between more populated areas such as Brisbane and Rockhampton or similar cities, passengers have the choice of either first class or economy class. A person living in Blackall can fly only first class; A person living in Blackall who is in need - of specialist medical attention or whose child needs specialist medical attention has to travel to Brisbane to receive that attention. The first class fare from 
Blackall to Brisbane and return is $94.80. On top of that, such a person would have to pay for two, three or even four days accommodation in Brisbane. The accommodation and air travel could set him back about $200. That is what it would cost him to receive the same kind of medical attention as people in the more populated areas receive for probably $5 or $6. These people are not asking the Government to pay their fares. All that they are asking is that they be allowed to claim this kind of expenditure as a tax deduction in their tax returns at the end of the financial year. At the moment all they can claim is the cost of the actual medical attention. They receive the same attention as people in the larger cities receive for a minimum amount of money, but they are out of pocket quite a deal of money. That is one of the problems. 
There is another problem which I believe has to be looked at very closely by the Government. It relates to children of families who live in very isolated ureas and who are suffering because of the problems associated with their education. I hope that 1 and my colleagues from Queensland -  Senator Maunsell, Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Wood  - will be able to approach the appropriate Ministers to do something about this problem. There are other problems in Queensland on which I believe the Budget does not really touch. I hope that I and my colleagues from Queensland will be able to bring these problems to the attention of the appropriate Ministers. The other Queensland senators do not seem to be concerned about those problems. 1 hope that I will be able to do something about those problems in the near future. 
 Senator Georges  will be able to have his say. I am trying to conclude my speech. I hope that all people in this wonderful country will accept the Budget for what it is trying to do for them. 1 am quite happy to support it. I welcome it because 1 believe that it will meet the needs of the people of this nation. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, follows complaints to me from the Flinders Shire Council in north western Queensland about poor television reception. Before the Government undertakes t spend massive funds on the introduction of colour television in Australia, will it take action to improve television reception in north and north western parts of Queensland so that people in those areas will have the advantage of black and white television before anything is done about providing colour television for people in the more populated areas? 
Has the attention of of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to an advertisement appearing in the West Australian' headed 'It's Time for the Truth on Unemployment'? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the figures quoted in the advertisement are accurate? The percentages are: Western Australia. 2.99- 
-! wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Order! Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
I have been misrepresented by  Senator Keeffe.  He said that the statement that I gave to the Townsville Bulletin* was drafted by the Queeusland Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. That is untrue. Also, I have taken exception to some of the things which the honourable senator has said in the north, particularly in relation to a matter that is rather painful to me. The honourable senator used the death of a very fine gentleman to gain political notoriety for himself. I think that is disgusting. 
Is the Minister representing the Posmaster-General aware of the working conditions of commercial radio announcers? Is he aware that their award wage is less than $50 a week, and that this award wage was fixed in 1956? Is he also aware that announcers sometimes work as many as 12 hours a day, 6 days a week, without extra reimbursement? 
1 rise to enter this debate. I do so because I would have as much knowledge as, if not more than, most honourable senators in regard to what my fellow Aborigines were demonstrating against in front of Parliament House earlier this year until such time as the Ordinance was made. Also, I would say that many honourable senators probably recall that when the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  first stated that he would introduce this Ordinance I spoke out very strongly against it - not in the Senate but outside it - and made my thoughts known. At that time I was prepared to move in the Senate for the disallowance of the Ordinance. Since that time I have had the opportunity to make certain investigations and I have learnt that the Commonwealth would have the power to move anyone off the lawns in front of Parliament House without this Ordinance, if it so desired. So I cannot support the motion for the disallowance of this Ordinance because 1 see that it would serve no purpose. If we were to disallow it, the Commonwealth would still have power to move my fellow Aborigines off the lawns in front of Parliament House if they came back there. 
You start doing some research into matters pertaining to this House and matters pertaining to my race before you stand up and try to speak authoritatively about Aboriginal affairs. Allow me, as the Aboriginal in the Senate, at least to speak with some authority on matters pertaining to my race. When my fellow Aborigines set up their tents on the lawns in front of Parliament House they did so to demonstrate against some of the atrocities that have happened to Aborigines since Governor Phillip landed at Botany Bay about 188 years ago. They did not set up the tents to demonstrate solely against this Government. They were demonstrating against all the things that have happened over the years - the shootings, the killings, the taking of the land and many other things that have happened. Like other people, they wanted to demonstrate here. But unlike perhaps the more learned and sophisticated white people they did not come into the halls of Parliament House or into Kings Hall to do their lobbying. They were not sophisticated enough. The only way they knew to do this was to sit out there in front of Parliament House. 
You probably would be one of the people who encouraged them to do just some of the things that happened recently in some of their more violent demonstrations. 

 Senator Georges, I have looked at the draft that has been presented to me by the Parliamentary reporter and the words you recollect are not the words that were taken down. 
The honourable senator probably would prefer to sit in the streets rather than sit in the chamber. 
1 withdraw the words if they offend the honourable senator. 
I was saying,  Mr President,  that my fellow Aborigines were protesting on the lawns outside Parliament House but they were not protesting wholly and solely against this Government. They were protesting against things that have happened over many years and they protested in the way they thought fit. Unfortunately they were trespassing on land. This Ordinance had to be brought in because the Government found that there was a loophole in the Australian Capital Territory ordinance concerned. I did not agree at that time, and I still do not agree today, with the way in which the Ordinance was brought in. I believe that the Parliament should have had the opportunity of debating the matter. Now the Ordinance has become law and, as a law abiding citizen, I stand by it and I hope that my fellow Aborigines will stand by it also. 
I do not intend to take a great deal of time, but while I am on my feet I want to refer to some of the remarks passed by an honourable senator who purports to support Aborigines. He made some remarks, when speaking about Aborigines, which are very offensive to me. He said that apparently no survey had been made to determine the extent of venereal diser.se amongst Aboriginal people. I would like him to know that there is just as much venereal disease per head of population amongst white people; perhaps there is a darned sight more. 
I am not happy about the percentage of it; nor should the honourable senator be happy about the percentage of it amongst his own race. But why bring the matter up in this place and hold Aborigines up to ridicule for one's own political gain? The honourable senator thinks he will gain a lot of political mileage out of the Aboriginal situation. Unfortunately Aborigines are suffering from what he is doing. They are being led by the nose to do certain things that they would not do otherwise. Aborigines, in their own way, always have been very law abiding people. They have never broken the law. They have laws that I guarantee white people would not be able to live under. If white people had had to live under the laws of the Aborigines when living in accordance with their tribal ways, they would have had a tomahawk or a nulla nulla over their heads. Sometimes I wish that those kinds of laws were enforced even today because then we would not be facing some of the problems that we are facing. 
Much has been said in this debate about my fellow Aborigines protesting on the lawns outside Parliament. One honourable senator said that they should not have been allowed there in the first place because it established some kind of precedent. The Government was very foolish, in the first instance, in establishing the precedent by allowing a man to go on a starvation campaign or some kind of fast outside Parliament House. That man was not even an Australian. He was a foreigner protesting for a foreign cause and he was permitted to stay there for many weeks. 
Just prior to the rising of the Parliament for the last recess I went out on to the lawns outside Parliament House and spoke to my fellow Aborigines there. I had many discussions with them. I had started negotiating with the Minister to get some kind of permanent lobby for them in Canberra. I think it would be far better for me to pursue that line of action than to support the disallowance of this Ordinance. Disallowance would not benefit my race in any way at all. I know from travelling around Australia, and particularly from travelling around my own State, that 90 per Cent of Aborigines in my own State, and perhaps throughout Australia, were not in favour of the idea of our young men camping on the. lawns outside Parliament Honse. They believed that it was most undignified. Aborigines always have been a very dignified race, particularly until the white man introduced grog and things like that. Since then they sometimes have lost their dignity and pride. However, Aborigines generally did not agree with our young men camping there. They asked me to come to Canberra and to talk more along the lines of the Government providing for Aborigines a building in Canberra which they could use for a permanent lobby. As 1 said before, J was negotiating with the Minister about this. I was also negotiating with my fellow Aborigines on the lawns outside Parliament House. Unfortunately other people did not want this to happen. I am quite sure that they felt that this was too peaceful a way of settling the whole issue. They advised my fellow Aborigines not to listen to anyone negotiating for a permanent building here.. 
I will be continuing that line of action and I will be talking again with the Minister for the Interior and, I hope, with the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  about providing in Canberra a permanent building which can be used by Aborigines as a permanent lobby. Aborigines could then come to Canberra for conferences, discuss matters that they want to discuss and pass resolutions that could be brought before the Government and before the Parliament. This would be helping them in the way that they want to be helped. 
This was being negotiated. I believe that it could have been successful if some of the so-called friends of the young Aboriginal people who were camped on the lawns outside Parliament House had left them alone. I would like to ask a question. I was told by my young Aboriginal friends who were camped outside: 'Don't worry. Senator; everything is all right. The Labor politicians are all going to link arms right around the embassy when the police come to try to take it down, and they will protect us'. I cannot recall seeing on the television programme which screened that incident any Labor men standing with arms jinked. A lot has been said by many people about how they can help the Aboriginal people. I think the best way that people can help the Aborigines is by letting them work out their own problems and by letting them bring their problems to the appropriate people in authority who can do something about them; not by waving banners or walking up and down the streets and shouting. These things should be done through the proper channels - and there are proper channels. 
Why have the political parties of this country not encouraged Aborigines to become politically involved and to find their way into Parliament? I believe that it is in the Houses of Parliament that decisions are made, not on the lawns outside. It seems strange,  Mr President,  that so far there is only one Aboriginal in Parliament. I hear about all the wonderful things that members of the Labor Party are going to do for Aborigines. One most important thing that they have not done as yet is given an Aboriginal the opportunity of coming into Parliament, sitting alongside them and putting up a case where it  will  do the most good. 
The Liberal Party happens to have just one more than the Labor Party has, or any other party as a matter of fact. 
I would go further,  Mr President,  and say that I will be sitting here for a long, long time to come. I would hope that I would have the pleasure of seeing one of my fellow Aborigines sitting either on the Government benches or on the Opposition benches - I do not mind which. But I would like to see encouragement, guidance, training and counselling given to Aborigines so that they can come in here and take their place in Parliament. Although I will be trying, to the best of my ability, to bring about a situation where my fellow Aborigines will have a permanent lobby in Canberra, I do not feel that at this time I can support the motion to disallow the Ordinance because, as I said earlier, it can do no good for my race whatsoever. The Commonwealth still has power to remove Aborigines from the lawns in front of Parliament House if they were to set up their tents there again. Finally, I want to say that I never did subscribe to it being called an 'embassy' because, as I understand it, one has an embassy in a foreign land. I deny emphatically that I or any other Aborigine is a foreigner to this wonderful land of Australia in which we live. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland)-  Mr President,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the shortage of petrol supplies in Queensland? Is he also aware that it could be another 6 months before the situation is back to normal? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the situation in Queensland is the direct result of the industrial dispute caused by the Trades Hall some months ago? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for National Development give the Senate an assurance that everything possible is being done to restore fuel supplies to Queensland following the shortage of supplies from the refinery in Brisbane last week? Will he also ask the Minister for National Development to see whether any further action can be taken to speed up deliveries, particularly to rural areas, where a continued shortage could have a serious effect on grain harvesting? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I rise to support the Bill now before, the Senate and to reject the amendment. I am proud that the Government through this legislation is introducing a programme to assist the States financially for education purposes in order to ensure that all Australian children will obtain the best education that is possible. I wish to speak mainly about the independent schools. I support the concept of independent schools. I am proud to see that the Government in its wisdom has seen fit to make money available to our independent schools. 
Let us consider the situation in respect of independent schools. If the Commonwealth Government had not seen fit in its wisdom to support independent schools, many of them would have been forced to close. Considering the matter sensibly we recognise that in Australia in excess of 2,000 independent schools cater for more than 600,000 students. What would happen if those independent schools closed down? The parents of those students would have to send their children to state schools. The cost to the taxpayer of educating these additional students would be astronomical. This would affect not only the wealthy man. But the additional taxation required to meet this cost would affect everybody alike, including the working man. I believe in the right of parents to send their children to whatever type of school they choose, br that school an independent one or a government one. 1 believe that that is the right of every Australian parent. 
Much was m: de tonight of the fact that wealthy people send their children to independent schools. 1 know of many people who work for a living, who are not wealthy and who wish to give to their children the opportunity to attend an independent school, whether this he for religious or other reasons. These people work very hard and save their money in order to send their children to independent schools. At the same time, they support government schools through the taxation that they pay which is at the same rate as that imposed on other taxpayers. I do not agree with the argument put by the Opposition that it is only the children of wealthy parents who attend independent schools. 
I am happy to support this Bill because I believe that the Federal Government has a responsibility te make available financial assistance to the States for education purposes. I am pleased that that is the purpose of this Bill. I know of many independent schools in Queensland which have been supported by the hard work of parents. Mothers, fathers and even children have worked to help te enable those schools to continue. The parents involved are taxpayers in common with their fellow citizens. I believe that the schools which they support are entitled to some financial assistance from the Commonwealth to ensure that their children enjoy the same facilities as those provided in government schools. I believe that independent schools should be supported. Consequently, I have great pleasure in commending this Bill.  I  reject the amendment. 
I support the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill which is before the Senate this afternoon. I am very encouraged to see that there has been a substantial increase in the allocation of funds to the States for Aboriginal development. There are many areas in which Aborigines are in great need, particularly in fields to which the Government has seen fit to allocate money such as housing, health, education, employment and, social work. Also I am very happy to see that the Government in its wisdom has seen fit to allocate money to voluntary organisations in the various States. I believe that these organisations do a great job in liaison and welfare work and not only in straight out welfare work where people are in dire circumstances and need but also in health and social activities. 1 am very happy to see in the allocation of money to Queensland that an amount has been allocated to the various social organisations such as my organisation called One People of Australia League. This allocation has been very substantial indeed. It is helping many members of my race to fit into the community and enjoy the kinds of activities which they feel they need to do. 
An amount of money has been allocated for housing. I believe that there is a great need to assist the members of my race in relation to housing. For many years they have lived on the fringe of our towns not Only in Queensland but also in the other States. They had to live under sub-standard conditions because of the lack of educational training and job opportunities. Now it is very encouraging to see that there is a greater awareness not only by governments but also by people in various communities. Today more assistance is given to help Aborigines move into better housing conditions and employment. I feel that perhaps there is a need for more help in this field as there is in relation to health and education. I have seen remarkable changes, particularly over the past 6 or 7 years, since the Commonwealth has had power to make special laws for Aborigines. There has been this special allocation of money to assist the different States in Aboriginal advancement. In my own State I know that the State Government has seen fit in its present Budget to allocate nigh on $7m for Aboriginal advancement. When we add this to what has been allocated by the Federal Government we can see that things are progressing very well for my fellow Aborigines in my own State. 
I feel that we have to be a  little  careful in what we do because unfortunately we are receiving what might be termed a backlash from non-Aboriginal people in the community who perhaps are suffering through circumstances beyond their control. I know that in some areas of Queensland criticism has been levelled at the Government because of what is happening and what is being done for Aborigines. It makes me very sad to think that people do this because I feel that the Government and people of Australia have a particular responsibility to the indigenous people of this nation. I believe that there is a need for special legislation and special assistance to help members of my race who have come from a completely different culture and who are striving to adapt and integrate into the general community and become what we all want to be - respected and responsible citizens. It is very encouraging to me to realise that the Commonwealth Government and my State Government are now becoming more aware of the problems facing Aborigines and that they are now more readily doing something to assist. 
I feel that the Government should be looking at an idea which I have had for many years and which I have tried to promote. At this time I believe that there is a great need to involve Aborigines in Aboriginal affairs. When I say this I mean competent Aborigines, not necessarily academically brilliant but Aborigines who have suffered the problems which are facing many members of my race at this time and who have been able to overcome these problems. I believe that they would make very good liaison and welfare officers working among their own people. They would have common communication. They would have had the experience of facing these problems and overcoming them. They would be able to guide and liaise with members of their own race far better than the fully qualified social worker could. 1 am not knocking fully qualified social workers but I believe that what is sorely needed is Aborigines who have this common communication and who can speak with their own people and assist them to do better in the fields for which the Government is providing finance. 
I have tried to talk about this subject at many levels. I have spoken about it at State Government level and I have spoken about it to my colleagues but so far no one appears to have taken a great deal of notice. However, I believe that this is very important. It is perhaps one of the solutions to the problems we are facing at this time. We can legislate for many things but we cannot legislate for human attitudes. Despite all the finance that one likes to pour into solving these problems, unless people are able to take advantage of the opportunities made available to them the opportunities are to no avail. That is one of the aspects that I would like the Government to look at more closely and to do something about. 
I do not want to talk at great length on this Bill. I support it because it is a step in the right direction and will be of great assistance to members of my race in finally taking their place in the community as respected and responsible citizens. I believe, as I said earlier, that there is need for more to be done but I am very happy that something is being done at this time. I will be talking about these matters as I move among my Aboriginal friends in my own State. I hope that I will have the opportunity to move in other States also and to speak to members of my race about the opportunities now being made available to them. I wholeheartedly support the Bill. 
Can the Minister for Health inform the Senate of the number of working wives in Queensland who would be immediately disadvantaged and penalised by the Australian Labor Party's proposed compulsory health tax which is currently set at 1.35 per cent of taxable income? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would have to obtain some statistics in order to be able to answer the question completely, but I feel bound to say that one has to be a pretty good foot runner to keep up with the variations in the proposals now being advocated. Until about a fortnight ago the proposal was - and it was clearly stated in speeches made - that there would be a ceiling of $100 and husband and wife were to be included. In 2 speeches to which I have since had my attention drawn the husband and wife provision has been eliminated. The fact is that if both husband and wife are earning they will each be taxed at the rate of 1.35 per cent of their taxable incomes. At present I am in the process of doing my arithmetic on what it would mean if the husband is in receipt of the the average weekly income and his wife has the income of even a stenographer. Even on those figures they would pay quite a high amount. I do not know how many working wives are in Queensland at present, or in any other State. 
-I present the following petition from  1,394  citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble Petition of certain people of the Torres Strait respectfullyshoweth that they wish to remain Australians and do not want the border between Queensland and Papua NewGuinea altered. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
this Parliament re-affirm our rights to our Islands, our ancestral homes for generations before the discovery of Australia; 
you recognise that we are Australians and do not wish to become citizens of Papua New Guinea; 
you help us preserve our distinctive cultural language and political identity; and your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
There has been talk of giving the islands away. There, are 576 people on the 3 islands in question - 'Boigu, Saibai and Dauan. They have regarded themselves as Australians since the white man first came here and took this country. They have regarded themselves as Queenslanders. Now there is a possibility that they will become Papua New Guineans because someone down here is to say: 'You are not going to be. Queenslanders or Australians any more. We are going to give away your nationality and give you to Papua New Guinea.' An honourable senator opposite said that people in shadow form have been going to the Torres Strait islands. Perhaps I could be mistaken for a shadow because of my colour. 
Thank you, but I could be regarded by some people as a shadow. 1 went to the Torres Strait islands and spoke to the people there. They called a special meeting at Tamway Town to ask me to make representations in this chamber on their behalf. 1 listened to several Torres Strait islanders speak on the border issue. One old gentleman rose and addressed the assembly in these words: 'My brothers, please don't let em taken these islands away from us. These, islands belong you and me and my father, grandfather and great-grandfather.' 
Honourable senators opposite might think it smart to interject because I speak as my brother Torres Strait islanders speak among themselves and Aborigines speak amongst ourselves. It might sound funny to you people but it is our way of communicating and it is a&gt; way in which  Senator Keeffe  will never be able to communicate with Torres Strait Islanders and Aborigines. The men and women on the Torres Strait islands do not want the Australian Government to give away their birthright that was given to them not by man but by God. They do not want their homes and everything that they believe in to be given away. Their families have been born and raised there. I ask you please, for God's sake, do not let us see again happen in 1973 to the Torres Strait islanders the same thing that happened to members of my race. Do not take away their islands; do not take away their nationality. Let them remain as they want to remain - Queenslanders and Australians. The wise old gentlemen to whom I was referring when I was so rudely interrupted said that they have a problem. He said to us: 'Brothers, when I got problem I go to my father's grave. I can sit and I can talk and I am comforted'. 
You are, because if you give these islands to Papua New Guinea the islanders will not remain there. No longer will they have the opportunity of going back to their own land. How could you understand? How could a white man understand the feelings of Aborigines or Torres Strait islanders? You have no idea. You could not understand their feelings because to you a piece of land means money in your pocket. You can use it for some commercial purpose, but that is not the feeling of Torres Strait islanders and Aborigines. To us land means something more. 
No, and some of your people helped to do it. Never forget that. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I do not think this is an occasion for creating bedlam.  Senator Bonner  is entitled to be heard in silence and I trust that senators will give him a fair hearing. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  but feel not for me because, like my brothers and. sisters in the Torres Strait islands, I am quite used to being overruled by the white majority. I do not have a great deal of time to speak in this debate. Unfortunately, much of it has been taken up by rude interruptions and interjections from senators who, I am quite sure, know a little better. Nevertheless, once again I make this plea on behalf of the people of the Torres Strait islands. They know nothing about mineral wealth and such things. All they know is that these are their islands. On their behalf I am asking that before any alteration to the border is made they are consulted and their views are taken into consideration. J ask that they be given an opportunity to say to the Government or to the representatives of the Government whether they want to be Papua New Guineans. 1 have heard many silly arguments here tonight about the islands being too close to the Papua New Guinea border. That is a stupid argument. What about the bolder between West Irian and Papua New Guinea? lt is only a line across a map. Some people say that because the islands are too close to Papua New Guinea we should give them to Papua New Guinea. I say that that is a stupid argument because many countries are divided by a line on a map. 
What difference does it make if the islands are a mile or 2 yards away from Papua New Guinea? lt makes no difference because between some countries there is only a fence. To say that these people have to traverse Queensland waters to go from point A to point B because of a bay does not carry any weight whatsoever because they could still go in around the bays and get to the other point in that way. So because we want to save the people of Papua New Guinea, bless them, from going an extra mile, it is suggested that we should give 570-odd people to Papua New Guinea when they do not want to become part of that country. I say that we should not give part of Queensland to Papua New Guinea. We in this Parliament should listen for once in our lives to the voice of the indigenous people who are asking that their boundaries should not be changed. 1 am sorry,  Mr Deputy President,  that I lost my speech, the speech which  Senator Keeffe  referred to as having been prepared by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  but perhaps what I have had to say tonight has been a lot better than anything  Senator Keeffe  could come up with. 1 urge all honourable senators in this chamber tonight to support  Senator Byrne's  motion and to carry it so that the rights of the 
Torres Strait islanders will be preserved and so that they will remain Queensland Australians. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that an Aboriginal transport company known as Leena Coachline and Tour Ltd is unable to expand because of lack of funds? Is the Minister also aware that a loan approved some months ago from a fund administered by the Federal Government has not come through, despite telegrammed pleas to the Minister concerned? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, follows complaints that have been made to me that the unemployment benefit is not available to Aborigines who by choice reside in Aboriginal communities and reserves. Will the Minister inform me whether this is so? If it is so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons? If not correct, will the Minister inform the House of the conditions required to be met by an Aboriginal applicant who resides in an Aboriginal community or reserve area? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate in relation to the capital fund for Aborigines of the number and total value of loans approved in each State and the Northern Territory for each year of operation of the capital fund and the number and total value of defaults and losses in each year in respect of each State and the Northern Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Before asking the question I would like it to be noted that I take exception to being made an example, out of 60 honourable senators in this chamber, when conforming to the wishes of the  President  of the Senate. The Minister has been reported in the Press as offering free contraceptives to Aboriginal women. I ask: Is that offer in line with the advocacy by the Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  of the sterilisation of Aborigines? If not, will the Government now be offering free contraceptives to all Australian women? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware that it was reported by a Brisbane television station that the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia was given a 19-gun salute on his arrival in Australia? Can the Minister explain to the Senate the justification for that action, as I understand that only visiting royalty and heads of state are entitled to such treatment? 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that it was reported in the Press this morning that a percentage of the mining royalties in the Northern Territory would be paid to the 'blacks'. Will he use his influence to ensure that in future the media will not refer to the Aborigines of this nation in such an insulting way? 
I want to indicate my wholehearted support for the measures relating to Aboriginal advancement being brought forward by the present Government. As my colleague stated earlier, it is an extension of some of the measures that were brought forward by the previous Government, and I also gave my wholehearted support to those measures. I have looked very closely at the allocations of the moneys, and 1 notice with great pleasure that the money is to be allocated to overcome some of the real problems facing Aborigines, particularly those living in cities and towns. But perhaps the money does not really reach those of my race who live in the Northern Territory and in other similar areas. Money is to be allocated for housing, health, education, employment, special work projects and regional projects. 
It is important that Aborigines are given the same opportunities as other Australians in the field of education and housing, and surely there is a real need for more to be done in the field of health than perhaps has been done in the past. As  Senator Little  stated, one cannot always cure all these problems wholly and solely by legislation and finance. For many years I have advocated, both at the State and Federal levels, even prior to my becoming involved in politics, that perhaps one of the main solutions to many of the problems facing members of my race is the involvement of competent Aborigines working in the field. This would require finance, but 1 believe that there is a greater need for the involvement of Aborigines, and I am pleased to note that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  has indicated that this is what he intends to do. 
I have had discussions with many Aborigines, particularly in my own State. 
Many Aborigines have applied for positions but unfortunately, because of some misunderstanding or something within the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs, many of them have not had the courtesy of even receiving an acknowledgment of their applications. So if the present Government is to bring forward policies, I would hope that the policies would be followed through and that Aborigines would be given the opportunity to work amongst their own people. 
I say this because far too often people advocate an overall policy for the cure of all the problems facing Aborigines. I believe that this cannot be done. We cannot have an overall policy for Aborigines because Aborigines in Australia today are in varying stages of development. The answer to the problems facing Aborigines in, say, northern Queensland would not necessarily be the same as the answer to the problems facing Aborigines living around Melbourne or Sydney, or even in Townsville and Brisbane. So there needs to be more in-depth studies of the problems facing Aborigines in various areas. 
Today many members of my race suffer what we may term psychological scars because of the destruction of their own customs, traditions and culture and because for far too many years Aborigines were treated perhaps with less esteem than the household pet. There has been discrimination and prejudice in many ways, and I do not think that we can get away from this. Although the discrimination may perhaps not be so blatant today, it is still there, it is in a more subtle form. I could give many instances where this has happened, even in my own State of Queensland where perhaps Aborigines have been given a better deal than they have in any other State. I say that most sincerely. Today many of the adult Aboriginals suffer from a lack of education and training in various fields. All the legislation which is brought forward in relation to education and health will not solve problems unless competent Aborigines are fielded to liaise with their own people, to ensure that they are sure of their entitlements and where to go to receive them, and how to cope with the many problems they are facing. Today I am very proud to stand up and support this Bill. I sincerely hope that what I have said and what I will continue to say will be noted. We need competent Aborigines in the field to work with their own people. 
I have levelled criticism not only at the present Government but also at the previous Government. I bring into this Parliament a certain amount of expertise in relation to Aboriginal affairs, lt seems strange to me but the consultation by previous Ministers, by the present Minister and by the Parliament generally has not been what I hoped it would be. Many people come into this Parliament with expertise in various fields. We have lawyers, agriculturists and economists. We have expertise in all fields. I am quite sure that their expertise is taken advantage of by their parliamentary colleagues and particularly by Ministers in charge of various portfolios. I have found that in my own case there has not been a use of this expertise. 
 I do not know what  Senator Cavanagh  is interjecting about, but if his Government is prepared to call on my knowledge in relation to Aboriginal affairs I will be happy to give it. There are those who have levelled criticism at me, particularly honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber. This seems strange when we look at the figures for the last Senate election in Queensland. I received at least 75 per cent of the total vote cast by all Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders living in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities. To me that indicates that I certainly have the support of the Aboriginal people in my own State, lt is difficult to obtain any percentages in relation to Aborigines not living in communities because they are not identified as such On the rolls. But in relation to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities I have obtained a very good idea of how the people voted. I am proud to say that despite the criticism and the taunts from the Government benches I have obtained the support of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people.  1  do not want to take up more of the time of the Senate. Suffice it to say that I am very happy to support this Bill because it makes money for Aboriginal advancement available to the States. As I said previously, I hope that some note will be taken of the employment and the involvement of competent Aborigines in the field of Aboriginal endeavour. Thank you. 
My question, which I direct to the Special Minister of State, refers to the 3 Australian citizens who were executed in a foreign country. When did the trials of these 3 men take place? What was the nature of the trials - court or military, secret or public? What charges were made against the accused? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has seen fit to confer with the Chief Minister for Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  on the Torres Strait Islands border issue, and considering the statement attributed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs recently in the Press, has the Prime Minister taken any steps to confer with -the leaders of the Torres Strait Islands people and the Queensland Government on a matter which is of great importance in the lives of many Australian citizens? 
 I have no intention of taking up a great deal of the Senate's time this evening. I can assure the Senate that what I have to say I can say in a very few words. Amongst those few words, I say that I completely oppose the abolition of the death penalty. I cannot support this Bill because I believe that on many occasions a need exists for this penalty to be implemented. I can cite cases over many years and in recent years where people have sat down and deliberately planned and executed dastardly crimes against society. As the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said in his second reading speech, we place a great importance on the sanctity of life. Surely, this sanctity is something that we want to preserve. I believe that the rest of society is entitled to be protected against those persons who have no thought whatsoever for the sanctity of life. 1 refer now to the case of the Mackay sisters of Townsville. Two dear little children left for school happily in the morning and a person or persons unknown took those innocent little children away and committed the most vile of crimes and buried their dear little bodies in the sand in a creek miles away from their own home. Surely that person or those persons should pay with their lives for such a crime. It is wrong to say that they should be sentenced to life imprisonment. Life imprisonment today means a penalty of 7, 8 or 9 years in a prison that is supported by the taxpayers - a prison which would be supported by the mother and the father of those 2 dear little children whom I have just mentioned. These criminals are supported by taxpayers' money in gaols for 7, 8, 9 or perhaps even 10 years at the most. They then return to society and have the opportunity to commit again the same kind of crime. The lives of such people should be forfeited. Consequently, I believe that the death penalty should remain on our statute-books. 1 am sorry to see that some Australian States have abolished the death penalty. I feel that in my own State certain crimes should surely have attracted the death penalty as punishment. Only two or three weeks ago in my own home town, in the street in which I live, some person or persons unknown sneaked into a flat occupied by a husband and wife and 2 little children. After a tremendously hard day the family returned to their own home and went to their beds. During that night, in the darkness, while everybody was asleep, some person or persons unknown sneaked into that flat and took away an 18- months-old child - a dear sweet little child whom I had seen in my time toddling around its home. That child was taken from its bed, molested, sexually assaulted, murdered and thrown onto the roof of a building only 400 yards away from her parents' home. That person or those persons should forfeit his life or their lives. 
That is what we will say: The poor man was sick. Such people should forfeit their lives. They should not be allowed to wander around our country and again have the opportunity to commit such crimes. A person convicted of such an offence will be put in an institution and kept there for a few years, and then some psychiatrist or some doctor will say: 'He is well now. We can let him go back into society'. Who is to say that he will not do the same thing again? 
The doctor will say that the man will not commit a crime? 
 The doctor cannot say that the man will not commit a crime. He could commit a crime again. Such people have committed crimes again and again. We say: 'No. We should not take their lives. They can take as many lives as they like. They can sit down and plan it'. Take the case of the fire at the Whisky-Au-Go-Go. Some person or persons unknown sat down and planned it. They did not kill someone in the heat of the moment. They did not have a grudge aganst the persons whom they killed. They locked the doors. They put grease on the floor so that the people would slide and fall. They did not care whether there were 10, 100 or 1,000 people there. Fifteen innocent lives were taken by someone who deliberately planned the .fire. Was he sick? He deliberately sat down and planned to take the lives of certain people for some monetary gain or to put pressure on this kind of business enterprise so that he could cash in on it. Should that man be allowed to live in prison for 8, 10, 12 or 15 years while the parents, sisters, brothers and cousins of the people who died are supporting those prisoners by paying taxes? I say no, that their lives should be forfeited. I do not believe that they have a right to go back into society and commit the same kind of crimes again and again, as we have seen happen in our society. 
The Attorney-General has stated that there seems to be a world wide trend against the death penalty. I cannot believe that. I can pick up a newspaper and read that in the United Kingdom people are thinking seriously about reintroducing the death penalty. Recently  President  Nixon said that he was considering seriously trying to introduce death penalty legislation in the United States again. The present Government thinks that the death penalty should be abolished. I think it is hypocritical of the present Government and the Attorney-General, particularly at this stage, to be introducing a Bill to abolish the death penalty when the Attorney-General is quite happy to deport people from this country to their homelands. Deportation can spell only death to these people. We know that as surely as we know that the sun will rise tomorrow. We know what will happen if we deport some of the Croatians who are against the communist regime in Yugoslavia. At the moment we have no proof that they wish to return there to try to overthrow the Government. We have not any positive proof that what has been said here by the Attorney-General is true. But he would deport them, knowing full well that they would be executed on return to their homeland. Is that not, in a sense, sentencing these people to death? We abolish the death penalty in our country, but we permit and condone it in Yugoslavia. We condone it in all the communist countries which kill millions of Christian people. That is what the Labor Party would have us do. lt is rather hypocritical of the AttorneyGeneral to introduce the Bill at this time when we know that in the other place members of the Labor Party will introduce a Bill which will legalise abortion on demand. That Bill will be introduced in the other place on, I believe. 10th May. On the one hand the Government says that we must not take the life of someone who is a criminal, someone who has murdered or someone who has planned to murder, in some cases not one person but several persons; we should not put them to death. Under another Bill in another place we would condemn the lives of innocent unborn babies. That is a different matter. 1 believe that it is hypocritical of the Labor Government to introduce this Bill in the Senate at this time. For that reason and for other reasons which I have mentioned, I oppose the Bill in its entirety. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health inform me whether it is true that the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia has recently approved a project to investigate the incidence of. incest amongst Aborigines in Australia? Can the Minister also tell me what practical purpose this research would serve? Further, does he agree that the research project implies that Aborigines are more incestuous than other Australians and' is therefore insulting to the decent, law-abiding Aboriginal citizens of Australia? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General whether measurements of sound levels have been taken at the Amberley post office? If so, are the levels within the limits considered by the health authorities as acceptable? If tests have not been made, will the Minister give an assurance that they will be carried out? Is it the intention of the Postmaster-General's Department to provide a new, brick, airconditioned and soundproof office at the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Amberley for the use of both civilian and Air Force personnel? If not, has any negotiation taken place with the Department of Air for the provision of such a* building? 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What action does the Minister intend to take, if any, to assist the Victorian Aboriginal Advancement League which is seeking an injunction to restrain anthropologists from excavating a graveyard in Victoria containing more than 40 skeletons, a report of which appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper on Saturday, 19 May 1973? Are we again to see the desecration of Aboriginal sacred burial grounds? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia recently approved a project to investigate the incidence of incest amongst Aborigines. 
What practical purpose would this research serve. 
Does the Minister ' agree that the project implies that Aborigines are more incestuous than other Australians, and is therefore insulting to the decent and law-abiding Aboriginal citizens of Australia. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND - The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) Records of the National Health and Medical Research Council disclose that the Council has not, during the past two years, approved any medical research project specifically intended to investigate the incidence of incest among Aborigines. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: When the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee is finally established what powers, if any, will this body have in relation to legislation affecting Aborigines? Will the Committee be given the opportunity to scrutinise legislation affecting Aborigines before it is introduced in the Parliament? In view of the fact that the Federal Government is soon to assume full responsibility for Aborigines throughout the Commonwealth, what is the Government's list of priorities? How will the Government define an Aboriginal? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that advice has been sent through the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs to voluntary organisations employing Aborigines that they should not pay Aborigines wages comparable to those paid by the Department? If so, what is the reason for this instruction? 
I enter this debate for one very important reason. We are debating the disallowance or the repeal of an ordinance that was introduced by the previous Govern ment. I have sat in this chamber and have listened, as I have listened for many years, to Aborigines being used as a political football. They have been used as a political football in an attempt to disallow an ordinance to prevent people regardless of their colour - whether they be black, white or brindle with green stripes - from setting up tents or anything else on the lawns in front of Parliament House. I do not think the rights or wrongs of that ordinance should enter into this debate. The ordinance was brought in for a specific purpose - to stop anyone abusing the lawns or nature strips in Canberra. When the previous Government spoke of introducing that ordinance I spoke strongly against it because I felt that it was being brought in to remove my fellow Aborigines from the lawns in front of Parliament House. It has been said today that it was disgraceful that they camped on those lawns. Is it any more disgraceful than Aborigines sleeping on creek banks throughout this Commonwealth? I do not think it is. As a matter of fact I did not agree with Aborigines camping on the lawns of Parliament House. I felt it was not the right thing. I agreed with their objective of bringing to the attention of members of the Parliament the conditions in which some of our folk live. ButI do not think any member of this Parliament should use this subject for his own political gain. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  spoke of all the wonderful things that his Government is going to do for Aborigines. Let me tell him that I will be in this chamber for a long time making sure that the Government carries out the wonderful promises it is making at the moment. At the moment they are only big talkers. I will be watching very closely, as will many of my fellow-Aborigines, to see what will happen in relation to Aboriginal affairs. I hope that we will not be shoved up a sidetrack because that is what I can see will happen with the establishment of this consultative committee - an Aboriginal parliament! We do not want an Aboriginal parliament. We want to be part and parcel of the Australian community. We want to see more Aborigines in this chamber speaking on matters that affect all Australians and not just having the opportunity of speaking only on Aboriginal affairs. We want the opportunity to speak on all matters affecting all Australians, because we are Australians. We were the first Australians. I speak strongly in favour of the disallowance of the ordinance so that in future my Aboriginal fellows will not be humiliated on the lawns of Parliament House. There will be an ordinance to prohibit them from camping there, but they will still be allowed to stand out there and make their protest in a proper and dignified manner like any other Australian citizen. I am quite sure that if the occasion arises and I feel strongly enough about it I will certainly stand on the lawns of Parliament House with other Aborigines. I certainly would not camp on the lawns and lower the dignity of a very dignified race. 
 That remains to be seen. Maybe I am a little closer to the Aboriginal people than some of the so-called-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  -I think the honourable senator should keep within the terms of the motion before the Senate. 
 I am quite sure that the time will come when Aborigines will want to return here and make some protest. I hope that the disallowance motion will be carried. The Aborigines will then be able to protest with the dignity with which their forefathers roamed this nation before the coming of the white man. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Can the Minister inform the Senate what body is responsible for the disbursement of accrued royalties payable to Aborigines by mining companies in the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Have measurements of sound levels been taken at Post Office Amberley. 
If so, are these levels within the limits considered by Health Authorities as being acceptable. 
If not, would the Minister give an assurance that these tests will be carried out. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) No measurements have yet been taken of sound levels in the Post Office at Amberley. 
Yes. Arrangements are being made for Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratory staff who have been operating on the Amberley base to carry out measurements of sound levels in the Post Office. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Postmaster-General to provide a new brick, air-conditioned and sound proofed office at RAAF Base Amberley for use of both civilian and air force personnel. 
If not, has any negotiation taken place with the Department of Air for the provision of such a building. 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLAND- The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. It is a normal requirement that accommodation used for post office facilities located on Defence Establishments be provided by the Service concerned. 
Yes. Negotiations commenced in 1971 and the Master Plan for upgrading the Amberley Base includes provision to reaccommodate post office facilities in a new building. The facility will be available for civilians as well as service personnel. The timing of construction of the building and the type of accommodation will be a matter for determination by the Department of Air in consultation with the Department of Works. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I ask: Is the Minister aware that a large overseas company is at present establishing a factory in Australia for the manufacture of automotive wiring harness? Further, as many Australian companies will be seriously threatened by the entry into the market  of  this large overseas company, what steps will the Minister take to have this matter investigated? 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister inform the Senate as to the qualifications of the Acting Director of the Theatre Board of the Australian Council for the Arts? Further, can he inform the Senate as to how and by whom he was appointed? Is it also a fact that the Acting Director of the Theatre Board was a former business employee of the  Chairman  of the Theatre Board? 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer confirm or deny the statement of  Dr J.  F. Cairns on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program 'AM' this morning that he was not told of the Government 's decision to increase interest rates? If this is true, does this not make  Dr Cairns  look rather foolish in the eyes of the members of the conference of which he is a member, particularly considering that his is a senior member of the Australian Government? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the outbreak of scabies and gastro-enteritis on Palm Island and medical disclosures that up to three-quarters of the children there are suffering from those complaints. As much of the problem allegedly is due to lack of sewerage and other hygiene facilities, will the Government make money available to ensure that at least sewerage facilities are installed on the island for the benefit of the people there? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface it by referring to a letter which I received from  Mr B.  G. Dexter, Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in which he informed me that he had only limited supplies of the following publications: 'Aboriginal Art of Australia', 'Aborigines of Australia', The Australian Aborigines', and 'After the Dreaming'. Will the Minister ensure that the Department has sufficient numbers of these publications to distribute to schools as they are important in educating the non-Aboriginal people towards a better understanding of Aborigines and the Aboriginal culture? 
I direct a question without notice to the Minister representing the Minister for surrender- I beg your pardon- the Minister for Defence. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the civil defence forces - 
-As my colleague  Senator Rae  said, we on the Opposition side of the Senate are not opposing this Bill. I am very glad to have this opportunity of saying a few brief words about it. This Bill was introduced by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I want to refer to the word 'security'. Surely we are all entitled to some form of security, whether it be in our old age or whether it be when we are temporarily unemployed. Also, unfortunately, there are many women who have been deserted by their husbands and who have to support children. There are unmarried mothers and other members of the community who certainly are entitled to some security. But by the same token I suggest that we look very carefully at the motives underlying the need for social security before we try to bring about a Utopia or a work free state in Australia. 
The moneys used to make the social service payments must come inevitably, as we know, from the taxpayer. Therefore this money is collected as a result of the work and sweat of the average Australian, regardless of his profession or the walk of life in which he chooses to engage. These benefit payments are contributed by these average Australian people. I think it is very important to remember that this money is held in trust by governments which have the responsibility of ensuring that it is distributed to citizens who have particular problems and who, for good and definite reasons, are temporarily incapable of contributing towards this common cause. This may be so because they are ill, because they are in retirement or because for some good reason they are not capable of making the kind of contributions which they were able to make earlier in their lives. 
I believe that the main reason for making these payments is a very simple one: They are designed to tide people over a difficult period, recognising that they are capable of again becoming productive members of society. Alternatively, they are a recognition by the community generally that people should be given security in their old age. I think it is logical that the nation should support and assist individuals and groups of people who are disadvantaged. I am equally certain that social security benefits, other than those paid to people in retirement, should nonetheless be directed primarily to encouraging people to resume as soon as possible their full productive role within the community. I do not believe that social security benefits should represent a need in themselves. As I have stressed previously, rather they should provide a means by which people can maintain their normal family life during periods of personal difficulty or, alternatively, provide a means by which people have an opportunity to learn some skill that will assist them in making their way and contributing to the community generally. 
It is my belief that most of my fellow Australians basically will agree with the proposition that, although all of us are capable of appreciating the problems that can arise and the prejudices that sometimes do occur, it is within the responsibility and the duty of every Australian, and of the Government in particular, to assist in every way possible. Again I believe that this assistance should be given on a basis of allowing the individual to return to a position in society so that- I place great importance on this point- he is again able to make his contribution. 
At this point I would like to speak specifically of the Aboriginal Australians. I am sure it will be apparent from many of my public statements that I regard Aborigines as being especially disadvantaged. I know full well that we Aborigines are not short on intelligence, energy, imagination and a whole host of other abilities. I am equally sure that 99.9 per cent of Aborigines wish to make use of their skills and abilities, not only for their own benefit but also for the benefit of the community generally. As I have said on previous occasions, in past years many of my fellow Aborigines have been excluded through prejudice from taking up positions which would enable them to contribute to society to the degree that they should and, I am sure, to the degree that they would wish. Consequently it is my view that any money spent on improving housing, health services, education facilities and training programs as a necessary prerequisite to a full contribution by Australian Aborigines to Australian life. I believe that we Aborigines have unique talents and are in a position to influence for the good our Australian way of life. We should be given every opportunity to do so. I am very pleased to note that Aborigines in all areas of Australia, particularly those in Aboriginal communities, are now in receipt of social security benefits. 
Every Aborigine who is eligible to receive a pension should receive one. This matter causes me great concern because I believe there are some Aborigines who, because of a lack of knowledge and understanding of their entitlements, perhaps are not able to take advantage of the opportunities that are available to them. 
I hope that this is so. The honourable senator probably knows that on previous occasions I have advocated that competent Aborigines should move among their own people in order to ensure that they are made aware of the many benefits available to them. I would agree with what my colleague  Senator Rae  mentioned about these proposed increases in social security benefits. I am very happy to see that the present Government proposes to make these increases, but unfortunately those people who will be in receipt of them will not benefit to the extent that they should because of the high cost of living and the increased rate of inflation which have occurred in this country, particularly since this Government took office on 2 December. It appears that the Government is not capable of bringing this inflation under control. At least when we were in government we were able to contain it. Even though the payments will be increased very little benefit will flow on to the recipients. 
As I said earlier, I am not opposing these measures, but I am concerned about one aspect, namely, the way in which people who are temporarily unemployed benefit from these increased payments. It seems to me that because of the actions of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  people who have become temporarily unemployed seem to become permanently unemployed because of the unemployment benefit being paid. This brings to mind an incident that occurred just recently in Cairns. A couple of chaps who allegedly were unemployed registered for unemployment benefit, but when registering they gave their occupation as lion tamers. For many months employment could not be found for them. 
As lion tamers, yes. Unfortunately a circus happened to come to town and there was a very quick exit by two potential lion tamers. As I said earlier, I believe that all people are entitled to some security but I stress again that it should be only to help them over an unhappy period so that they can once again become contributing members of the community. I do not think I should take up any more of the Senate's time. 
I am entering this debate this evening because I am a very concerned Australian. We are debating a matter of urgency concerning the reduction of Australia's defences to a degree which destroys the morale of our armed forces, leaves Australia without credibility as an ally and gravely endangers our security. That is a matter which should be of great concern to all Australians. I am conscious of the fact that the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  in another place before he became the Minister for Defence showed some concern in relation to this matter. He showed that concern by a statement he made. My colleague,  Senator Sim,  quoted from it. I think that it is appropriate that I should quote again what  Mr Barnard  said because it shows the double standards and the right about face that this Government has seen fit to engage in since gaining office on 2 December. The Minister for Defence said: 
Any government that shows it lacked interest in defence or sought to cut back sharply on defence or even dismantle part of the defence structure would not be the Government of this country for very long. 
Perhaps that is an omen. As I see it, with all the nonsense that has been going on under this present Government, it will not be in office for very long. I am sure that the people of Australia will ensure that it leaves office very shortly. I would like to read a statement I have here made by General  Sir Thomas  Daly. A little over 12 months ago he made this remark about our armed forces: 
I doubt very much if there is, anywhere, a more proficient, more professional group of soldiers than those in the regular component of the Australian Army today. 
Let us look at the position some 1 3 months later. What has happened since this Government came to office and since the Minister for Defence started to cut back on defence spending? We find that the members of our forces today are still proficient and are still very professional. But morale has deteriorated gravely. Officers and men alike are bewildered, frustrated and disenchanted. They have been given little concept of their likely role. They see little future in the Services. In increasing numbers, and at levels of rank and competence the Army can ill afford to lose, they are resigning to take up jobs in civil life. That shows that the morale of our armed forces today is in a very low state. 
Let me cite some of the figures in regard to resignations of members of our armed forces. From 30 November last year to 3 1 May this year there have been 61 resignations. A further 17 officers resigned in June, 18 in July and 23 in 
August. That shows that the morale of the Army is certainly lower than it should be. The Government claims that there is no threat to Australia within the foreseeable future- within the next 10 or 15 years. I am quite sure that that is the Government's prerogative to decide that there will be no threat to Australia in the next 1 5 years. But I feel that the Government ought to have kept such an important matter to itself as being classified and top secret rather than spouting it to all and sundry. To use one of the Government's own phrases, it is time that the people of Australia woke up to the fact that because of the actions of this Government, particularly of the Minister for Defence in regard to what is happening with our armed forces, the morale is low and the men are wondering what will happen to them next. There have been cut backs in every possible way. The Government talks so much about a volunteer Army. But even the expenditure of the civil defence service has been curtailed and it is not able to do some of the things it wants to do. 
-That is right. Even the school cadet corps have ceased to function. Where does the Government expect to obtain a volunteer Army when it cannot even look after the Army we have at present? I am concerned and I know that many other Australians are concerned about what is happening at this time. I feel that the Minister has made a grave mistake in making these cut backs. It is time that he woke up to himself and made sure that this country had a defence policy and that we would be able to defend ourselves should there be a need for this. At the moment, it looks as though we will finish up as my forefathers did. We will be trying to defend this country with a couple of boomerangs and a couple of spears. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, by stating that many of my constituents have expressed concern at what seems to be a substantial amount of taxpayers' money being spent to publicise the Government's national health scheme. Will the Minister inform the Senate why the Minister for Social Security has found it necessary to conduct what appears to be irresponsible spending of taxpayers' money? Will he also inform the Senate of the amount of money which has already been spent on this campaign? 
-Can the Minister who represents the Minister for the Army inform the Senate whether it is indeed a fact that the resignations before the Military Board at present are in double figures and involve a number of colonels and brigadiers? Is it also a fact that the resignations are due to the low morale among senior ranks in the Army? Will the Minister have this matter fully investigated in the interests of the defence of this nation? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface it by referring to a question asked by my colleague,  Senator Maunsell,  yesterday relating to an outbreak of virus influenza at Edward River Mission in Queensland. Will the Minister inform the Senate who informed him of this outbreak of virus influenza at Edward River Mission, Queensland? Will he inform the Senate why the Aboriginal and Island Affairs Department in Queensland and the Royal Flying Doctor Service were not consulted? Is he aware that a Government doctor from Cairns visited the Edward River Mission and confirmed, the sister's finding that there were, in fact, only two or three cases of 'flu? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Considering that the Aboriginal people represent aproximately 1 per cent of the total Australian population, can the Minister inform the Senate of the percentage of Aboriginal guests invited to the official opening of the Opera Houseironically referred to as Bennelong- by  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia? Since living in this nation is  Her  Majesty's first and only Aboriginal knight, namely  Sir Douglas  Nicholls, was he included in the guest list? 
I do not intend to oppose the Bill which appears, on the surface, to be a purely mechanical one which provides, I think in all fairness and justice, for the transfer of officers from State authorities to the Australian Public Service. I have no reservations with regard to the principle that an officer is entitled to have his rights and privileges protected. My objection to the Government's proposal at the moment to take over Aboriginal affairs throughout the Commonwealth is that I think that such a takeover should not be happening at this stage of our history. I believe that there should be more consultation and co-operation between the State governments and the Federal Government. I think that perhaps in some way the Government is putting the cart before the horse. As I understand the position, no negotiations between the States and the Federal Government have taken place. I understand that my home State of Queensland and other States are not prepared to hand over their responsibilities to any government. 
I believe that the referendum of 1967 certainly gave powers to the Commonwealth Governmentthe Australian Government as it is now called- to make special laws for Aborigines. But I believe that the responsibility of the Australian Government is to ensure that the States have sufficient finance to carry out the programs which they have been endeavouring to carry out for a number of years. 1 speak particularly of Queensland. The previous Minister, when introducing this Bill in the other place, mentioned that quite a substantial amount was handed over to the States by the Commonwealth. The Queensland Government, in its 1972-73 Budget, allocated $7m for the advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. The Commonwealth Government did not match that allocation. It allocated quite a lot less. 
I believe that State governments already have set up departments which have accepted responsibility for the advancement of Aboriginal people. Although Queensland has come in for some criticism, I believe that it has led the field in the manner in which it has endeavoured to assist Aboriginal people. I believe that the Commonwealth Government should be making sufficient money available to the States to enable them to carry on the programs which they have been endeavouring to carry on for some time in the fields of housing, health, education and employment so that the Aboriginal people in the various States can be independent, the same as any other Australian. I disagree with the idea that the Commonwealth should have the powers in relation to the advancement of Aboriginal people centred in Canberra. I think that we have had quite a deal of experience of the centralisation of power. I think that what happened here last week and what is happening at the moment on the lawns in front of Parliament House is an indication that the present Government is certainly bungling some of the promises that it made in its election campaign so far as Aborigines are concerned. Otherwise why are they on the front lawns at the moment, and why were they on the steps of Parliament House last week? The transfer of the previous Minister was not in accord with Aboriginal thinking. They had as Minister a man in whom they had faith, whom they trusted and in whom they had hope. But the white man again acted without faith in, or thought about, or consultation with the Aboriginal people. 
So the Minister was transferred from his portfolio. It resulted in a display in front of Parliament House which could have turned into violence. It made me sick at heart to see my people making a spectacle of themselves. A number of people standing out there thought that it was a great joke. It was no joke at all. It was a protest about the bungling and mishandling that has gone on in Aboriginal affairs, particularly over the last six or seven months. Despite the dimness coming from the empty vessel on the other side who is interjecting, I would like to continue my remarks uninterrupted, if I may. I believe that the States have their machinery set up to deal with the problems. They are the ones who have worked in this field for a number of years. They have very dedicated people. I have worked alongside them and with them on many occasions in bringing to their attention many of the problems faced by Aboriginal people, particularly in my own State, and have always had a very good hearing from them. They are the people who are closest to the scene and who know exactly what is happening, and they are prepared to consult with the Aboriginal people. To me this Bill is a farce. The Commonwealth, through the Bill, is just starting to do something when it has not even negotiated sufficiently to convince the States that in this area they should hand over their responsibilities to the Federal Government. Although I am not opposed to the mechanics of this Bill, I am opposed to the implications of it. 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate of the number of Aborigines who have enrolled for the purpose of electing the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee? Further, is the Minister aware that a number of Aborigines have enrolled because they were threatened with the loss of government assistance in the fields of education, housing and other assistance which is important to their advancement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the fact that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, was reported to have indicated to an Aboriginal university student that he was prepared to offer university students long vacation employment, will the present Minister consult those Aborigines who are engaged in tertiary education and offer them the same opportunities as the former Minister did? Has the Minister an answer to the question which I asked him previously about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. When the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee is finally established with the election of 41 representatives, do the positions of Aboriginal State co-ordinators then become redundant? If not, will the State co-ordinators be responsible to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee or vice versa? Have the persons holding positions of State co-ordinators become, in fact, regional directors of Aboriginal affairs? Were these positions gazetted or were ministerial appointments made? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of Press reports that the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee elections will be held on 24 November? If so, will the Minister table for the information of the Senate the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee electoral roll? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Why have candidates for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee election on 24 November not been informed whether their nominations have been accepted? Will candidates be permitted to solicit funds from political parties, organisations and /or individuals to assist them in the financing of their campaigns? When will candidates be informed of the actual method of marking ballot papers, thus enabling them to prepare how to vote material? 
I support these 2 very important Bills which are designed to assist Australian citizens who have a handicap of some nature. I am pleased to note that assistance to sheltered workshops was introduced by the previous Government about 6 years ago. It is also very pleasing and encouraging, I am sure, to organisations and to people who have involved themselves in this matter for some time to note that the present Government is giving extra assistance in this regard. The second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  states: 
In any such program sheltered workshops are a most important ingredient. But they are not, and never will be, the whole answer to this problem. 
I agree with that statement entirely. Governments can do much in matters such as this by giving financial assistance to organisations which involve themselves in these matters but I believe that the community at large should take a greater interest. On a number of occasions I have visited sheltered workshops in my home State. When I come away from those places, the little aches, pains and gripes which I had disappear as a result of seeing the courage that is displayed by so many of the people, particularly young people, who are trying to better themselves in sheltered workshops. 
We talk of this wonderful country in which we live. We are a very rich nation, and we enjoy so many wonderful things. I wonder how many of us take these things for granted and do not stop to think of those who are less fortunate than ourselves. I refer to handicapped persons and aged people. How many of us enjoy the affluence in which we live and forget that we can become involved in areas such as this? How often on a Saturday or a Sunday do we say to the wife and children: 'Let's pack a picnic basket and go down to the coast'? We get into our motor cars and we go. We come back and we think about the wonderful day that we had. We walk along the street and see someone selling tickets on behalf of handicapped persons, we put our hands in our pockets, give 20c and think: 'By jove, we have done a good job'. But how many of us who go down to the coast would go to an aged persons home or to a place in which handicapped people reside and take them out for a day? We do not do things like that. We think that it is the responsibility of the churches, the organisations and governments. It sometimes saddens me to think that we depend so much on other people to do the things in which we should be involved. 
I realise that the Bills will certainly help handicapped persons, to a great extent, but I plead with Australians generally to take a greater interest in those people in our community who are Jess fortunate than ourselves. I have no hesitation in supporting the Bills. I congratulate the Government on its generosity in giving extra assistance to handicapped people and to sheltered workshops. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of Press reports that 3 Aborigines are protesting at the bombing of Quail Island, which they claim is sacred? Will he inform the Senate what steps he intends to take to assist the Aborigines to preserve the right of their Aboriginal tribe which is making a claim regarding the sacredness of this island? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government has plans for a survey of 60,000 people to decide what our national anthem will be? If so, why is it that only 60,000 people will decide what the Australian national anthem will be? Why is 'God Save the Queen' not included on the list? 
I wish to take up some of the Senate's time this evening to highlight some of the things which I believe to be completely wrong in regard to the establishment of the much vaunted National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I want to bring to the attention of the Senate how this Committee, which is being established at the moment, came about. I believe- I know- that it had its birth within the tentacles of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Initially this organisation did not know or even understand anything about Aborigines or Torres Strait Islanders because it was conceived in Victoria under the leadership of  Mr Gordon  Bryant, the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Of course, members of this organisation in that part of Australia would have known nothing about Torres Strait Islanders in particular, and very little about Aborigines. 
The Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders has been, and as I understand it still is, a radical organisation. Perhaps it may be right for that body to adopt a radical approach sometimes. When the former Minister took office last year he announced his intention of consulting with Aborigines. He formed, or set out to form what is today called the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. This Committee, of course, was the brainchild of the previous Government. But even when the previous Government proposed this move I did not agree with the then Minister on the establishment of the Consultative Committee as it is now being formed. 
I have travelled around a lot, particularly in my own State of Queensland and I am finding that Aborigines are confused and that they have been brainwashed into what I believe can be only termed living separately and being separate from the rest of the Australian community. This is a kind of auto-apartheid as I see it. The Aboriginal people have been told and have been brainwashed into believing that the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee will be a separate Aboriginal parliament. How ludicrous it is to suggest that there will be an Aboriginal parliament within Australia. I firmly believe that there is room and need for consultation with Aboriginal people. But I believe that to have a separate parliament and a separate electoral roll on which only Aboriginal people will be listed will divide the Aboriginal people not only among themselves but also from the rest of the Australian community. I give a warning here and now that this will cause a lot more trouble than people seem to realise at the moment. 
I want to read from a letter that was written to me and which was sent also to quite a number of other people including the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It was written by an Aboriginal person who left the small Aboriginal community of Purgan which is outside Ipswich at a time when it was very difficult for an Aborigine to do many things for himself. This man worked hard, established himself and became one of the first Aboriginal licensed drainers in Australia. With the permission of the Senate I would like to read this letter which was sent also to many other responsible people. It states: 
Dear  Sir, 
As an Aborigine I would like to protest about the formation of a National Aboriginal Consultative Committee for the following reasons: 
No one asked Aboriginal people whether they wanted the formation of such a committee or not. 
Even if Aboriginal people do want such a committee (and this has not been established) the time allocated for preparing this election is far too short- no State or Federal elections are run in such a short time with so little preparation. 
White people have set up this committee and now white people are going to tell us who is an Aborigine and who is not- see Parliamentary Debates, 5 June 1 973. 
I believe any council which has consultative powers only is useless- in fact Aborigines are still going to go begging and asking through a whole lot of red tape- they still can't make any decisions and 'their' representatives don't have the same powers as the Parliamentarians. 
Consequently I feel that a formation of such a committee would be a step backwards, indicative of segregation and allocating second class citizenship to Aboriginal people. 
I believe that a much more effective measure would be to make Aborigines more politically aware by means of education and publicity so that they enrol in State and Federal elections. They would then be in a position to set up their own party- as has been done by the pensioners etcetera - 
Or even the DLP and other small groups- on the same level as another political party and nominate delegates to represent them on a platform they see as most important. 
It was- signed by  Mr Les  Davidson of 825 Boonah Road, Churchill. That letter shows the interest of a man who has done a great deal of work amongst the Aboriginal people not only around Ipswich and Brisbane but also Cherbourg where he goes quite frequently and helps a lot of people. He knows the feelings of Aborigines in the same way as I do. When I think of the idea of putting into the minds of Aboriginal people that they are going to have a black Parliament what I see happening is something like what I read in an article entitled 'Pete's Week' in the 'Sunday Mail' of 18 November 1973. I do not criticise the 'Sunday Mail' for this article but I think it has a bearing on what people are saying about an Aboriginal or black Parliament. 
The article takes a look at the Aboriginal Parliament and shows the kind of denigration which will come out of this Consultative Committee. A cartoon depicts the  Speaker  of the Aboriginal Parliament saying: 'If the honourable member continues in this vein, I'll point the bone at him'. Just below that there is another cartoon supposedly depicting a member of the black Parliament saying: 'And make it retrospective- to the day Captain Cook landed'. Further down there is another cartoon of an honourable gentleman from the Aboriginal Parliament standing up and saying: 'I'm afraid the venerable member is still living in the dream time '. This is the kind of thing which is floating around Australia now about the concept of the black Parliament. There is so much confusion about it. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in answer to a question I asked some weeks ago in this chamber has informed me that there are about 30,000 or 40,000 Aborigines enrolled out of a population of 162,000. Many Aborigines will not enrol on a separate Aboriginal roll. They do not want a separate Aboriginal Parliament. There are ways in which Aborigines can be consulted without electing or establishing what we might call an Aboriginal bureaucracy. Another well known Aborigine from Queensland was referred to in an article in the Australian' on 19 November 1973 under the big headlines: 'Aboriginals refuse to vote in their own poll'. I wish to quote some of the words of this very prominent Queensland- Aborigine. The article states: 
Many Aboriginals have refusedto enrol to vote in the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee elections to be held on Saturday. 
This is an article written by  Mr L.  McBride from Queensland. The article continues: 
Only 1178 Aboriginals have enrolled in the electorate which takes in Brisbane and extends . . . north to Tin Can Bay and . . . west to Toowoomba. 

 Mr McBride said many Aboriginals did not want their names on the rolls. 
Later on the article states: 

 Mr McBride said many candidates in Saturday's elections were newcomers to Aboriginal politics. 
That is true. The article then quotes  Mr McBride  as saying: 
Some candidates have only felt the necessity to be involved since they found out there was a good job at the end- 
He is referring here to the end of the elections- and pretty good pay and privileges. 
I realise that politicians get good pay, but we have different roles to play. Our function here is to make the decisions but the Consultative Committee will act only in an advisory capacity to the Minister. There is so much confusion. We are told that the Committee will hold meetings in Canberra 3 times a year. What will be the functions of the members of the Committee for the rest of the year? What will they be doing? Will they be going around talking to the Aboriginal people in their districts or will they be sitting in a big office and waiting for the Aborigines to come and tell them what they want? I do not think there will be many Aborigines coming into the big, plush offices that the members of the Committee will have because basically the Aborigines who need advice are the Aborigines who will not come to a big. plush office in any city. They want people to go out and talk to them and to point out to them what benefits are available to them in the fields of education, employment and many other aspects on which they need advice. 
I have spoken on a number of occasions on this matter and I have condemned the idea of this National Aboriginal Consultative Committee for the reasons that I have endeavoured to outline on this place. Those reasons have been substantiated by another very prominent Aborigine and many other Aborigines in my own State of Queensland. I feel that the time has come when I, as the first Aboriginal to be elected as a parliamentarian, should make my thoughts known in this Parliament where decisions are made. I realise that it is too late to do anything before the elections which will take place next Saturday. But I do feel that the Aborigines will be brainwashed into a kind of auto-apartheid situation where they will be a separate section in the Australian community, and I do not want that to happen. 1 want to see Aborigines become part and parcel of the general Australian scene. I want to see Aborigines encouraged to take part in politics. 
Noises are coming from someone on the other side of the chamber who probably would not know an Aborigine if he fell over him. I happen to be an Aborigine and I have suffered some of the problems that are suffered by Aborigines today. I am very concerned at the double standards that we see today. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs the following question: Owing to the utter confusion in relation to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee election last Saturday and in view of the lack of training of Aboriginal enrollers and co-ordinators and the limited time allocated for the setting up of the necessary mechanics, will the Government accept the responsibility for the outcome rather than passing the blame on to the employed Aborigines? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. When the Government's Seas and Submerged Lands Bill becomes law and the Government will have the responsibility of the seas from the low water mark, what steps does it intend to take to police the coast of Australia, as the States are doing this work now? 
-As has been stated by  Senator Laucke  and my Country Party colleague,  Senator Lawrie,  we in Opposition do not oppose the Bill. We support it and I particularly welcome the Bill because it makes available about $32.2Sm for Aboriginal advancement. I am most relieved to note that about $14m will be channelled towards better housing for the Aboriginal people of Australia. Once again, I must stress that Aboriginal people in Australia today are in varying stages of development and contact with white society. Despite the criticism I have received for using those terms, I will continue to do so because I know that what I say is true. I do not mean to denigrate in any way any of my Aboriginal fellows when I say that. One needs to face up to the facts of life. I am an Aborigine and have moved amongst my fellow Aborigines, particularly in my own State. Especially since coming into Parliament, I have had an opportunity to move around the other States, seeing the conditions under which many Aboriginal people are living. 
I am sure that my colleagues on the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment will agree with me when I say that Aborigines are in varying stages of development. I do not think that money or legislation provide the whole answer to the question of the future of the Aboriginal people of Australia. I am also very pleased to note that $Sm is being made available to local government bodies. In my own State particularly, these organisations have played a very prominent part in finding and providing employment for the Aboriginal people in many areas. The problems of employment, housing, and education for Aboriginal people are real problems indeed that need to be tackled with a sense of responsibility and concern in order to ensure that the Aboriginal people are provided with a program of self-help and not a program of handouts, under which money is made available without complete and proper supervision over how it is spent, without ensuring that it is used in the best interests and to the advantage of the Aboriginal people. 
Over the last few months, I have noted with some concern the amount of money that has been made available. From some of the discussions that have taken place in this Parliament and in Estimates Committee hearings it appears that the expenditure of some of the money has not been properly supervised. Consequently, because of lack of supervision and perhaps unwise spending on the part of those responsible, the Aboriginal people are not truly benefiting from the large sums of money made available. During the course of the last few weeks, I have levelled some criticism at the Government for establishing a consultative committee. I do not back down from what I said. I still maintain that establishing this committee was not in the best interests of the Aboriginal people, yet I agree that there must be consultation with Aboriginal people. This must be done in the areas in which the Aboriginal people live. The people involved must meet with the Aboriginal people in the local area and environment to look at the problems with which they are faced in these important fields of housing, employment, education and health. 
A department has been established and is being maintained by expenditure of a sound amount of money, and I believe it is the responsibility of the officers of that department to consult with Aboriginal people in their own areas. The officers could go to places such as Charleville or Cunnamulla in Queensland, meeting the Aboriginal people there and looking at their problems and opportunities in housing, employment, education and health. They could discuss these problems with the Aboriginal people, finding out from them what they believe should be done on their behalf for their advancement. The officers should consult not only Aboriginal people but also the rest of the people in the area so that they can see how those people feel about integration. Do the people want Aborigines living in their community? Such an approach by the officers would help to bring about a better understanding and relationship between the Aboriginal people and the rest of the people in an area. 
That is the type of consultation that is so sorely needed. Having done that, the officers should get all the Aboriginal people together and ask them to nominate a competent Aborigine in the area in whom the other Aboriginal people have confidence and who they believe can do the job in the best interests of the people, liaising with and working amongst them. By this means, the Aboriginal people will be represented by a local person who understands the problems in the community and who has a proper and easy communication with his fellows in the area. In this way, many of the problems faced by Aboriginal people today could be solved, particularly in the important fields that I have already mentioned three or four times- housing, employment, education and health. In these fields, the Aboriginal people are facing and have faced for several years real problems. 
As I have said money and legislation are not the solutions to the problems of the Aboriginal people. If these problems are to be solved people will have to get their hands dirty. Work must be done amongst those who are need of counselling and guidance. A program of self-help must be introduced to help Aborigines to better themselves in the community so that they can become respected and responsible members of it as fellow Australians, not as something separate. Let us forget about this idea of separate development. We do not want separate development. We are Australians first and foremost. If the Government is fair dinkum, let it ensure that there will be consultations on the spot with Aboriginal people so that they can take advantage of some of the opportunities available to them today. I certainly support the Bill. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will see to it that his Department keeps more careful scrutiny on the expenditure of this money so that it is used in the best interests of the Aboriginal people for thenadvancement. 
My colleague mentioned money being made available to some of the voluntary organisations. These organisations work in all the States, doing a remarkably good job. Unfortunately, some of these organisations, because of a lack of training, education, or business sense, have not always been wise in the way they have spent this money. I do not believe that parliamentarians should criticise or condemn the Aboriginal people for what has happened. What we should condemn and criticise is the Department that has allowed this to happen by its lack of supervision to ensure that the organisations were equipped to handle sensibly the money made available to them. There are quite a number of these organisations in Queensland. Despite what governments can do, as you  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and I know, they cannot do everything. There must be voluntary organisations in various social service fields and not only in the field of Aboriginal development. 
Some voluntary organisations can do much better work because they are more closely in contact with the people, knowing the needs of the people better than they are known by a government department. I agree that the voluntary organisations working in the field of Aboriginal advancement must certainly be given some financial assistance by the Government. But by the same token I plead with the Minister to ensure that these organisations are properly geared to handle the amounts of money that are allocated to them so that it can be used in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. As a matter of fact, we welcome this measure whereby the Grants Commission is making available to the less populous States of Australia, namely Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland, a substantial amount of money. I should perhaps confine my remarks to my own State of Queensland as I feel that other honourable senators will be speaking on behalf of their own States. As I understand it, originally Queensland made a submission to the Grants Commission in December 1971. Queensland's need to go to the Grants Commission arose because of the State's situation compared with other States' allocations of financial assistance grants. 
In 1971, New South Wales and Victoria's financial assistance grants had been increased by $2 per capita. Also, the States had been given the power to raise payroll tax. The Financial assistance grant was reduced by what would have been collected on the 2.5 per cent level. Queensland's taxable capacity is considerably lower, we know, than that of other States. The question of receipt duty was found to be unconstitutional, as we have learned, and therefore the Commonwealth Government paid to the States what would have been collected under receipt duty. Queensland's share was again relatively low as compared with the other States. 
Queensland had always contended that it was receiving a poor share of the financial assistance grant. In fact Queensland convinced the Federal Government of this and was given an extra $2m each year. Even with this, Queensland was still receiving too low a share of the overall payments made to the States. The sum of $9m was granted to Queensland for 1971-72, $10m was advanced for 1972-73 and a further advance of $10m made for 1973-74. 
The Commission makes the overall sum available to the States with no ties on what the money is to be used for or how it is to be spent. In fact, it ensures by its system that the States are not bound to account for where the money is intended to be used or in what manner. We have a very responsible Government in Queensland led by a very responsible person named  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  The sum is divided over a whole field of State expenditures. However, even with the State grant, Queensland is still budgeting for a deficit. 
By having a look at the Queensland Budget and the expenditure involved I learn that the largest additional call on the State Government is the provision required to keep pace with the spiralling costs of salaries, wages and materials. The amount necessary to pay a full year's cost of award increases since the previous Budget, and to provide for further increases expected during the year, was $73.7m, and the Queensland State Government allowed for other contingency costs to increase by 8 per cent. Looking through what my State is doing in relation to education I note that the Queensland Government has provided for 28.2 per cent more than the previous year's allocation of $ 142.2m, which will allow for something like 1,829 additional teachers to bring the total strength to 16,763. 
The State Government has provided also for the introduction of teacher aides for secondary schools, special schools, and some primary and Aboriginal schools, as well as the employment of library aides for all primary schools. This is quite a big drain on the State purse. This scheme will get under way from the 1974 school year and will provide employment for 1 , 788 aides. 
Payments to school libraries will increase this year. As we all understand, this is a very important part of our education system. It is interesting and very pleasing to note that Queensland has looked at this matter very carefully. The Queensland Government has also introduced payments to high schools of $6 per annum per student to replace the amounts which were previously collected by way of a general purpose fee. The Queensland Government has increased textbook allowances to grade 8 students. It has increased conveyance allowances. It has increased school bus transport rates. It has increased subsidies to the Creche Kindergarten Association for affiliated kindergartens. It has provided further assistance to organisations providing services to handicapped and subnormal children and has provided considerably greater assistance to cultural groups in my State. 
Matters of health in Queensland are also costing the State Government quite a considerable amount. Expenditure other than on hospitals has been increased by 24.6 per cent. Further assitance has been provided for home nursing services. Provision has been made for development of community health services in line with recommendations of the Commonwealth interim committee. The Queensland Government has provided also for community home care and the amount provided was nearly double the previous year's allocation. Hospital expenditure has increased 23.6 per cent over the previous year's provision. Many other allocation have been made. I am quite sure the Senate will understand why I welcome these measures which provide a substantial amount of money to the less populous States of our nation. On behalf of the Opposition I welcome this measure. 
Motion (by  Senator O'Byrne)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Senator Wriedt)  agreed to: 
That the report of the Committee be adopted and that the question be now put. 
-I wish to associate myself with the expressions of condolence on the death of  Dr Cameron.  For some time I was a constituent of his as I lived in his electorate of Oxley. I did not know him during his parliamentary career, but I got to know him during his retirement. I know that he was loved and respected by many people. He served his State of Queensland very well indeed. He served his nation also with great distinction.  Mr President, 

 Mrs Cameron has lost a beloved husband.  His  children have lost a beloved father. I say,  Sir, that  Australia has lost a true son. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Is there any purpose in the expenditure of taxpayers' money for the purchasing of outdated, white cotton, boxer-style long-legged underpants as issued to members of our defence forces, especially when the members of the forces abhor the old-fashioned style and are forced to spend their own money to equip themselves with more modern and comfortable underpants?  Mr President,  I have here a set of these underpants which I would like to hand to the Minister so that he may investigate this matter and save the taxpayers' money on something that is of no use to our defence forces. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. As a result of a capitulation and subsequent paternalistic handling by the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the recent situation concerning an Aboriginal senior public servant, does he feel that a grave disservice has been rendered to my fellow Aborigines? If so, does he see a flow-on bringing violence amongst the young and more frustrated members of my race? 
-It is with a rather deep sense of pride that I have risen to take part in this debate. In saying that I am not saying that I agree with the contents of the Address given by  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen. I am quite sure that I am speaking on behalf of the vast majority of Australians when I say that I am proud that  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen saw fit to come to Australia to open the Second Session of the 28th Parliament. 
I am sick and tired of having to listen to the chatter that has come from the other side of the 
House during the last 12 months about the actions of the Opposition. Time and again I have heard it said that the Opposition is frustrating the Government by refusing to allow its legislation to pass through this chamber. On making inquiries I have ascertained that since the Labor Government came to office some 223 Bills have passed through this House. Is that frustrating the Government? I think not. I do not think the people of Australia agree with the claims that the Opposition has frustrated the Government. Over this period the Opposition certainly has either rejected or deferred consideration of some of the measures that have been introduced by the Government, but it rejected or deferred consideration of those Bills because it believed that they were not in the best interests of the nation and the people of Australia. Surely that is a function of this House. The Senate is a House of review, a House of scrutiny. I can assure honourable senators that that is what the members of the present Opposition will continue to do while ever they remain on the Opposition benches, which will not be for such a long time. 
I wish to refer now to something that was raised in this chamber yesterday. I refer to the criticism of the Queensland Government by  Senator Milliner,  who said that it had not given one cent towards assisting the people of Queensland who were affected by the devastating floods that occurred in Queensland just recently. I understand that the Queensland floods began quite a long time before Ipswich or Brisbane were affected. The Gulf country, including the towns of Normanton, Karumba and Uran.dangie, were deluged early in the piece and on 20 January this year those towns and surrounding properties were evacuated. People lost their homes and their stock. No one had ever seen devastation like it before. What happened at that time? The Queensland Government initiated the evacuation of the people in those areas and provided assistance to them. All of the charter aircraft used in the evacuation in that section of the State at that time were paid for by the Queensland Government. All food drops and medical supplies- there was quite a substantial amount of this- were also financed by the Queensland Government. To provide these food drops and medical supplies the Queensland Government chartered commercial aircraft and used them quite extensively throughout the Gulf country as well as in and around other parts of Queensland. I hasten to say at this point that I in no way wish to denigrate the magnificent work that was done by the Royal Australian Air Force and the other Services, which nobly came into the picture at this time. 
-That is beside the point at this time. It was the Queensland Government which approached the Federal Government. Naturally they were provided by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who is in charge of the Defence forces in a kind of way. As we have seen in recent years, he has not shown a great deal of interest in the Defence forces. I will have something to say about that later on. It is interesting to note that  Senator Milliner's  criticism was only of the Queensland Government. 
Where was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  while all this was going on? Where was he while the Premier of Queensland, the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland and the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia were going into the flood devastated areas with their trousers rolled up to help the people out? The Prime Minister was away from Australia. What was he attending? He was not attending the devastated areas of Queensland. He was in New Zealand at the Commonwealth Games. That is where the Prime Minister, who is supposed to be so concerned about Australia and the people of Australia, was  to be found. Our Prime  Minister, Australia 's Cassius Clay, returned to Australia, ignored the plight of the Queensland people and proceeded on a 16-day trip to South East Asia. During the time that he was in Australia, before he went to South East Asia, he would have had time to jump on a VIP aircraft, which naturally would be at the disposal of the Prime Minister, to go to the flood devastated areas of Queensland, to look at Karumba where people lost everything they had owned, to fly to Mt Isa to see what was happening there and to fly to Normanton where all the people had to be evacuated. No, he would not do that. It reminds me of something that happened some years ago. A former Prime Minister was alleged to have said: 'I will go all the way with LBJ'. 
I agree that he did. The present Prime Minister seems to be hell bent on his desire to 'bow to  Chairman  Mao'. The people in Queensland were suffering and the Queensland Government was doing all that it could, but in this chamber  Senator Milliner  stated that not one cent was given to the Queensland Government to the people in distress. As I understand the position, in the initial stages, to help the people overcome the initial devastation, $500,000 was given by the 
Queensland Government. To match that grant, the most gracious Federal Government gave $600,000 at that time. We were told by one of the Government senators that the State Government gave nothing. 
Let me refer to something else which the Queensland Government did. Under the leadership of  Mr Hodges,  the Queensland Minister for Works and Housing, 121 families were housed very quickly in Housing Commission homes. The total number of people in those families was something like 500. They were housed overnight by the Queensland Minister for Works and Housing. This was done by the State Government which, it was said, did nothing for the people of Queensland. I think that my statement speaks for itself. The Queensland Government certainly did a magnificent job. I take nothing away from the efforts of the Federal Government. I am conscious, as are other people in Queensland, of the work which the Federal Government did when it came into the picture, in the final analysis. There were negotiations between Federal Ministers and the State Premier and  Deputy  Premier. We are grateful for the help that came from the Federal Government. I think it is quite unfair and unjustified for any honourable senator to criticise the State Government in an attempt to gain some political kudos at the expense of the people of Queensland because he is seeking re-election this year. 
I wish now to touch very briefly on another issue. It relates to the report of the AuditorGeneral on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Tonight poor old grandfather on the other side clowned for about 1 hour 10 minutes. It was typical of the Government. From reading the Auditor-General's report, the mismanagement and the apparent bungling which went on in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are typical of the kind of thing which we would expect from this Government. I am sure that many Queenslanders and many Australians such as myself, both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal, would be shocked at what has come out in the report. I hope that the Government will have the courage to accept the responsibility for what has happened in that Department. I sincerely hope that it will not be looking for a scapegoat on whom to pin the blame. I realise that a lot of that money was made available to Aboriginal people in various parts of Australia and to Aboriginal organisations. Perhaps they did not have business sense. Perhaps some of the money was used unwisely. But the responsibility for some of the things that happened certainly cannot be put at the feet of the Aboriginal people. I believe that it is the responsibility of the relevant Minister and, finally, the Government. 
There have been times when I have been rather amused by honourable senators opposite talking about this Government's tremendous mandate. I heard the phrase used quite a lot this evening. Honourable senators opposite continually boast of this great mandate which they have. Without wanting to seem to be boasting, I would say that I have the greatest mandate of any member of this Parliament at present, because 525,000 Queenslanders felt that I should be representing them in this chamber. Surely those people cannot be wrong. My colleagues and I will continue to safeguard the interests of the people whom we represent. The Senate is a House of scrutiny and a House in which we look at the legislation which the Government is bringing forward. I assure the Senate that, if we find that it is not in the best interests of the people of this nation, not only will we defer it until we can make a closer examination of it but we will reject it. 
I wish to deal now with some of the things which have been said this evening about education. I am conscious that enormous amounts have been made available for education. I, like my colleagues, spent many hours in this chamber asking this Government not to take away the per capita grants from certain Australian children. But the Government seemed to be of the opinion that children who are to receive any government assistance in their education must attend a government school. The Government adopts the attitude: 'Big Brother will look after you. You must send your children to a government school'. The fact that people in the community prefer to send their children either to a religious school or to some private school, for reasons of their own, does not matter to this Government. It says: 'If you want any assistance, you must send them to government schools. The fact that you pay taxes, which are collected and sent to Canberra, does not matter at all. You must pay those taxes, and you must help with the upkeep of the schools to which you wish to send your children. 
The Government speaks about wealthy schools. Why are the schools wealthy? They are wealthy because people have worked and have made sacrifices to that their children will get the best education money can provide. Nevertheless, these people must contribute to the nation's economy through taxes. That is another example of the hypocrisy of this Government in its attitude towards education. Yet it tries to blow its own trumpet and say what a wonderful job it is doing.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at another time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before the Senate rose last week I was mentioning a few matters to which reference had been made in this chamber in relation to the Government's claims that it had a mandate to carry out certain things. When I looked at what had happened since this Government came to power I found that some of the promises which it made during electioneering certainly had not been carried out. My colleague  Senator Carrick  mentioned the matter of defence, the amounts which had been cut from the Budget and the confusion which is now taking place in the armed Services. I find that the Government certainly has not carried out its election promises in that field or, as I mentioned earlier, in the field of education. I referred also to the rural industries. Just recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when speaking to a group of people said: 'You have never had it better in your lives before'. This makes one wonder whether members of the Government know very much at all about rural industries. We live in a country where we aresubjected to various seasonal changes. 
One year we could have floods, the next year we could have droughts, and the year after we could have bushfires. To say that the farmers or the men on the land have never had it so good is really stretching the imagination. They may have had a good season this year, but that does not mean that good seasons will continue for the next four or five years. So again we find that the Government does not seem to have any true conception of the problems which are faced by people in the rural industry as well as in other spheres. 
In view of some of the things which have happened recently, I have become rather concerned particularly in relation to the problems which are facing members of my race. As the first and only, to date, elected Aboriginal member of Parliament, I seek the indulgence of the Senate for I feel compelled at this point in time, because of what is happening to my race with threats of violence and the inevitable backlash which will take place, to refer today to 3 sections of the Australian community. My first appeal would be to those of my race who are young, frustrated, eager and impatient for change and who, I feel, have been led to believe that violent demand is the answer to the present problems facing our people. I do not believe that threats of violence nor the kind of violent actions, a sample of which we have seen recently in Canberra, will achieve what is needed to right the wrongs of the past or of the future. We, the Aboriginal people of this nation, need to gain the support of this Parliament, the support of the State parliaments and most importantly the support of the general Australian community. 
There has been and still is talk of black power. If the young of my race mean the kind of black power which says that I am proud of my race and I am as good as the next person, and if they get out and help themselves in the white man's environment and beat him at his own game, I say that is good black power. I warn my young friends that I will have no truck with the other kind of black power which, I know, brings in its wake violence, and I warn against it as I have done previously and as I will continue to do.I say to those of my race who are young, who have had the advantage of an education and who are articulate: 'Use these God given talents to influence the thinking of non-Aboriginal communities'. 
Many of them have had the opportunity of working within the system. Many have had the opportunity to become members of various committees, and they can do much for the Aboriginal race and the Aboriginal cause. Many, through hard work and study, have attained important positions in the community, and they have grave responsibilities. Their task is a very important one. There are times, I know, when they will become frustrated and impatient, and they will ask themselves what the heck is the use. I say to them that the attitudes of a lifetime cannot be changed overnight. I know that these changes must come. Many young people of my race can do much by working within the present system because I believe that the present system can be made to work for Aborigines by Aborigines. I warn again the young and impatient of my race not to let themselves be brainwashed into believing that violence can solve the problems which are of concern to all members of the Aboriginal race because those people who encourage them along this course are evil and have no true concern for the benefit or the cause of the Aboriginal people. 
Through the forum of this Parliament let me now address myself to the older members of my race- those who, like me, have suffered so much because of past discrimination and prejudice; those who, because of the attitudes of the past, have lived in squalor on the banks of creeks and have seen the destruction of their culture, yet have been able to fight back and to give their children the best education that those conditions would permit. Like me, they have a responsibility that is perhaps greater now than ever before. We have seen many changes; some good, some perhaps not so good. We have seen changes of government and changes in attitudes of the people towards the Aboriginal cause. I believe that we are now seeing genuine concern for the advancement of our people, although much remains to be done. We must ensure that the genuine problems of health, housing, education and employment, along with the associated problems, are solved satisfactorily. 
I say this to my race: Whilst we remember the bad things and endeavour to rectify them, let us also put on record our appreciation of the good things, such as the hand of friendship that has been extended and the opportunities that are now being offered. We must become involved. We must speak so that we can be a steadying influence on our younger people who speak of black power and violence. We who have crossed so many dry gullies and have known hunger, despair and discrimination in its worst form have paved a much smoother way for the younger members of our race. Now we see the light at the end of the tunnel and I hope that we will not allow it to be blocked by irresponsible actions by our young people and by non-Aborigines who would use them for their own political gain. There are within our community people who are doing that very thing at this very time. 
Finally, I address myself to the nonAboriginal section of the community.  Mr Deputy President,  your forefathers have a lot to answer for- the poisoned flour, the shooting, the destruction of hunting ranges and hence the destruction of Aboriginal culture. Whether this was done through ignorance or greed or for whatever reason, nonetheless it is history. Although we should not dwell upon it, I believe that you, the descendants of the conquerors, should learn from history in arriving at guidelines for the present and future. I believe that you have much to put right. 
There is talk of a white backlash. As an Aborigine, I cannot help asking why this should be. We, the Aborigines, are now being given opportunities that hitherto were denied to us. Surely this is just when one considers the past. I am conscious of the fact that there are in the community non-Aborigines who are in need of considerable assistance, but I do not believe that that is any reason to knock what is being done for the descendants of the conquered. This is our right by birth. I plead with those of the non-Aboriginal races who are part of the so-called backlash to try to understand that what is being done by governments is the true entitlement of the indigenous people who have been dispossessed of what was truly theirs. I say to them that their intolerance can only add fuel to the fires that have been kindled by those who want to see racial unrest in our wonderful nation. 
Now,  Mr Deputy President,  perhaps you will permit me to address myself to members of the Parliament. I believe it is time- to adopt a phrase- that Aboriginal advancement and the cause of the Aboriginal people became an issue far and above Party politics. I say to you, my colleagues: Stop taking political kudos from a problem that should be concerning us all. I believe that the indigenous people of this nation are entitled to be given opportunities, encouragement and assistance to enable them to become respected and responsible members in the community. Let us stop making this matter a political football. I have listened in this chamber and read the Hansard of the other place and I have seen where the Aboriginal people have been tossed from one side to the other as though they were a political football, to gain a point here and to gain a point there, at the cost of the lives of so many. Governments still have not solved the high death rate of Aboriginal children in many parts of Australia. There is still a great deal to be done. I am grateful for what has been done and for the efforts that have been made to assist Aborigines, but sometimes I am sick at heart because we are being made a political football. 

 Mr Deputy President, I felt that I should say the things that I have said because this is the first time that the voice of the Aboriginal people has been heard in this chamber. I realise that I have responsibilities to all sections of the Australian community, but I feel also that I have a particular responsibility to people of my own race. 
-I am very pleased that we on the Opposition benches are giving this Bill a speedy passage. I am very pleased to be part of the Opposition that is acting in that way at this time. However, I was rather disappointed to hear the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Mr 
Hayden) in this chamber, speak so glowingly of the tremendous increase of $3 a week that is now to be given to our senior citizens. To some extent, I agree with  Senator Little  who said that he would like to see the whole matter of pensions taken out of the political field. I wish that we could devise some means of doing that. I also wish that we would stop using the term 'pensioners' when referring to our senior citizens. Today we are enjoying the fruits of the labours of our senior citizens. They are the people who built this nation and helped to make it prosper. We are enjoying much of what they have contributed during their life span. In their twilight years they are more than entitled to help from the Government. A man now aged 65 years probably started work at 17 years of age. He would have paid taxes for more than 40 years and would have helped to build this nation in many ways as well. Through circumstances beyond their control, our older people may not have saved as much as they need for their comfort in their later years. I believe that they are entitled to a share of the nation's wealth. 
I am pleased that our senior citizens are to receive a pension increase of $3 a week, but when it is related to the current rate of inflation and the high cost of living I am afraid that it will not be of great benefit to them. They still have to pay the same amount for half a pound of butter as other people pay. They still have to pay the same amount for a little tin of jam. Three dollars will not be of great benefit to them, I am afraid, because of the mismanagement of the Government in allowing the high rate of inflation and the high cost of living. The Minister said that the unemployment and sickness benefits also are to be increased. I have no objection to that. I commend it. Some people within the community fall on hard times and unfortunately are not able to work for a living. They are entitled to assistance. The same is true of people who are genuinely ill and are unable to work to earn the money they need to support themselves and their families. I have nothing against that. 
My objection is to the number of people who today are taking advantage of the unemployment benefit. I speak with most experience of my home State of Queensland. When I look around there I see people who are prepared to live on social security payments because of the high rate that is being paid. I could cite many instances. In my home town there is a man who has a number of children and works for the local council. He brings home a pay packet of $75 a week after paying tax. There is a gentleman- I call him that for want of a better word- who lives in the same street and who, to my knowledge has not worked for the last 2 years. He brings home $85 a week for which he does not have to work. Does it give any encouragement to a man who is working, supporting his family and paying his taxes when he knows that there are other people living on social security benefits who never do a day's work? 
You have had your say, let me have mine. 
We have heard a lot of senseless prattle from  Senator O'Byrne.  I am speaking of something that is relevant to the Bill. If you want to prattle, Grandad, do it in your own time and not in mine. I have only about one minute left. I would be very pleased if the Government would look more closely at payment of the unemployment benefit. Whilst we are prepared to pay social security benefits to those people who are genuinely unemployed and are looking for work so that they can be helped over a bad spot, I think we also should be looking at the people who are receiving the unemployment benefit and are not prepared to make any contribution at all. When I was a boy I lived in New South Wales. At the time my stepfather was unemployed and in receipt of the unemployment benefit, although at that time it was called relief. But there was no way in the world that he could go down to an office and pick an amount of money. He had to do a certain amount of work before he could receive relief funds. I cannot for the life of me see why a similar requirement cannot be applied today. I strongly urge the Government to examine a scheme by which unemployment benefits could be paid into a local government, city council or similar body and instead of a bloke just being able to walk down to an Employment Service office and pick up his 75 or 80 bucks a week he would have to do a certain amount of work for the money. A lot of work can be done by these people. There are parks and gardens to be attended to and there are senior citizens who are in need of assistance. This is the kind of work these people who are receiving unemployment benefit could be doing. 
Honourable senators can rest assured that if many of these people who are drawing unemployment benefit and are doing nothing for it had to do some work in order to receive that money they would certainly look around for a permanent job. Whilst they are allowed and encouraged to accept this kind of benefit without making any effort to work themselves they will continue to do so. We will be encouraging people to become dependants of governments. Perhaps this is the kind of situation that the present socialist government would like to see. Perhaps it would like to see people dependent on governments. If that situation arose we would have to go to Big Brother with our caps in our hands all the time. It is not the kind of thing I want to see in this country of ours. I am very pleased to be able to help to give this Bill a speedy passage through the House. I hope that the senior citizens and other people who will benefit by the provisions of this Bill will be able to receive their payments at the earliest possible time. 
-Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that an increasing proportion of our small eletronic componentry used in the manufacture and maintenance of domestic television sets, radiograms, radios, etc., is being purchased overseas by companies which previously manufactured these items in Australia? If so, does the Minister realise what effect these changes will have on the ultimate future of our national security, bearing in the mind the increasing reliance of our defence system on the eletronics industry? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation and Minister assisting the Minister for Defence aware that considerable unrest exists among members of the defence forces arising out of the failure to distribute the surplus funds of the Defences Forces Retirement Benefits Fund? Is the surplus $14m? If so, what steps, if any, is the Government taking to distribute these funds? 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that a Press report has stated that the Prime Minister has declared that 'Advance Australia Fair' will now be the Australian national anthem? Does he believe that the opinion of 52 per cent of 60,000 Australians is a true reflection of the will of 13 million Australians? Will the Prime Minister conduct a referendum giving all Australians the right to say whether they want the national anthem changed? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay and urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people then introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
Rural Policy in Australia 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate what will be the financial gain to the State governments that shirk their responsibility for Aboriginal affairs and hand this responsibility to the Australian Government? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the Queensland Government allocated $7m to Aboriginal advancement in that State for the year 1973-74? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate of the allocation of moneys by the Australian Government to Queensland for Aboriginal advancement for the same period? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, by referring to a question that I asked of him on 13 November 1973. At that time I asked: 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of Press reports that 3 Aborigines are protesting at the bombing of Quail Island, which they claim is sacred? Will he inform the Senate what steps he intends to take to assist the Aborigines to preserve the right of their Aboriginal tribe which is making a claim regarding the sacredness of this island? 
I ask: Is the Minister aware that the bombing is continuing? I have received this day a telegram from members of the Wagait tribe seeking my support. Will the Minister inform the Senate as to what steps he is taking as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to assist this Aboriginal group in its fight to preserve Quail Island? 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to Press reports of a brawl between Aborigines and sailors in Adelaide. Has the Minister received any response from the South Australian Government to his request to hold an inquiry into this matter? 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs might recall that on 24 July I asked him a question concerning Quail Island. I should like to quote part of his answer, which was: 
We have had no communication from Aboriginal communities that they make a claim for Quail Island. 
Is the Minister aware of a telegram that was sent to the Minister for Defence in Canberra and to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Darwin? I quote the contents of that telegram, namely: 
Why have you ignored our petition and starting bombing our sacred dreaming place Quail Island? Turtle breeding is also disturbed. Gwatwa Daraniki plans confrontation unless you reconsider. Urgent. 
An answer to that telegram was received. I quote the answer: 
Negotiations are under way to see - 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Prime Minister to today's transport workers stoppage and to threatened interruptions in petrol supplies to several States which may upset airline schedules. I ask the Minister for an assurance that the work of the Parliament will not be interrupted by these stoppages and that any joint sitting of the 2 Houses will take place. As all honourable senators and members were elected to represent the people of Australia, will he guarantee that parliamentarians will be able to reach Canberra to carry out their duties here next week? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that some 20 months ago he directed his Department to transfer 1,500 square miles of land to the Gurindji tribe in the Northern Territory? If so, when can the transfer be expected to be completed? Will the Minister be kind enough to let the Gurindji tribe know the progress to date? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the Australian Government plans to drop the prefix 'HMAS' from the names of our warships? 
I  present the following petition from 42 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United 
States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions similarly worded have already been presented I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
I  present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Federal National Parliament of Australia by Pensioners and the Public who do care to be presented to the House of Representatives (Lower House) and House of the Senate (Upper House), to the Honourable  Speaker  of each House, we ask as members of the Public that: a Nationalized Government and Private transport system be established. that Pensioners transport be made free within the Federation where the Government has constitutional powers. to make all Government and Private transport free within the Federation to Pensioners and all other underprivileged members of the community. 
Although the pension has been increased by $1.50 the high cost of living has effectively made this increase worthless, consequently the above actions are considered to require urgent National Government Action. 
Petition received and read. 
-In accordance with the notice I gave on 1 1 July this year, I move: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
I might be pardoned for mentioning some of the references in the statement of claim. The plaintiff is a member and descendant of the Aboriginal people and alleges that prior to the invasion of the continent of Australia by persons from the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Ireland, the Aboriginal people enjoyed exclusive possession of the continent. Further, by reason of the facts set out in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the statement of claim, he alleges that all Aborigines had a relationship with the whole continent of Australia. Of course, it will be noticed that this motion before the Senate seeks a declaration that that is so and if it were proceeded with we would be prejudging the matter that is now before the court by a declaration of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. Furthermore, my Department has received a letter from Messrs Baker and McKenzie, solicitors and attorneys, asking for some assistance and advising that they are acting for  Mr Paul  Coe and that the matter will come before the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court on 26 September 1974. From the Press reports of the preliminary hearing of this matter we find that  Mr Paul  Thomas Coe is also seeking an order restraining the Commonwealth from granting Queensland Mines Limited any mining lease or exploration licence which would allow the company to carry out mining in the Northern Territory area of Narbalek. The writ, which was brought before  Mr Justice  Fox yesterday afternoon, seeks orders to prevent persons from conducting mining activities without first consulting the plaintiff,  Mr Coe. Mr Kelly,  who represented  Mr Coe  in these proceedings, said that there was a claim by the whole of the Australian community to the whole of the Australian continent. He said that all Aborigines were entitled to all benefits obtained from the land and to take part in any decisions which might be made about the land. This is one of the claims of the plaintiff in this action. He said that any decision would have to be made on the basis of support for the great majority of the Aboriginal communities. 

 His Honour  Mr Justice  Fox said that he was considering the action as an urgent ex parte application and he was prepared to keep an open mind on what he called an unusual application of a novel concept. The application is a declaration that the whole of Australia was owned by Aboriginals. When a matter is before a court we must take great care that we protect not only the interest of the applicant to the action but also the interests of all other parties appearing before the court. Today I had a telephone conversation with  Mr Newman  of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service of New South Wales. He is the solicitor who is briefing counsel. He has made certain representations to me and has made known to me the case to be made out. Today I rang  Mr Newman  to see whether he thought that the debate, the discussion or any decision on the notice of motion could in any way affect the court hearing.  His  reply was that he was of the opinion that it would depend upon how much  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox could be influenced by the decision that was made here today. It may be that it would not influence  His  Honour's judgment on this particular question, but when there is a possibility of it I think it would be improper and against the procedure we have followed on this question to proceed with the discussion today. It could prejudice the hearing and it could prejudice some of the people who are involved in this action. 
I understand that there is agreement that after  Senator Bonner  moves the notice of motion the debate will be adjourned. However, time will not permit a complete decision on this question so I do not know what is the value in bringing it on today when we could be infringing the normal procedures of discussing a matter at a time when it is sub judice. 
Sub judice matters- Matters still under adjudication in a court of law cannot be brought forward in debate. That is to say, the Senate will not permit a debate which, in the normal way, would be regarded, if it occured outside Parliament, as a contempt of those court  procedings.  But the rule is not always confined to those limits. 
Assuming that that is a fair statement of the position so far as the Parliament is concerned, let us see how it relates here to whether the discussion of this matter would be regarded, if it occurred outside Parliament, as a contempt of the Court proceedings to which  Senator Cavanagh  has referred. Let me by way of introduction to this consideration remind you,  Mr President,  that the Senate is not proposing at the moment to legislate in any way which would affect the rights of the parties involved in the litigation. 
It is of extreme public interest that no conduct should be permitted which is likely to prevent a litigant in a court of justice from having his case tried free from all matter of prejudice. But the administration of justice, important though it undoubtedly is, is not the only matter in which the public is vitally interested; and if in the course of the ventilation of a question of public concern matter is published which might prejudice a party in the conduct of a law suit, it does not follow that a contempt has been committed. The case may be one in which as between competing matters of public interest the possibility of prejudice to a litigant may be required to yield to other and superior considerations. The discussion of public affairs and the denunciation of public abuses, actual or supposed, cannot be required to be suspended merely because the discussion or the denunciation may, as an incidental but not intended by-product, cause some likelihood of prejudice to a person who happens at the time to be a litigant. 
It is well settled that a person cannot be prevented by process of contempt from continuing to discuss publicly a matter which may fairly be regarded as one of public interest, by reason merely of the fact that the matter in question has become the subject of litigation, or that a person whose conduct is being publicly criticised has become a party to litigation either as plaintiff or defendant, and whether in relation to the matter which is under discussion or with respect to some other matter. 
That portion of the judgment of  Sir Frederick  Jordan has been referred to in decisions of the High Court, and in particular in James v. Robinson (1963), with approval, and is, I believe, the law applying in Australia. The matter then is to see how applicable it is to this particular discussion and whether the discussion which is sought by  Senator Bonner  of the position relating to the rights to any form of compensation which members of the Aboriginal people of Australia may have is a matter of public interest. Undeniably- I am sure that  Senator Cavanagh  would agree- it is a matter of great public interest. 
It would be incredible to suggest that any witness might be put off or frightened in any way by the debate which might take place in this chamber. It is incredible to believe that any judge would be affected in bis judgment by the debate which would take place in this chamber. I will quote briefly from a decision made in 1965. 
What the Lord Justice was there saying, in my judgment, is that, if you had such a discussion in a paper of the rights of some pending litigation as is calculated to prejudice the proper trial of the action, that is a serious contempt which will be met with the necessary punishment. I do not think it is right to take that statement out of its context and say that anything which happens to amount to or be the equivalent to a discussion of the rights of some party's case in an action is thereby a contempt. The test must always be, in my judgment, whether or not in the circumstances of the particular case what has happened is something that is likely to prejudice the fair trial of the action, and the risk that it will prejudice the fair trial of the action must be a real risk. 
Referring to the likelihood or otherwise of judges being affected, it was stated in the quite famous Quinton Hogg case in 1968 in the United Kingdom: 
Though the court has jurisdiction to consider an allegation of contempt of itself, the jurisdiction will never be used to protect the court against criticism of itself or its decisions in exercise of the right to freedom of speech. 
In continuing, a comment was made that I think is appropriate here. It was: 
It is the right of every man, in Parliament or out of it, in the Press or over the broadcast, to make fair comment, even outspoken comment, on matters of public interest. Those who comment can deal faithfully with all that is done in a court of justice. They can say that we are mistaken, and our decisions erroneous, whether they are subject to appeal or not. 
Reference is then made to the right of  Mr Quinton  Hogg to criticise the proceedings. I believe that so far as the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory is concerned it would adopt a similar attitude. No debate in this Parliament is likely adversely to affect a judge in the carrying out of his duty. It would be different if it were to be a jury. This matter will be heard by  Mr Justice  Fox. It is not likely, by being discussed today, in any way to affect a fair trial either by frightening witnesses, putting off the plaintiff or the defendant or affecting the judge. In my submission,  Mr President,  it is clearly a matter which should proceed and is in no way sub judice. 
I will go even further than  Senator Rae  did. If one analyses the court case it seems to me that the plaintiff is really relying upon the existing legal rights. He is saying there is a legal right and that he is entitled in the administration of the law to a specific order from the court. That is one issue. It seems to me that what is raised here by  Senator Bonner,  when it is analysed, is a different issue. If honourable senators read  Senator Bonner's  motion carefully they will find, it seems to me, that he is saying that the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as the Aborigines and Torres Strait islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to 1788 and the First Fleet landing at Botany Bay. That is not a contention of existing legal right but something that no one would question at all. 
But that situation does not arise in this context. On  Senator Murphy's  suggestion, or rather on the implication in his suggestion, a decision on whether the plaintiff is being prejudiced can be taken only on subsequent statements made by  Senator Bonner.  Those statements may or may not cause you,  Mr President,  to invoke the sub judice rule on the application of a senator. I think that  Senator Cavanagh,  who always has been a staunch upholder of the rights of the Senate, is ill advised to attempt to invoke the sub judice rule before the honourable senator whose motion has been on the notice paper since July is able to make a statement in the context of his motion. Such a course would stifle him in his duties as a senator. 
The courts have ruled constantly on these matters. I remember quoting to the Senate one such ruling of this order and nature: The court does not hear the arguments that take place within the walls of Parliament. It is not our function here in the Senate to protect, as it were, the courts and the judges. The courts, and the judges presiding over them, are quite capable of protecting themselves. What we have to avoid at all costs is invoking this sub judice rule to prevent senators from standing in their places and discussing matters of public interest. Therefore I conclude as I began: The test must be whether or not the plaintiff before the courts is prejudiced by discussion which takes place in the Parliament. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, by referring to a statement in the Queensland 'Courier Mail' newspaper of 21 September 1974, which was attributed to  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, concerning the Australian Government's intended acquisition of some 7,500,000 acres of land currently reserved by the Queensland Government for use by Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. If the Minister is so concerned about Aboriginal land rights in Queensland, is he prepared to go to the extent of moving that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my motion, as introduced on Thursday, 19 September 1974, from being fully debated and voted upon? Should it be carried, with or without the support of the Minister, would he be prepared to urge his Government to introduce legislation to implement the proposals contained in my motion? 
I present the following petition from 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 1. The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to the distress in the textile industry of Queensland which is causing widespread unemployment, particularly in small country towns and cities. Will the Minister give an assurance that he will facilitate an application to the Industries Assistance Commission for emergency tariff protection of these industries? 
-Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister report on a probable date of receipt of the Remuneration Tribunal report by  Mr Justice  Campbell in relation to academic salaries? If a delay in receipt of the application of the report is anticipated, will consideration be given to an immediate interim increase of 25 per cent? Will steps be taken to ensure that there is no delay in making funds available to enable institutions to pay adjusted salaries? 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth:- Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation. 
All family matters must come out of the Legal System. 
There must be No Lawyers- No Courts- and especially- No Judges. 
D.L.R.A.'s Proposals must be considered for the New Divorce Laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce al the place where Marriages are made. 
) Guidelines to be established by Mediators (Non Lawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint Custody and Mutual Financial Support of Children where possible. 
Child Endowment to Provide Financial Support of Children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary Civil Matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of Agreement should incur Legal Process and the Family Law Bill used as a last resort, with family courts for enforcement only. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 1959. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is a fact that the Government is inviting the People's Republic of China to take over the plant of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd in Sydney? If so, will the employees of Leyland become employees of the Chinese Government? Will the Government make a full statement as to why it is seeking this type of foreign investment? 
I  present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 37 and 59 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of Press reports in many newspapers this morning that the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  had offered the Leyland plant in Sydney to the People's Republic of China, will the Government now make a full statement as to why it has sought this particular type of foreign investment? 
-I do not want to detain the Senate for any great length of time but  Senator Webster  has brought up a matter here this evening concerning Australia's stand at the United Nations in relation to South Africa. I think it is hypocritical for Australia to take such a stand when there is discrimination and prejudice against the indigenous people of this country. Very little has been done about it in almost 200 years. I support  Senator Webster  in what he has said, that it is hypocritical of this Government to go over - 
You can have your say when I am finished, little man, because the only thing you know about is running a third rate hotel down on the Gold Coast. You are good at that sort of thing but you know little about the relationships of people. There is a good old proverb that says that it is always the empty vessels that make the most sound. There are quite a few empty vessels on the other side of the chamber. Just a moment ago the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and some of the bright sparks on the other side of the House were talking about Queensland. I become sick and tired of listening to them talking about what is happening in Queensland. In his own words the Minister outlined to us that the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee was the body that should make the decisions and should be advising the Minister, but the voices from the other side have the audacity to condemn the Queensland legislation. May I point out to the Senate- I think it is very relevant that I do so here this evening- that when we talk about the Queensland legislation we should remember that the Aboriginal councils in Queensland, elected by the Aboriginal people from all Aboriginal communities, looked at the Queensland legislation and told the Queensland Government the changes that they want in that piece of legislation. The Queensland Government is now going to change the things that the Aboriginal people want changed. 
It is no good  Senator Keeffe  talking because, in the first place, he is not an Aborigine. He is not affected by the Act. The people who are changing the Act in Queensland are elected by the Aboriginal people who are affected by the Act. We hear the present Government and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs talk about Aboriginal self-determination. If that is not Aboriginal self-determination, what is he talking about? The Queensland Government is not prepared to bow to the Minister, like our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  seems to want to bow to  Chairman  Mao. The Minister was making a lot of noises long before he even thought of talking to the Queensland Government or the Queensland Minister. He was making all sorts of threats. I might even add that those threats were going further back than the present Minister; they were going back to the previous Minister who was threatening Queensland that this Government was going to go into Queensland and take control of Aborigines. I can tell the Senate that no one is going to take control of Aborigines in Queensland because if they take control over Aborigines they will do so over my dead body. No one is going to control me. The Government can accept the responsibility, if it so desires for Aboriginal advancement. If this is what it wants to do, I am in its corner. But its supporters start talking about taking over control of Aborigines they have a fight on their hands because we in Queensland are not going to allow anyone to take control of Aborigines. We happen to be human beings. Even though we are black we are still human beings and no one is going to control us. But that crowd over there would like to control us. They would like to control all of Queensland but we in Queensland will not let them control us. 
-That is right. As I started out to say, I support my colleague  Senator Webster  in bringing this matter before the chamber tonight because I seriously believe that it is hypocritical of the Australian people to go over to the United Nations and talk about the situation in South Africa when we have not cleaned up our own backyard. Before we start telling anyone else how they should run their country let us get down to running our own country properly. Let us clean up the problems that we have in this country. Then, maybe, we can go over and start telling someone else what to do. 
I present the following petition from 2 citizens of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That whereas dangerously accelerating inflation is placing unbearable strain and hardship upon the people of Australia, with consequent serious escalation of industrial strikes, chaos and hostility, 
And whereas neither government economists nor the Federal Government can offer any certain early solution but continue to propose policies known to have failed in the past- including the claim for centralised control of all wages and prices which has also failed overseas, and which the Australian public rejected decisively by national referendum only recently, 
And whereas the Senate is not only an independent House of Review elected democratically by the people with its own mandate to protect their heritage and constitutional rights, but is the States ' House by which all Australians in their own sovereign States formed long before Federation can bring together ideas and plans and resources for their mutual benefit and advancement, 
So accordingly the recent, carefully-reasoned proposals of the Premier of the State of Queensland seeking the freezing of all taxation, the elimination of sales tax, and the reimplementation of consumer subsidies or discounts, warrant the most urgent and thorough investigation of the Senate. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take all essential steps without delay to: 
Demonstrate to the Australian public that everything possible is genuinely being done to halt the grave damage being inflicted by inflation upon our economy, by immediately and openly debating the aforesaid proposals of the Queensland Premier, and 
Call for the widest possible publicity and discussion of these said proposals, especially in view of the surprising scarcity of reports or details about these in most of the mass media and having regard for the fact that the Premier of Queensland did certainly table such proposals at the official Premiers' Conference lately, that the practice of consumer or price subsidies or discounts did work most effectively and harmoniously throughout Australia between 1943 and 1948, and finally, that such broad publicity is in full accord with the present Federal Government's stated claim of 'Open Government*. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present 3 petitions, identical in wording and from 7, 24 and 25 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 1. The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally alter the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 1 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the distress in the textile industry in Queensland, which is causing widespread unemployment particularly in small country towns and cities, will the Minister give an assurance that he will facilitate an application to the Industries Assistance Commission for emergency tariff protection for these industries. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Minister for Customs and Excise Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 13 November 1974 
Dear  Senator McClelland, 
During the hearing on 31 October by Estimates Committee A into the Estimates of the Department of Customs and Excise, I undertook to supply the Committee with answers to two questions raised by  Senator Jessop. 
In his first question  Senator Jessop  was apparently referring to the detention of a shipment of Austrian brandy which had been mentioned in the Adelaide press. 
I have been advised that four shipments of brandy are at present detained in circumstances similar to those quoted by  Senator Jessop.  These are as follows: 86 cartons Austrian brandy detained in Port Adelaide 15 cases ex Portugal detained since November 1973 in Sydney 250 cases ex France held in Melbourne since 12 September 1974 2 cases ex Portugal held in Fremantle. 
In each case the goods have been refused entry as brandy because the certification requirements of the Spirits Act have not been complied with. Before Collectors of Customs permit imported brandy to be entered as such they must be satisfied by the production of certificates from the responsible Government authorities of the country of manufacture that the liquor described as brandy is: 
1 ) distilled wholly from grape wine, and 
2 ) has been matured in wood for at least two years. 
In each of the four cases mentioned these certificates have yet to be produced and as a consequence the liquor will remain under Customs control until either the certificates are produced or the goods are re-exported 
In answer to  Senator Jessop's  second question I have obtained the following statistics for Australian brandy cleared for home consumption and the duty paid thereon in the years ended 3 1 August 1 973 and 3 1 August 1 974: 

<graphic href="062232197411145_34_2.jpg"></graphic>

In the Budget of 2 1 August 1 973 the excise duty on brandy was increased from $3 per litre of alcohol to $6 per litre of alcohol. This was further increased on 23 July 1974 to $8.55 per litre of alcohol. 
The figures given above show that the volume of clearances in the year 1973-74 fell 23 per cent but the revenue from brandy increased by 53 per cent. 
Yours sincerely, Lionel Murphy 

 Senator J. McClelland,  Chairman, 
Senate Estimates Committee A, 
Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 
Like my colleagues I do not oppose the Bill. As a matter of fact I personally welcome it and particularly welcome the substantial overall increase for Aboriginal advancement in Australia. I have found nothing wrong with, and am not ashamed of, using the words 'Aboriginal advancement', even though the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  seems to find something wrong with them. I personally and many of my Aboriginal fellows find nothing wrong with money being allocated for Aboriginal advancement as the advancement must be taking place in a new environment that is different from what was the Aboriginal way of life before the 1788 invasion of Australia. As I say I welcome the Bill and particularly welcome the increase in expenditure on Aboriginal advancement. Like my colleagues I too am concerned that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has seen fit to take away from my State a substantial amount of money- some $3.1 9m. 
It is being taken away from the Government of Queensland. It is a breach of faith because in the Budget that amount of money was included in the overall amount that was to be made available to Queensland. I intend quoting from the Minister's second reading speech. It gives me some idea of the pettiness of taking this money away from the Queensland Government so that it would not have this money to expend on Aboriginal advancement. The Minister said: 
Not only have the Queensland Premier and the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs refused to co-operate, they have refused even to participate in discussions on matters of mutual concern to the Queensland and Australian Governments in the Aboriginal affairs field. 
In effect the Minister is saying that he will pick up his marbles and go home. Unless other people are prepared to talk to him and to do what they are told he will take their money away from them so that he will get credit for what the Australian Government is doing for Aborigines. The Minister is not prepared to give any credit for what was done over a number of years before 1967. It was only in 1967 that the Australian Government or the Commonwealth Government, to use its correct title, came into the field of Aboriginal affairs at all in the State. To my knowledge the Commonwealth Government had the responsibility for Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I do not think anyone should boast about what happened in the Northern Territory under the Commonwealth Government or even under the now supposedly Australian Government. 
The Minister, during his wanderings through Queensland, made some very nasty comments in relation to the Government of Queensland. I wonder how many members of this chamber, including the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, really and truly understand the situation in Queensland as it has existed for a number of years. Queensland, as has been stated before, has the largest number of Aborigines of any State in the Commonwealth. There are approximately 60,000 Aborigines there. In Queensland some 27,000 to 30,000 Aborigines are known to live on government communities or mission stations and are regarded as assisted Aborigines. The State Government in Queensland, over a number of years, has accepted responsibility for these Aborigines to the extent that it provides for these communities in every field- education, health, housing, the whole box and dice of what is required. But the balance between the 27,000 to 30,000 Aborigines who live on government communities or mission stations and the 60,000 Aborigines in Queensland- that is the 30,000 Aborigines who do not live on Aboriginal communities- are not being catered for by any government- the Commonwealth Government, the State Government or the present Australian Government, as it calls itself. 
Just recently, after the referendum, the Commonwealth Government decided that it would accept some responsibility by channelling funds into each of the 6 States for Aboriginal advancement. Since that happened Queensland has received not an equal share, pro rata of population, but has received some moneys from the Government in Canberra for Aboriginal advancement. Out of this amount the Queensland Government, through the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, has provided a very substantial number of houses for Aborigines. I might add that these houses are a credit to the Government and particularly to the people who work in the Department, who have chosen wisely and have chosen the best houses that the money could provide. Some of the Aboriginal people in Queensland are certainly living in far better houses than I could provide for myself and my wife. They have wall to wall carpets, all modern conveniences and everything that the heart could desire. 
There are some in Rockhampton. If the Minister is prepared to come to Ipswich I am quite prepared to take him around and show him some of these houses. As a matter of fact if the Minister would like to come to Toowoomba anytime he likes I will show him a number of houses there. Houses of this sort have been built in Townsville, Cairns and Mount Isa. The Department built all new houses in Mount Isa. The Department has been building some 10 houses a year which cost within the vicinity of $13,000 or $15,000 each. The Department is still building them. There are many other areas to which I could refer such as Mareeba. I could go on for the next half an hour talking about the different places. 
I am surprised that  Senator Milliner  should ask such a question. Being a senator from Queensland, he must go around with his eyes shut or he has no interest in Aboriginal affairs whatsoever. He can take his pick; whichever cap fits he can wear. I think the Queensland Government has a reasonable record. I am not trying in any way to paint the Queensland Government lily white. It has made mistakes. It has not always done what I thought it should have done or what other Aborigines thought it should have done in relation to Aboriginal affairs. But at least it has tried. We are told by the Minister that he will reduce the amount of money by some $3,190,000. 
There is no point in the Minister's saying that this is not what he will do because this is what he is doing. Then the Minister tells us that he will make money available to a number of Aboriginal housing societies. Far be it from me, as an Aborigine, to reject the involvement of Aborigines in Aboriginal affairs. But by the same token, would it not be far better in this instance- if the Minister desires to support Aboriginal housing societies by all means he should do so- not to do this at the expense of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs which is able to administer this scheme at cost. The administrative cost comes out of the resources of the Queensland Government. It does not come out of the money which is allocated by the Australian Government for Aboriginal housing in Queensland. Consequently, any money which is made available to the Queensland Government for Aboriginal housing is spent by the Department on housing. 
On the other hand, if we take that $3m-odd away from the Queensland Government and give it to building socities, they in turn have to set up their own machinery. They have to pay for expertise. As  Senator Keeffe  read out, they have to get advisers, consultants, architects and the whole box and dice. These expenses will have to be paid out of this money thus reducing the amount which will be spent on actual housing. Again the only people who lose out are the Queensland Aborigines, not the Minister. He will still get his salary. He will still be able to live in his nice home. But a number of Aborigines in Queensland will miss out. It was stated by  Senator Keeffe  that the Queensland Government- let us refer more to the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland- did not spend all the money which was allocated to it last year. That is not so. The Queensland Department spent all the money which was allocated to it. As a. matter of fact, the money which is provided in this Bill has already been committed by the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. It has been committed to the extent that the Department, from now to June next year, will not be in the market for the purchase of houses for Aborigines over and above the money provided in this Bill. For someone to say that the Queensland Department did not spend the money which was allocated to it is quite wrong. 
-Thank you,  Senator Rae.  It overspent and the Minister okayed that. He has said that he will reduce the Queensland allocation this time by that amount and that Queensland will get only the normal amount which will have to be allocated out of the money which will be made available to Queensland now. So Queensland spent not only all the money last year but also it has already committed this money which it has not yet received. If that does not show to all and sundry that the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs is trying to do a good job by providing as many houses as possible for Aborigines in Queensland then I am a Dutchman. I  w3l  be the first black Dutchman in captivity. The Minister, in wandering around Queensland, made some very nasty comments about housing in Queensland. The Queensland Department would if it could give every Aboriginal in Queensland a house to live in. But it can only work within its budget. It can only use the money available to it. If honourable senators look at the Bill they will see it shows that this financial year Queensland will get from the Australian Government $10,362,000. This is a very nice gesture. But when we put that alongside the amount of some $7m provided from the Budget of the 
Queensland Government it does not look so jolly good. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to matters pertaining to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. There was some mention that the Department had not spent all the money which had been allocated to it for Aboriginal advancement. It was, I believe,  Senator Keeffe  who mentioned this and it was sort of backed up by the Minister. In his reply will the Minister give me proof that the Queensland Department has not spent the money, or will he inform the Senate how much money that Department has spent on Aboriginal advancement out of its allocation from the State Government? I am aware that the Department has used all of the money that has been allocated to it for Aboriginal advancement and, in fact, has fully committed the amount of money that will be allocated to it under the Bill we are now debating. 
Earlier I pointed out the problems faced by the Aboriginal people in Queensland. Queensland has approximately one-third of the total Australian Aboriginal population. I am very conscious of the conditions under which many of my Aboriginal fellows live in the State of Queensland particularly in the outlying areas. The conditions in some areas certainly are not what I would want or what the Aboriginal people themselves would want. But again, it is a matter of finance to provide the kind of housing that is needed in those places. If the Federal Government, the Commonwealth Government, the Australian Government- it is confusing these days- accepted the responsibilities given to it following the referendum in 1967 it would ensure that sufficient finance was made available to the different States, and particularly to my State of Queensland, so that housing can be provided for many of my people who live under pretty shocking conditions, because they do not have the finance to provide the homes themselves. I believe it is the responsibility of this Government to ensure that the indigenous people of Australia live under conditions equal to those enjoyed today by every other Australian. 
I again question the allocation of money by the Australian Government to the various States, and particularly to my own State. I have already referred to the matter of housing. Now let me mention welfare and refer to the amounts of money to be allocated to the States by the Australian Government. In New South Wales some $270,000 is being allocated for Aboriginal welfare. An amount of about $384,000 is being allocated for South Australia and in Western Australia the amount involved is $1,468,000. But when we look at the allocation for Queensland we find that it is a mere $70,000. 1 find this hard to understand. I am hoping that the Minister will clarify this when he replies and that he will give us some reason why the State of Queensland is not getting at least the same amount, as if not more than, is being allocated for Aboriginal welfare in the other States. After all, there are more Aboriginal people in the State of Queensland than there are in any other State of the Commonwealth. I sincerely hope that the Minister will give us a good reason and not the kind of reason that was mentioned by  Senator Rae  who said that it is because the Queensland Government is not prepared to do as the Australian Government wants it to do or is not prepared to be dictated to by the Australian Government. Again Queensland seems to be missing out on the kind of finance that is required for Aboriginal welfare. 
I want to comment on some of the issues that were raised by  Senator Keeffe  in relation to my State of Queensland. He said that fruit and vegetables were not grown on Aboriginal reserves, and he seemed to blame the Queensland Government for this. I point out that I lived in an Aboriginal community for 17 years, namely Palm Island. All my children were born there, and were partially raised and partially educated there. 
In relation to what  Senator Keeffe  said, from my experience I think it is ludicrous that he should say that these things were never provided in these communities because in my day on Palm Island I was the assistant settlement overseer responsible for a workforce of some 350 men and women. We had a farm on Palm Island in those days. We milked some 120 cows. Every household was provided with milk; every household was provided with free vegetables. As a matter of fact, I recall many a day when I would send from the vegetable room back to the farm to be given to the pigs dray loads of cabbages, cauliflowers, lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, the whole box and dice. But that happened under the bad old Act of Queensland, you know, that racist Act that was talked about in Queensland when there were approximately 1,500 people living on Palm Island and every able bodied man was required to do a certain amount of work to provide those things in the communities. But the Act was changed because various people said that it should be changed and they brought in what was called cash economy and then the people were not required to do this kind of work. They could do as they liked. The farm today is a wilderness. They have completely done away with the dairy farm and the dairy farm now is just a wilderness. Consequently, the people on Palm Island are suffering because of people like  Senator Keeffe  and those who cried for the Act to be changed. 

 Senator Keeffe mentioned a place called Old Mapoon. This issue is being completely blown out of proportion. I realise that there are many of the old people from Mapoon who have a desire to return there because this is the place where their people lived for perhaps thousands of years, but because of its isolation and because it is almost impossible to service, the Government in Queensland decided that in the interests of the people perhaps another settlement should be established for them. I personally as an Aboriginal, more as an Aboriginal than as a  Senator of  the Commonwealth, spoke to many of the older people of Mapoon. Yes,  Mr President,  they want to be able to return to Mapoon but only for short visits. They want to be able to take their children back to the place of their birth, to the old sites and to the sacred sites. They want to be able to show the young people how it was before. They want to be able to take the young people back to the springs. They want to take the young people back and show them what was Aboriginal culture in the old days. 
The old people realise that they can no longer live there as they used to do prior to the coming of the white man. They wish to educate their children.  Mr President,  they wish to give their children the same opportunities that you, I and everybody else wish to give our children, but the Aborigines still have this desire to go back on occasions. It is on special occasions that they wish to go back to that place, when there are stories that they must relate to the children- stories of the Dream Time and of the culture of the Aboriginal community prior to the white man that they wish to tell to the younger generations. Like you and I,  Mr President,  they are realistic and intelligent people. They know that they can no longer live there because of the advances that are being made now by the Aboriginal people. They want their children to enjoy everything that every other Australian is enjoying today. So much for the bluster and that kind of thing that goes on in relation to Aboriginal people. 
Much needs to be understood about the Aboriginal people; much needs to be understood of the thinking of the Aboriginal people. Many young Aboriginal people today are becoming educated and more sophisticated. Last week many young Aboriginal people were out in front of Parliament House demonstrating and trying to show to us here in Parliament that all is not well in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. As many of the young men said to me, they were not demonstrating against Government policy. Although I sit on this side of the chamber, I do not condemn many of the policies that have been brought forward by the present Government. I give credit to the Government for many of its policies. I think that it has instigated policies that perhaps my Party when in government should have instigated. But let that be. The people who demonstrated outside Parliament House were demonstrating against the implementation by the Department of some of the policies. 
The money that has been allocated for Aboriginal advancement is not getting down to the grass root levels where it is needed. It is not getting down to the people who are in need. It is being eaten up in administrative costs. It is being administered by people who unfortunately do not understand the Aboriginal people and who cannot understand the feelings of Aboriginal people. As I have said on so many occasions, it is about time that the Department started to employ and involve competent Aborigines. I am talking of the mums and dads who have suffered discrimination and prejudices and who have come up the hard way but who today, because of their hard work and their perseverance, are living in the community in decent homes which they have obtained by the sweat of their own brows. I am talking of those people who are holding down good jobs and who are educating their children. These are the people who can be utilised. They can be employed time and time again at the Estimates committees hearings concerning the employment of Aboriginal people in the Department. We have in the Department an Aborigine who through his own guts and determination got himself to one of the highest positions in the Public Service that an Aborigine has been able to reach. He has done this through his own guts and determination. What is he in the Department? In his own words, he is a lackey in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He says that he is treated like a lackey. 
I asked why in the consideration of the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs not one Aborigine was present. I was told by the Minister and by the 
Secretary that  Mr Perkins  was invited and he said that he had nothing to contribute. He came to Parliament House to a dinner engagement. I spoke to him outside the chamber and I challenged him on this subject. I said: 'Charles, why are you not at the Estimates Committee? Why are you, the lone Aboriginal at a high level in the Public Service, not down at the Estimates Committee?' He said: 'I was not invited. I was told by the Minister a few hours ago about the Estimates Committee meeting and I was under the impression that it was a Public Accounts Committee to which I had already given evidence.'  Mr Perkins  reiterated at the meeting, when finally under pressure from my colleague  Senator Rae  he was brought forward to say something, that he was not invited. We hear so much from the Government of its aim to involve Aborigines in the decision making process in the Department. In what greater way can we involve Aborigines in decision making than in that Department, which has the responsibility for Aboriginal administration throughout the Commonwealth? 
I wish to comment briefly on what is now called I think, the mission at the front of Parliament House. In 1972 when the Aboriginal people set up what they termed at that dme an embassy I was against what the Government did because I believe that the Aboriginal people have a right to demonstrate. Until such time as a building is provided in the capital of this nation, which used to be their nation, where Aborigines Will have a permanent lobby, they have every right to do what they are doing today in front of Parliament House. If the Government and the Parliament of this nation will not provide a permanent lobby for the Aboriginal people, the Aboriginal people have every right to sit out there on the lawns in front of Parliament House. Yes, it might embarrass the Government. Yes, it might look unsightly. Is there anything more unsightly than some of the things that I have seen around this nation- some of the conditions under which the original inhabitants of this nation are living? 
Is there anything more unsightly than to see the Aboriginal people in a place such as Camooweal? Camooweal is a little town with one hotel, one police station, one general store, a cafe and half a dozen houses. It is out in the wide open plains. There is hardly a tree in sight. When I visited there I saw Aboriginal women and their children, babes in arms, living in a series of constructions which consisted of 2 sheets of galvanised iron 6 feet long and 3 feet in height, side by side, with a sheet of iron over the top. They crawled into them in day time temperatures of 1 10 degrees. People say that what is in front of 
Parliament House is unsightly. They should go and see some of the conditions under which some of the original inhabitants of this country are living. Certainly it is unsightly but so are the conditions under which I see Aboriginal people living. 
It seems to me that the time is fast approaching when Aboriginal affairs will be taken completely out of the political arena because for far too long the Aboriginal people of this nation have been used as a political football. I believe that the time is fast approaching when we will have to set up- I do not care what you call it, a commission or whatever- a statutory body which is completely administered by Aborigines and responsible to Parliament. 
I believe in respect of this body that, as is the case in every other department and every other statutory body, expertise can be bought. Aborigines have the expertise in Aboriginal affairs. They have the understanding of Aboriginal people. They have the communication with Aboriginal people and if they need expertise in the fields of housing, agriculture and the various industries they can purchase that expertise. But at least, for God 's sake, let the Aboriginal people administer their own affairs. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Rae,  because I believe that in this BUI Queensland has been victimised and the Aboriginal people of Queensland will suffer by being deprived of this amount of money for housing. Certainly the Minister will say: 'We are taking it away with one hand and giving it back with the other'. As I pointed out earlier, that is not completely right, because $3. 1 9m, from what the Minister is saying, will not go to housing in its entirety. Much of it will be eaten up in administrative costs. We should allow that amount of money to go back to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, which, as I said earlier, has the machinery to carry out this work. If the Minister in his sincerity, and I congratulate him for it, wants to involve the Aboriginal people in housing societies then he should make the extra funds available to the housing societies, but do not deprive the Aboriginal people of Queensland, through the Queensland Government, of that $3. 19m. So I support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae  which reads: but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government's action in reducing the grant to the State of Queensland by $3,190,000 is a petty action which is contrary to the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland and that the Government should take immediate steps to grant to the State of Queensland the further sum of $3,190,000 as promised in the Budget. 
I support that amendment with everything I have. I would say finally that if the Government supported the amendment it could not be accused of double standards in this Bill in relation to Aboriginal affairs. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 12 and 15 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under section 82J of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $ 1 50 is $50 below the 1 956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether nongovernment or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to a non-government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already overcrowded and understaffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian Government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1973-1974 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
Is it a fact that the Attorney-General has ordered a special secret police investigation into the personal, social and political lives of the members of the jury which in October 1 974 found  Mr Sydney  Anderson, 2 1 years of age, of Papunya via Alice Springs, guilty of the murder of  Mr Eric  Erlensen? Anderson was duly sentenced to 15 years gaol with an 8-year non-parole period. Is the Legal Aid Service in any way connected with the request for this inquiry? If not, who is? Does the Minister consider that it is right that there should be such a breach of the privacy of citizens under the circumstances? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I ask: Has the Government extended the powers of the Industries Assistance Commission to enable that authority to recommend the restriction of textile imports to a more normal level, say, that prevailing in 1972-73? Has the Government widened the role of inquiry by the authority to include all textile imports? If so, when is the inquiry to take place and when can the Government expect a report on which it can take action? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister received a telex message from the Northern Land Council at Croker Island objecting to the bombing of Quail Island? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate when or if his colleague intends to answer this telex message as the bombing of Quail Island restarted on 23 November at the Minister's direction? 
I did not really have any intention of entering this debate until, when I was in my room packing up, I heard honourable senators opposite talking about some telegrams that had been received by some honourable senators and by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  from the  chairman  of some of the Aboriginal councils in Queensland. I received one of those telegrams myself. It came from Yarrabah. 
No, I do not have it here. It is in my office. I am quite willing to show it to anyone who wishes to see it. The main reason I entered this debate tonight was because I was disgusted to hear honourable senators oppositethe people who allegedly support the Aboriginal people- denigrate in the Senate chamber tonight a number of Aborigines in Queensland. They denigrated these Aborigines by saying that they could be coerced by the Premier of Queensland. These are intelligent men and women who were elected by their community to serve their communities. Honourable members opposite have the audacity to say that they support Aborigines and they want Aborigines to have selfdetermination. These people are determining for themselves what they want. It is no good for the Minister to try to shrug off the matter. He was up in the Torres Strait Islands just last week buying votes for the Australian Labor Party in Queensland by handing out money to the councils for the Torres Strait islanders as though it was going out of style. But it seems strange that it took him 1 8 months to get around to doing that. He was been Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for almost 18 months, but 2 weeks before an election he goes to Queensland and starts tossing money around so that he can buy some votes from the Aborigines. They are just as clever as he is. I suggest that they are a dam sight more clever because they will play the Federal Government against the State Government to get what they want. They learned this from the white man and from people like  Senator Keeffe  over there. They have learned how to play one white man against another. 
We have heard it said that these people who are sending these telegrams down here do not have the intelligence to work this matter out for themselves. Fancy honourable senators opposite saying that they do not have the intelligence. Of course they have the intelligence to send telegrams. They may have been contacted by someone in the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs to say that the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Bill was coming forward. How else could they know that this Bill was coming forward? They would not know about the Bill because it was introduced only yesterday. So someone told them that the Bill was being introduced. They used their common sense to send telegrams down to Canberra to ask members of Parliament not to allow this Bill through the Senate. 
As one honourable senator in this chamber I presented a number of petitions in relation to the Family Law Bill with which we have just dealt. The petitions that I presented to the Senate- you can very easily verify this by looking at those petitions,  Mr Deputy President-  were all identically worded. Like those telegrams to which  Senator McLaren  referred, they are all identically worded. It is all right for a white man to send to the Parliament petitions or telegrams which are identically worded, but it is not all right for an Aborigine to do so. Oh, no, he would not have enough intelligence to do that! Only  Senator Keeffe, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator McLaren  have that kind of intelligence; Aborigines do not! Like fun, they do not! They sent these telegrams because they do not want interference from the Federal Government or the Australian Government, as it calls itself. They do not want this kind of interference. They want to be left alone. They live on those communities and they have been happy there. 

 Senator Keeffe says that their letters are opened. I lived on an Aboriginal settlement, namely Palm Island, for 17 years. No one ever opened a letter that was addressed to me. How long did  Senator Keeffe  live on Palm Island? Since when did he live as an Aborigine under the Act? I lived under the Act. Untruths have been told in this chamber tonight. To say that the letters of the Aborigines living on the communities are opened and censored is not correct today. Twenty-odd years ago under the Labor Government in Queensland, yes, the letters were opened. Under the Labor Government 20 years ago when we were fed on maggoty flour- this was before the Country-Liberal Party Government got into power- yes, our letters were opened. Sure they were opened. We were sent on to mission stations in the State of Queensland by the Labor Government if we did not smile correctly when the white policeman spoke to us. We could be picked up for no reason at all and placed on a Government community. But that sort of thing was changed after the defeat of the Labor Government in Queensland by the Country Liberal Party Government. This Act which is condemned by  Senator Keeffe  was introduced by a Labor Government. 
Government senators interjecting - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-Order! 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  The truth hurts. The dog Act in Queensland was introduced by those blokes over there, not by anybody on this side of the chamber. I can tell of some of the rotten things that happened on the Aboriginal communities under the Labor Government before the Country-Liberal Party Government came into office. If an Aborigine walked up the street and brushed a fly from his face he was put in gaol because he was supposed to have waved at the girls in the dormitory. That happened under a Labor Government. But the Country-Liberal Party Government changed all that in Queensland. The dog Act of the Labor Government was gradually changed over the years by the Country-Liberal Party Government in Queensland. 
Government senators- Oh! 
-They know what the dog Act is; they should do. The Act has been changed a number of times under the present Queensland Government. Most importantly of all, it has been changed at the suggestion of the Aboriginal councillors whom the Government senators have been denigrating tonight. They made the changes in the Act. They told the Queensland Government what they wanted taken out of the Act and what they wanted left in the Act. It was not the Premier who did it. The Premier and the Queensland Government accepted the suggestions of the Aboriginal Advisory Council. 
Every time the Aboriginal Advisory Council met to review the Act the suggestions that it made were accepted by the Government. 
It is of no good  Senator Milliner  talking about it. I think until he saw me he would not have known a blackfellow if he fell over one. He does not go around the settlements. He does not know any of the people on the settlements. I have lived on the settlements. I have relatives living on settlements and they are happy to live there. I have tried to encourage them to come out. They say: 'No. We like Palm Island. We do not want to go out. You go out and live in the rat race. We do not want to go out.' They are still there, under this cruel Act that honourable senators opposite talk about. Their letters are not being opened either. They are still receiving their mail. It is doled out every day from the post office by the Aboriginal postmaster and his Aboriginal female assistant. 
-They must be. If anybody is opening them, Bernie Castors at Palm Island must be opening the letters! I would not think Bernie would do anything like that. Let us get back to the telegrams. The telegrams were sent by members of the Aboriginal Advisory Council. I recognise the names. Addimqum Adidi is the  chairman  of the Bamaga Mission Station, and I am quite sure he is quite capable of sending a telegram down here. So is  Mr Lui  from Thursday Island. A number of telegrams came from Bamaga. Surely a number of telegrams would come from Bamaga, because Bamaga is the centre for New Mapoon, New Majico, Cowel Creek and Bamaga. There are 4 settlements there altogether. They have to come through the one post office. From the islands surrounding Thursday Island, like Boigu and Mabioc, the telegrams have to go through Thursday Island. There is no other way for them to come out. The telegram would have to be lodged and it would have to go through Thursday Island. 
-They would not know anything about that. 
-They came from everywhere. I know Eric Derrell, the Aborigine who happens to be running on the National Party ticket in Queensland at the corning election. He has a good chance of winning the seat. That is in Cook. That is where most of these telegrams are coming from- from the Cook electorate. I can well imagine that the people in the area will be well supported when Eric Derrell represents them in the Queensland Parliament very shortly. 
With all the cries that come from the other side of the chamber about self-determination and all that sort of jazz, it seems strange that over the years there have been only three, or two, Aborigines so far who have been elected to any parliament in Australia- myself here for the Liberal Party, and a chap in the Northern Territory 
Legislative Assembly who was endorsed by the Liberal-Country Party - 
-By the Country-Liberal Party, I am sorry. Now Eric Derrell is going to win the seat of Cook on the National Party ticket. So after all, I do not think we have a bad record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs received a telegram from the  Chairman  of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Board, a copy of which was sent to me? With your indulgence,  Mr Acting President,  I would like to quote part of that telegram. It reads: 
We prefer co-operative effort by Commonwealth and Queensland governments in line with wishes of councillors expressed at October meeting. 
It is signed 'Les Stewart;  Chairman  of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Board.' Will the Minister consider withdrawing his Bill, namely, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Bill 1974, until after he has had the opportunity of meeting with the members of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Board to discuss the matters contained in this Bill? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to an article in today's 'Courier Mail' headlined 'The Shame of Wilcannia'? The article goes on to level some rather strong criticism at the Minister and his Department for lack of interest in the appalling conditions under which Aborigines are forced to live in that town. Will the Minister cause an immediate investigation to be made into the conditions under which Aborigines are living at Wilcannia with the aim of having something done immediately in their favour? 
I want to make clear at the outset that I will be supporting the amendment that will be moved later in the day by my colleague, the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Rae.  He will move: 
Leave out all words after 'Order ofthe Day', insert 'for the first sitting day in March 1975 to enable the Government to consult with the Aboriginal people living in reserve communities in the State of Queensland and their elected councils and other bodies and further to ascertain by poll taken within those communities the wishes of those people in relation to future restrictions upon the right of entry to those community areas '. 
I will certainly be supporting my colleague when he moves that motion. Apart from that I enter into this debate because I am in some ways disturbed and disappointed in the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  for even bringing forward this Bill in its present form. I support some clauses of the Bill because I think they are very good. I refer to clause 9 which provides that an Aborigine should be represented at any of the council courts or community courts. I think that is a very good thing and I am sure that the councillors, in consultation with the Queensland Government, in going through the legislation very shortly, as they will, will ensure that this does happen. The other clause that I support is clause 1 1, although it is not as simple as the Minister seems to think. The fact that an objective is in the Bill does not mean that it can be achieved. When I say that it may not be achieved I mean that it will not be in the best interests of the Aboriginal people living on the communities if it is achieved. Clause 1 1 reads: 
A person shall not employ an Aboriginal or Islander in Queensland (whether on a reserve or elsewhere) unless the terms and conditions of employment are not less favourable than they would be required to be if the employee were not an Aboriginal or Islander, . . . 
That is a very very good suggestion but the effect of the implementation of it on the communities does worry me because I lived on a government community for a number of years. I lived on Palm Island for nigh on 17 years and I was for a time the assistant settlement overseer with some 250 to 300 people under my charge. At that time under the Act which was in force from the late 1930s to the early 1950s we had a work force of about 300. In its Budget the Queensland Government allocated a certain amount of money for various things that would be done on the settlement. In those days it was the old handout system, as has been referred to from time to time- we had free food, free clothing, free housing, free electric, lighting and things like that. Now under the Queensland Government Budget a certain amount of money is allocated for each one of those things. Employment opportunities were created for those who wished to earn some money. When the superintendent of the day and other members of the staff got together, we worked out how much money we had and how many men we could employ. We would look at that amount of money and say: 'Is it better to pay a number of people on the community the full award according to the amount of money that we have, or should we try to employ as many as we can even though they have to be paid a little less?' It was decided it would be far better to give a lot of people some money than to give some people a lot of money. I think that was common sense then as it is even today. I am quite sure that if the Australian Government were prepared to make available sufficient money to the authorities in Queensland so that all the people employed on the communities could be paid the award wage, then the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and particularly the Director of Aboriginal Affairs would be only too happy to pay every person on the communities the full award wage and slightly better, that is, if they had sufficient money. But here again, I believe that in some respects the Australian Government does not live up to its responsibilities. 

 Senator Keeffe spoke about the amount of money spent on Palm Island, and he said that all of the money spent on Palm Island comes from the Federal Government. I want to give the lie to that because all of the money that is spent on Palm Island, or in any other community, does not come from the Australian Government. For the current financial year the Queensland Government has set aside in its Budget some $7m for Aboriginal welfare in the State of Queensland, which amount is matched by some $I0m from the Australian Government. It seems strange that the Australian Government, through the Minister, saw fit to take some $3m-odd from Queensland in relation to Aboriginal people on Aboriginal communities. 
My feeling in relation to this Bill is that I would go even further than what is proposed in the amendment to be moved by my colleague,  Senator Rae.  I would strongly suggest that this Bill should be deferred until the Aboriginal people in Queensland are consulted. I suggest that they should have a type of mini-referendum within the Aboriginal communities for the Aboriginal people who are affected by this legislation, not the people who do not live on the Government communities, not the people who are not affected by this Bill. I believe in some respects that both the Queensland Government and the Australian Government are adopting subconsciously a racist attitude on this whole issue because the Queensland Government is saying, The Australian Government is not going to take over Aboriginal affairs' and the Australian Government is saying, 'We are going to take over Aboriginal affairs', but the people who are affected are not being consulted. It is of no use for the Minister to tell me that he met with some of the councillors and they told him that they want the Australian Government to take over. I will not buy that one. What I want to see is that the Federal Government, or the Australian Government as it calls itself, and the Queensland Government have the opportunity of sending onto the communities people to explain in simple language exactly what it is going to mean to the people if the State government authorities retain the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. They should explain in simple language what benefits would flow to the Aboriginal people. The Government will then be allowing the Aboriginal people to make their own choice. I should like to quote from a Press statement which was released by the elected leaders of the Queensland Aboriginal reserve residents. The statement was released in Brisbane on 24 October 1974. It states: 
The  Chairman  of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council,  Mr Les  Stewart, said that the Council had mct  Senator Cavanagh  at his request earlier in the year and had told him that in consultation with their people they were in the process of formulating any necessary changes in the law. The Premier has told the Advisory Council on several occasions that he would abolish or amend the Act in accordance with their wishes. 
I emphasise the words 'in accordance with their wishes'. That relates to the Aboriginal people in Queensland. The statement continues: 
Some amendments had already been made and more were decided upon over the past 2 days. 
However, being fully aware of this,  Senator Cavanagh  has insulted the Queensland Aboriginal representatives by threatening to introduce his own laws to override State legislation. 

 Mr Stewart said that the empty promises made by  Senator Cavanagh  and his Departmental Officers had only strengthened the Queensland Aboriginal people's resolve to remain within State jurisdiction. 
Legislative changes recommended by the Advisory Council today include amendments to the management of property clauses so that any doubt regarding a person's complete freedom of choice to manage his property would be removed; a relaxation in the regulations controlling the entry and sale of liquor on reserves and the removal of the community councils from all functions dealing with an Aboriginal Court. After careful consideration Council had decided that the permit system which gave them power to control entry to a reserve should remain for the  time  being. 
I think that clearly demonstrates the wishes of the people of Queensland. I shall follow on by proving that the Queensland Government did listen to what the Aboriginal councillors recommended. I have a copy here of a Bill which is entitled 'A Bill to amend the Aborigines Act 1971 and the Torres Strait Islanders Act 1971, each in certain particulars'. The Queensland Government has kept faith with the Aboriginal councils. The Bill repeals a section of the Act. The old section concerning termination of management of property has been completely deleted from the Act. There are quite a few other changes. If the Minister would like to have a look at them I will be quite happy to show them to him. He might then be able to understand why I argue against what he is attempting to do at the moment, which is against the wishes of the Aboriginal people. 
My colleague,  Senator Lawrie,  during his speech read a telegram that was addressed to  Mr Les  Stewart from the Minister. The telegram reads: 
Les Stewart Chairman 
Cherbourg Aboriginal Reserve Council 
Les, as prisoner on a reserve, you have no right to stop any Aboriginal from reuniting with their relatives. Support my Government in this and subsequent legislation and upon return of Cherbourg settlement to Aboriginals, with the right  of ownership,  you will have the right to decide-- 
I emphasise the words 'you will have the right to decide '-  who enters your private property. Cease being an agent  of  Petersen and fight Ibr the rights and freedom of your people. 
As my colleague,  Senator Rae,  said: 'How paternalistic can you be?' The telegram was addressed to Les Stewart, a highly respected gentleman of the Aboriginal community of Cherbourg, a man who has done remarkably well for himself and his family. He is not only respected at Cherbourg. He is respected wherever he goes. He is respected in Murgon and Wondai. He is a man of high principles and integrity. Yet the Minister says to him: 
Les, as prisoner ona reserve - 
Let me took at that a little more closely. Les Stewart spent his early formative years on Palm Island. I happened to be there at that time. He was a young fellow who wanted to better himself. He did not think he could do the things he wanted to do on Palm Island. So he decided to transfer himself to Cherbourg. He moved to Cherbourg of his own accord because he wanted to further himself in a particular field. He went to Cherbourg and he completed his education at the Cherbourg school. He trained to become a first class fully qualified cabinet maker. He further studied and became a fully qualified carpenter. He has lived on Cherbourg since the early 1940s. That is when he moved there from Palm Island. He is not a prisoner on Cherbourg because Les could leave Cherbourg at any time he wants. No Aborigine in a community in Queensland is a prisoner. They are not prisoners in the communities. They can leave the communities whenever they so choose. Depending on the way they go about things they can go back if they want. 
As the Minister has not lived in Queensland and has not lived in a community he should at least listen to somebody who has. 
Having spoken about  Mr Stewart  and the Minister's paternalism towards him and his inaccuracies in saying that Les is a prisoner, let me go further and refer to the part of the telegram which states: 
. and upon return of Cherbourg settlement to Aboriginals-- 
I detest the word myself because we are Aborigines. The telegram continues: 
. you will have the right to decide who enters your private property. 
What is all this about? According to the Minister whilst the Aborigines are living in the community now, as councillors of the community, they should not have the right to stop people from going in. The Minister, in his Bill, wants to take that right away from the Aborigines. Having taken the right away from them, later he will give it back to them. How hypocritical can he be? What is his argument? The Minister does not feel they should have the right now to say who should go on to the reserves. Later on the Minister will say: 'Later on when we, Big Brother in Canberra, take over Aboriginal affairs in Queensland, we will give you the right to say who goes on a community'. That is what the Minister is saying. He said it in his telegram. He is arguing against himself. In one breath the Minister brings in a Bill to say that the Aboriginal councillors should not have this right and then he sends a telegram to say that when he takes over in Queensland the Aborigines will have the right to say who enters their reserves. Why can they not have that right now? 
It does not make sense to me. Of course I am only j just a poor old Aborigine from Queensland; I would not know. I come from what is called the deep north. It seems strange that the only Aborigine in Parliament comes from the deep north. I cannot support the Minister in that part of the Bill. In any case I cannot support the Bill at all. Really I do not support any of the Bill. I go further than my colleague because I believe that it is time that the Aboriginal people were consulted. I am quite sure there is no real hardship in holding a mini-referendum- I do not know whether that is the correct word- or whatever one might like to call it. 
It seems strange that just recently in Queensland- in Brisbane and in Ipswich- when a licence was to be issued for the establishment of a tavern, a hotel or something or other, all the people in the community were given the opportunity of voting to say whether they wanted that tavern opened in their community or not. This can be done for people in Ipswich and for people in Brisbane but it cannot be done for the Aboriginal people in the communities. The Government believes that they should not have any say. The Government is going to tell them, as usual, what is good for them in the State of Queensland whether they like it or whether they do not like it. What I am saying is that until such time as the Australian Government and the State Governments are prepared to hold a poll on the communities and allow the Aboriginal people to tell the Parliaments- both State and Federalwhether they want the laws changed in Queensland, whether they want the Act abolished, and whether they want the Queensland Government to give up its responsibility for Aboriginal affairs and hand it over to the Federal Government, I do not believe I can support what the Minister is proposing at this time. 
I have nothing to fear politically, as was suggested earlier by  Senator Keeffe  who indicated that we had something politically to worry about on this issue. I have no worries politically. I stand here as an Aborigine and I am standing up to be counted for those who have spoken to me. Those who have faith in the Aboriginal community in Queensland have faith in me. It is no good  Senator Keeffe  or any other honourable senator saying that I am in any way influenced by the Queensland Government because there is very little communication between me and the Queensland Government. I have no intention of standing in this place and painting the Queensland Government lily white because it has made mistakes in the past and I am sure it will make more mistakes. At least it has accepted its responsibilties. I am indebted to one of my State colleagues, the honourable member for Chatsworth,  Mr Bill  Hewitt, because if it had not been for him I would not even have had a copy of the new Bill that was introduced into State Parliament. 
I am here speaking on behalf of the Aboriginal people in the communities whom I know very well. I am in constant contact with them. As a matter of fact, as I said recently, I have relatives on many of the communities. I think  Senator Keeffe  found that out to his sorrow when he visited Weipa because I think it cost him quite a few bob to shout a lot of my relatives when he went down to the Aboriginal canteen. I am speaking on behalf of the Aboriginal people. I will certainly, on this occasion, support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Rae.  I do not believe the Government has gone far enough. I would like to see the whole Bill thrown out until after the Minister has had the decency to consult the Aboriginal people on the Aboriginal communities in Queensland. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I do not have an amendment before me. 
I agree with the remarks of my colleague  Senator Rae.  I will be joining him in opposing the inclusion of clauses 6 and 7 in the Bill. In my speech last week I threw down a challenge to both the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Queensland Government to give the Aboriginal people who are members of the communities on reserves in Queensland the opportunity to vote on whether they wanted these clauses included in the Bill. The Minister did not accept that challenge. Despite what he has said today, I still maintain that the Aboriginal people of Queensland, mainly those who live in Aboriginal communities and who are affected by the Queensland Act, should be given the opportunity to vote on whether they want these clauses retained in this Bill. 
I believe that the Aboriginal councillors should have the right to say who should enter their communities, who should live in the communities and so forth. The Minister referred to an incident that occurred on Friday of last week. I was in Townsville at about the time. I knew one of the young men who were removed from Palm Island. I spent a considerable amount of time in conversation with him. He maintains that the councillors should have the right to do what they did. Although he does not agree with the reason given by them as to why he should leave the community, he maintains that the councillors should have such a right. For the Minister to say that these men were removed because they would have worked for the Australian Labor Party in Queensland is not quite correct. This young man certainly would not have been working for the Labor Party; to the contrary, he would have been working for the Liberal Party of Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the sitting was suspended I was speaking about a young man who was removed from the Palm Island Aboriginal settlement at the instigation of the Palm Island Council. Though he was removed he still maintained that the Aboriginal council should have this right. Though he did not completely agree with the reasons of the councillors for his removal he still maintained that they should have the right to say who should live there, who should visit and should go onto the settlement. I completely agree with him. 
It is true that there are occasions on which the councillors will make mistakes. But surely to goodness this is part of the growing up process of councillors. The council has been established for only a short number of years and the councillors will make mistakes. But I believe it is their right to have the power to decide who should be allowed to visit or live on the settlement. Surely they will learn by their mistakes. There will be occasions on which they will be guided by other people, perhaps even people from the administration. 
I recall an occasion recently when an Aboriginal by the name of Rossiter, who one might refer to as an importation from the southern States, went to Palm Island. This chap, who had extreme ideas, put himself on Palm Island as an adviser to the previous Council that was dissolved by the Queensland Government. I did not always agree with the advice that he was giving, nor did many of the residents of Palm Island. But he was permitted to give that Council advice, some of which was bad advice and wrong advice. I do not remember anyone kicking up any great fuss about that. It seems that it is wrong for the Council to accept advice from white people who happen to be part of the administration. I do not see is that way. 
I would like to point out how out of touch the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is with the Queensland legislation. Clause 5 ( 1 ) of the Bill we are now considering states: 
Subject to sub-section (2), any property in Queensland of an Aboriginal or Islander shall not be managed by another person without the consent of the Aboriginal or Islander . . . 
Section 38 of the Aborigines Act 1971 of Queensland, which has been looked at very closely by Aboriginal councils in Queensland, states: 
Powers and duties incidental to management of property. ( I ) Subject to sub-section (2) of this section, a district officer who is maintaining the management of the property of any person, having regard to the best interests of that person and of any member of his family who should be supported by him, may -  with that person's consent do certain things. So what is being proposed in the Bill we are now considering has already been taken care of by the Queensland Government on the advice of the Aboriginal councillors. So the facts show that the Aboriginal councillors on Palm Island are not as unintelligent or as stupid or whatever the Minister likes to refer to them as in telegrams. They have the capacity to think for themselves, to act for themselves and to advise the Government what they want to change and what they wish to retain in the Act. I think they are acting within their rights. I cannot support the Minister and I will be supporting my colleague,  Senator Rae,  in proposing the deletion of clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill. Again I believe it is right that the councillors, not anyone else, should decide whether they should or should not retain the power over who shall visit their communities and who shall live in them. 
I rise again because of some of the things that were said by the supposed Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh). 
I say 'the supposed Minister for Aboriginal Affairs' because I am an Aborigine and he has the audacity to say things about me in this chamber. He is the man who is supposed to be standing up for Aborigines. I have never been ashamed of anything I have said in this chamber. I make no apology for anything I have said. I make no apology for standing up for the Aboriginal people in the communities and for the councillors who have been duly elected by the Aboriginal people in the communities. I make no apology for saying that they should have the authority in the communities and that they should have the control, and not  Senator Cavanagh.  Honourable senators opposite have the audacity to say: 'We want Aborigines to have self-determination.' What a mob of hypocrites. The Minister himself adopts a hypocritical attitude in this chamber. I am an Aborigine. I am proud of the fact that I am an Aborigine. I will do everything in my power to assist the advancement of my race. 
I am doing just that because I am maintaining that they, and not  Senator Cavanagh,  have the right to make the decisions. 
Certainly they are living in hovels. They are living in hovels in Wilcannia too. I asked the Minister some 6 months ago when he visited Queensland and when my wife and I were given a lift to Brisbane in his car, whether he would have a look at Wilcannia and at the conditions under which Aborigines are living there. 
In New South Wales, not in Queensland. My wife said to him:  'Mr Minister,  please remember the name Wilcannia, because my husband and I visited there and were appalled by what we saw. Would you as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs please remember the name Wilcannia?' The Minister was not interested in that. He is not interested in the high death rate of Aboriginal children who live in hovels in the Northern Territory. It is true that we have problems in Queensland, but by the same token the Queensland Government has accepted its responsibilities. It was the lack of money that stopped the building of houses and the taking of Aboriginal people out of the hovels in Queensland. This responsibility lies with  Senator Cavanagh.  He and his Government can make this money available but they have cut off some $3m from the Queensland Government.  Senator Gietzelt,  who is interjecting, would not know anything about the matter. He has never been to Queensland to look at the situation. I am standing here and speaking of how I feel as an Aboriginal. The honourable senator would not know anything about the feelings of Aborigines. He has never lived as an Aboriginal. Has he lived in the lantana bushes? Has he had a hungry belly and walked barefoot? As an Aboriginal I have lived in hovels, but I was able to lift myself out of those hovels not through the help of the honourable senator's Party nor with the help of the Queensland Labor Party when it was in office. 
The Labor Government kept us tied down on the government communities. It was a National Party-Liberal Government that lifted us out of that. It is hypocrisy on the part of the Minister and  Senator Keeffe  to say that the Aboriginal councils, which were duly elected by the people, should not have the right to say who enters their communities. 
It is no good the honourable senator saying otherwise. The councils were elected by the people.  Senator Keeffe  has often come into this chamber with a lot of accusations but he has never yet once, to my knowledge, been able to produce the proof of the accusations that he makes. He says he has proof. I ask him to lay the proof on the table of the Senate so that we can see it. Then we will take notice of what he has to say. 
-You can table it here. I was in Townsville too on Friday. I looked into the situation as well. Certainly five men were removed from Palm Island. One of them happened to be my own son. He was put off the Island. 
Yes. My son said: 'The councillors have the right to put me off if I am not prepared to conform to the rules of the Council on the Island. I do not agree with the reasons on this particular occasion but I agree with the Council 's right to do so '. 
He said that to me on Friday night and again on Saturday morning. The Minister said that the men were removed because they might influence the vote. They had every right to vote in Townville. My son voted in Townsville but he did not vote for the Labor Party. That is one of the reasons the Labor Party did not win in Queensland. Labor's representation in the State Parliament dropped from 33 seats to 12 seats- not a bad effort for a government that allegedly has not done the right thing in Queensland. It seems strange that today the people of Queensland have almost annihilated the Labor Party there. It has only 12 members in Parliament. It cannot even form a shadow Ministry. The Queensland Government, which senators opposite say has done so many wrong things, certainly has the support of the Queensland people. I stand to be counted. I want to see clauses 6 and 7 deleted from this Bill to allow the responsibility of the communities to lie in the hands of the duly elected Aboriginal councils. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government extended the powers of the Textiles Authority, within the Industries Assistance Commission, to enable that Authority to recommend the restriction of textile imports to a more normal level, such as that which prevailed during 1972-73. 
Has the Government widened the scope of inquiry of the Textiles Authority to include all textile imports; if so, when is the inquiry to take place, and when does the Government expect to receive a report on which it can take action. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that pilots in Queensland have been advised that should they require aeronautical lighting for night flying operations into Queensland government aerodromes, other than in Brisbane and Townsville, they must give notification of that requirement to the Flight Service Unit or to Air Traffic Control before 4 p.m. and that if this is not done lighting will not be provided? Further, is the Minister aware that in the outback of Queensland, pilots on charter flights of Bush Pilots Airways and the Flying Doctor Service would not always be aware of their proposed duty requirements and flight plans in order to comply with these regulations? Will the Minister have this matter investigated with the aim of providing a better and safer service in relation to the lighting provided at airports in the outback areas of Queensland? 
-I wish to indicate that, like my colleague  Senator Rae,  I support this measure, which is the Aboriginal Land Fund Bill, but I just wonder whether perhaps the Government in its haste and whathaveyou has introduced it to forestall a motion that I put down in this chamber some months ago in relation to Aboriginal claims throughout Australia as a whole. Although we are supporting this measure at this time because it will give to some sections of the Aboriginal community some land, I think the Bill falls far short of the measure which I introduced here some months ago and which I hope will finally come up for debate and determination in the near future. I am very happy to see that an opportunity will be given to groups of Aborigines under this Bill to purchase land and be able to do something with it. I am very concerned that when Aborigines endeavour through this Bill to purchase land caution shall be taken to ensure that it will be used for the betterment of the Aboriginal people and that it will be ascertained whether the land purchased under the provisions of this Bill will be of some use to the Aboriginal people in an economic sense. 
Having looked at the Bill there are some parts of it with which I am not happy and to which I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  that is, of course, if the Minister is prepared to listen to what I have to say instead of being distracted by other people within the chamber. I wish to draw to the Minister's attention Part III- Constitution and Meetings of the Commission. Clause 8 reads: 
The Commission shall consist of S members, namely- 
a Chairman; and 
4 other members, of whom at least 2 shall be Aboriginals. 
I prefer the term 'Aborigines'. That clause strikes me as rather strange because here we have the Government setting up a commission to deal with an Aboriginal land fund and yet the Government makes provision for only 2 Aborigines. Why should there not be 5 Aborigines? Why should this Commission be administered by nonAboriginal people rather than by Aborigines? Surely Aborigines can handle such a Commission. If they need to draw upon white expertise, provision of that could be made in the Bill. Surely expertise can be bought. Experts are a dime a dozen in any other field. I think that particular expertise is needed in the field of Aboriginal affairs and I believe that Aborigines would certainly be better than non-Aboriginal people as members of this Commission, providing of course that, if necessary, the Aboriginal commissioners could buy or hire white expertise in this field. 
Clause 1 2 of the Bill says: 
The Governor-General may terminate the appointment of a member by reason of misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
That is fair enough. Sub-clause 2 says: 
If a member- 
is absent, except on leave of absence granted by the Minister, from 3 consecutive meetings of the Commission; 
Why should it be granted by the Minister and not by the members of the Commission? At different times I have sat on boards. If a person absents himself from a number of consecutive meetings then the members of that board have the right to say: 'You can no longer be a member of the board'. Why must this power be vested in the Minister rather than in the Commission, which I hope would be made up of Aborigines? 
Clause 13, sub-clause (2), says: 
The Minister may appoint a person to act as a member, other than the  Chairman  - 
Again I ask why it should be the Minister. Why should the members of the Commission not appoint someone from their numbers to act as their  chairman,  as happens on many bodies? I am the  President  of the One People of Australia League. If I were not at a board meeting the members of the board would have the right to appoint one of their members to act as  chairman  at that time. Why is all the power being vested in the Minister? These are some of the points I wish to raise. I hope that in his reply the Minister will clarify these matters for me. 
I feel quite confident in my own mind that Aborigines would see these things again as a direction from the white experts, the white administrators, or the pseudo experts as many Aborigines term white people who are involving them-  selves in Aboriginal affairs today. It seems rather strange to me that we spent some time here last week talking about Queensland, the Queensland Government and the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs having too much say in Aboriginal matters, yet we find the Minister who levelled that criticism at Queensland is in the Federal sphere, putting himself in the position where he shall direct the Aborigines. We heard much from the present Australian Government and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs criticising the Queensland Government for interfering too much in Aboriginal affairs. Yet this Bill, which is brought forward by the very same Minister, gives the Minister so much power in Aboriginal affairs. As I said, the Commission will be comprised of non-Aboriginal people but the Government has conceded that perhaps it will have at least 2 Aborigines. Why not 5 Aboriginal commissioners dealing in this matter that is so important to Aboriginal people? 
-Yes, that is right. The Commission will be made up of 5 persons. The Bill says that at least two may be Aborigines. It does not say that two shall, two must or two will; it says that at least two may be Aborigines. There is much to be learnt by the non-Aboriginal community in matters pertaining to Aboriginal relationships and attachment to land. To Aboriginal people land is not just a piece of dirt that can be used for commercial purposes; it is something that is part and parcel of Aborigines. We are part of the land. We are part and parcel of the streams, the mountains, the trees, the flora and the fauna. When we talk about land we do not talk about fencing or of having 10 acres of land and growing and selling grain. We talk about land as being part of us. It is the bedrock of our philosophy. We are part of that land, so it is very important to us. If anyone takes away the land from us or takes us away from the land he destroys us. Though I am happy in some regards with what the Government is doing in making finance available so that Aborigines can purchase back some of their own land, by the same token I am not completely happy with some of the clauses in the Bill. The Opposition supports this measure, small though it may be. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Minister receive a telex message from the Northern Land Council at Crocker Island, objecting to the bombing of Quail Island; if so, will the Minister inform the Senate if, and when, he intends to answer to the telex message, as the bombing of Quail Island re-started on 23 November 1974 at the Minister's direction. 
Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate when the Aboriginal Loans Commission will be operative? When will application forms be available? Will applicants be subject to a means test? Will applicants wishing to borrow money to purchase a home be required to have a deposit; if so, how much? How many Aborigines are on the Commission and how were they appointed? Who are they and from what State do they come? 
It is not often that I find myself on the same platform as my friend Jim Keeffe, but tonight I find that I must agree with him in his call for a royal commission into some of the allegations that have been made from time to time of police brutality and the discrimination that has been shown towards Aborigines in various parts of Australia. Unfortunately I cannot agree with him that it happens only in Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia. From my experience it is rather widespread. Perhaps I should confine my remarks at this stage to my experiences in my own State of Queensland.  Senator Keeffe  referred to an incident with which I was concerned in Cloncurry in Queensland and in regard to which I made some very widespread investigations. Unfortunately it is almost impossible to pinpoint or to substantiate the claims that are made by Aboriginal people. So often when a lone Aboriginal is walking down the street late at night- perhaps he has had a couple of beers or maybe on occasions has had one too many- he is accosted or allegedly arrested by 2 members of the police force. He is a lone Aboriginal. He is abused, mistreated and taken to the lockup. On being taken to the law court in the morning and appearing before a magistrate, it is his word against that of 2 members of the law enforcement organisation. What hope has a lone Aboriginal, who in the first place is black and in the second place is intoxicated, brought before a law court in the morning against 2 supposedly respectable enforcers of the law? He has not a hope in the world. I have seen the results of alleged police brutality on so many occasions that sometimes it makes my stomach turn. So I agree with  Senator Keeffe  that there is a great need within the community for a royal commission into some of the allegations that are made against members of our law enforcement agencies. 
I do not say that all members of the law enforcement agencies are this way inclined. There are very fine and respectable gentleman within the law enforcement agencies. I have a great admiration for those men who do their duty conscientiously and to the best of their ability. I have no quarrel whatsoever with them. But there are always the ones who sometimes allow their power to go to their heads and when they are dealing with some unfortunate Aboriginal or group of Aborigines they do tend to use brutality that they would not use in other circumstances. I would be the last to deny that there are some naughty Aborigines, but there are nonAborigines who can be just as naughty. I believe that a royal commission of some kind would bring to light not only the atrocities which are being perpetrated against Aborigines and of which  Senator Keeffe  has spoken but also the fact that there are occasions when members of law enforcement agencies need to chastise and bring to justice Aborigines who are not doing the right thing. So a royal commission certainly would be in the best interests of all Australians. 
I know that this kind of thing happens to other members of the community as well as Aborigines. I know of many occasions when nonAboriginal people also have run foul of those people within the law enforcement agencies who have no scruples and no sense of decency whatsoever. So, while this matter is being looked at in regard to the Aboriginal people, perhaps it could be looked at also in regard to other underprivileged people within our community.  Senator Keeffe  has raised the matter tonight in relation to the Aboriginal people. I support what he is asking for- a royal commission. I am not quite sure how this c-.i be brought about. But surely those in authority, such as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Attorney-General, can look at this matter and do something about it. It is high time that something was done about it because certainly far too much of this type of thing is going on. 
I do not pick on Queensland in particular because I know that this is happening in other States. But since I represent Queensland, since most of my time is devoted to Queensland and since I spend a lot of my time travelling around that State, I find that a lot of this is happening in that State. I am conscious of it happening in other States. For instance, it happens at Redfern and other places in Sydney. I have heard of police brutality and victimisation of Aborigines in that area.  Senator Keeffe  has raised a case of it happening in Western Australia. I have had it brought to my attention that such things have happened in Victoria and in South Australia. So surely a royal commission in this area would serve the purpose of making us all satisfied that justice not only will seem to be carried out but also will be carried out because those who are responsible for the enforcement of the law will know that if they are not administering justice as they should there is a likelihood of someone bringing them to book. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, it is strange that this evening I find myself on the same platform as  Senator Keeffe. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Overseas Trade offer the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd's plant in Sydney to the People's Republic of China; if so, will the Minister make a full statement as to why the Government sought this particular type of investment. 
I am sorry that  1  have to take up a little of the Senate 's time this evening. I do so because something has been brought to my attention which causes me some concern as it will have farreaching implications in the Aboriginal community. On  14  November  1974  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  inroduced a Bill into the Senate entitled Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill  1974.  We on this side of the Senate assisted to give this Bill a very speedy passage through  the  Senate. We had discussed this matter in our party room and we believed that it was a matter that was very important to the Aboriginal community. It was a Bill that would be giving Aborigines the opportunity which they would not otherwise have to borrow money to purchase homes, furniture and many other things. Naturally, we on this side of the Senate were very anxious to give that Bill a speedy passage through the chamber. As a matter of fact, there was only one  speaker  on the Bill from this side. That was the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Rae,  who spoke for only  7  minutes. That shows how anxious we were to have that Bill passed through the Senate. 
Last week I received the document that I hold in my hand. I am quite prepared to table it after I have finished speaking. It is entitled: 'Newsletter No.  1,  February  1975-  Aboriginal Loans Commission'. There are a number of points that are raised by the Commission. The first one is: 'Are you or your partner Aboriginal or partAboriginal?' In the first place, the last part of that question referring to Aborigines as partAborigines is an insult to the entire race of Aboriginal people. No other race is categorised in this chamber as part-this, part-that or partsomething else. We do that with animals. We talk about part-Shetland ponies, part-Hereford bullocks or something like that. But we do not use that term in relation to human beings. It seems strange to me that no one has any problem in identifying an Aborigine if he happens to be on a road paralytic drunk or doing something that is wrong. He is not regarded as a part Aborigine; he is regarded as an Aborigine. When there are some benefits to be derived by Aboriginal people, we start categorising; we start saying: Oh, he is not an Aborigine. He is only a part Aborigine'. But, if that person happens to be drunk, he is an Aborigine. I strongly object to the words of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, not the Department of Part Aboriginal Affairs.  Senator Cavanagh  is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, not the Minister for Part Aboriginal Affairs. So much for the first question. The next question reads: 
Do you have a genuine desire to own your own home? 
Good God! That question comes from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Aboriginal Loans Commission and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I repeat it: 
Do you have a genuine desire to own your own home? 
What Australian, whether he be an Aborigine or otherwise, does not have a genuine desire to own his own home? The next question is: 
Is your income less than $ 1 54 a week? 
Last Tuesday, I asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether a means test was to be applied to this scheme. He assured me that there would be no means test. But here, in the words of this document which comes from the Aboriginal Loans Commission in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the question is asked: 
Is your income less than $ 1 54 a week? 
If that is not putting a means test on Aborigines to determine whether they are entitled to borrow from this Loans Commission, as I have said once before I must be a Dutchman. I come to the next question. It is: 
Do you have a credit rating? 
No means test was to be applied. But the question that is asked is: 
Do you have a credit rating? 
The question that follows is: 
Do you have any assets which could be used as equity? 

 Mr President, I ask you. If an Aborigine can answer those last 2 questions in the affirmative, he does not need the services of a Loans Commission; he can go to a bank, a building society or a lending agency. He can go anywhere! What is the point- what is the hypocrisy- in setting up an Aboriginal Loans Commission from which Aborigines can borrow money which, in the words of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, they otherwise would not have the opportunity to do? If an Aborigine can answer those 2 questions 'Do you have a credit rating?' and 'Do you have any assets which could be used as equity?' in the affirmative, he does not need the assistance of the Loans Commission. The next statement is the real clanger. This document continues: 
If you can answer 'yes' to these questions you may- 
I emphasise the word 'may '-  be able to get a loan from the Aboriginal Loans Commission. 
The word used is not 'can' or 'will'; it is 'may', and only 'may'. I am concerned at what this newsletter states because I know that these questions will turn away 95 per cent of the Aboriginal people who could benefit from the operation of the Aboriginal Loans Commission if it is put into operation as the Minister assured us in his second reading speech it would be. Let me quote some of his words when introducing the relevant legislation. The Minister said: 
Few Aboriginal householders are able to obtain loans for the purchase of items such as household furniture and refrigerators because they cannot establish to the satisfaction of the usual lending institutions that they are an acceptable credit risk. 
Unless an Aborigine can answer these questions to the satisfaction of the Commission, again he or she is not an acceptable credit risk. As I said, I am concerned because many Aborigines- I would say as many as 95 per cent of those who are genuinely in need- will be turned away. Once they see those questions, they will not even go any further. They will read those questions, as many of them have, and they will be turned away because affirmative answers to the questions asked would automatically make them ineligible for a loan. In this day and age $ 1 54 a week can be earned by an Aborigine. That might sound rather funny to honourable senators opposite but we are talking about human beings and we are talking about Aboriginal people who are suffering. These laughing hyenas opposite are supposed to be the champions of the Aborigines. Yet when I am talking about a serious matter that could affect the lives of thousands of Aborigines all they can do is laugh. I would like to hear an explanation by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, not the Minister for PartAboriginal Affairs, in relation to the matters that I have raised. 
-in reply- I wish to speak to the motion which I moved on 19 September 1974. 1 am a little disappointed today to see so few of my colleagues from both sides of the chamber present when this motion is being finally presented and determined. If I interpret correctly what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said, in my opinion what will follow will make this an historic day for Aborigines in Australia. If I understand the Minister- I hope I do- he and his Government are accepting my motion in its entirety. The Minister, during his speech seemed to waffle away from the actual motion. All the matters that the Minister raised are, as I said in my speech on 19 December 1974, but charity of the government of the day. My motion states: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
If the Minister accepts that motion all is well. The matters that the Minister has raised in relation to the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission headed by  Mr Justice  Woodward and the implementation of some things by the present Government are, as I said in my speech on 19 September 1974, but charity of the government of the day. My motion is asking for the true entitlement for a dispossessed people so they would then be entitled to anything that the Government would be doing. During my speech of 1 9 September 1 974 1 said:   . . the day is fast approaching when this compensation for dispossession of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders must- I say 'must'- be channelled to an all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander statutory body empowered to administer such a compensation for dispossession fund, for the survival of fellow Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. The statutory body must be empowered to call upon such nonAboriginal expertise as is considered necessary by the body. 
I am pleased that the final determination of my motion is about to be made. I hope that my interpretation of what the Minister said is correct. I hope that when the motion is passed there will be rejoicing in the Aboriginal community. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Are Aborigines of mixed marriages, whether legal or de facto, entitled to assistance from the Aboriginal Loans Commission? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, by stating that I speak as a descendant of the indigenous people of this nation who were and still are to a large degree regarded as ignorant savages. In view of the shocking episode that erupted in the House of Representatives last Thursday, 27 February 1975 and the ensuing act of the Leader of the Opposition being prevented by the brute force of numbers from bringing to the attention of the Privileges Committee the almost savage behaviour of some members of Parliament concerned, I ask: How far are members of Parliament protected under privilege should violence follow under like circumstances to the extent that a member could be seriously injured? 
Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate whether an Aborigine qualifying under the terms of the Aboriginal Loans Commission and who has an existing loan from a bank, lending agency or building society for a business enterprise or to purchase a home, will be able to have this loan taken over by the Aboriginal Loans Commission because of the crippling high interest rates presently charged by said agencies? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. Will the Minister name the Aboriginal organisations involved? 
My question, addressed to the Postmaster-General, is in a number of parts. Who decided that the Aboriginal person known as Truganini, deceased, should be included in the women's stamp series? Was the Prime Minister's adviser on women's affairs,  Ms Elizabeth  Reid, instrumental in drawing up the list of persons, including Truganini, without any reference to the Post Office Stamp Advisory Committee? Was the Aboriginal community consulted in any way through any of its acknowledged spokesmen or spokeswomen about the Aboriginal community's probable attitude towards a Truganini stamp? If not, why not? Was the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs consulted? If not, why not? Has the Post Office or the Postmaster-General received any protest about the proposed stamp? If so, when and from what source? Finally, does the Post Office propose to withdraw the Truganini stamp from the women's series? 
I am conscious of the transport situation and I know that many of my colleagues are anxious to leave the chamber to make their way to their respective dwellings. However, I desire to raise this evening a matter which I believe needs to be aired in this Parliament. After a great deal of investigation on my part I believe that what I raise tonight is a gross miscarriage of justice. I refer to a matter concerning a young Aboriginal gentleman by the name of William Leslie Davidson. To bring this matter to the attention of the Senate one needs to be able to understand something of the problems faced within the Aboriginal community. Sometimes I am rather perturbed when I listen to honourable senators and members in the other place speak about Aboriginal matters. It needs more than a casual acquaintance with the Aboriginal community to know something about it as a whole. 
In the city in which I dwell, Ipswich, we have a rather large Aboriginal community. Within that community there is sometimes what one might term 'clan warfare', in a very minor way, between Aborigines who are living in the city. One family group, because of some misunderstanding, may be feuding with another Aboriginal family and quite a deal of fighting goes on. One of these families is named Davidson and the other is named Anderson. The young man that I mentioned by the name of William Leslie Davidson is, naturally, a member of the Davidson clan. The misunderstanding to which I refer has been going on for a number of generations. This young man was charged in the courts with assault and damage to property. But this young man, William Leslie Davidson, has a nickname, Junior'. It is very important that honourable senators understand this. He is not 'Junior' Davidson in the true sense of the white man's understanding of the term, which is of a son named after his father. This lad's nickname is Junior'. He is not 'Junior' in the true sense of the word. There is another young man who also is called 'Junior' because he is named after his father. 
The young man about whom I want to talk this evening, William Leslie Davidson- nicknamed Junior'- was arrested because an Aboriginal man made a complaint to the police. He said that Junior' was one of a number of Aboriginal persons who came to his home one night, assaulted him, gave him a pretty bad thrashing, broke furniture in his home and then went off on his merry way to another home of a member of the Anderson clan to do exactly the same thing. The grandfather of William Leslie Davidson is a gentleman by the name of Les Davidson. He is an Aborigine who worked his way up through the ranks when it was not easy for an Aborigine to do so. Some 40 years ago Les Davidson joined the Ipswich City Council as a labourer. He studied by kerosene lantern light to become a fully qualified tradesman. He became a drainer and he worked with the Ipswich City Council for about 40 years with many men, Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal, under his charge. 
The young lad I have mentioned is the grandson of Les Davidson. He is the son of Les' daughter, who was married twice and whose first husband deserted her. The first husband deserted Les's daughter, leaving young Leslie 
Davidson with his mother as a small child. The grandfather- Les Davidson- and his wife took into their charge young William Leslie Davidson and reared him. 
I suppose that in the white man's way of looking at things this young boy has not had a good life or a good record. He was one of the young lads around Ipswich who played up and got into mischief, like most young boys do. His grandfather lives some  2Vi  miles from the centre of the city and on occasions young William Leslie Davidson with other boys, both Aborigine and non-Aborigine, would pick up pushbikes and ride them home. They did not steal the bikes; they just got hold of them and rode them home, leaving them lying at the side of the road. They were quite happy because they were able to get home a little earlier. This young lad was taken before the juvenile court as a young boy and was sentenced to a boys' home, Riverview, which is just outside Ipswich. So all through his life this young lad has never really reached the top. 
When he was charged with this offence a number of witnesses were prepared to give evidence on his behalf. This young man was represented by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. His grandfather brought to the attention of the Legal Aid Service the names of a number of people who could have substantiated the claim that this young lad was not even within the vicinity of where the alleged crime took place. The people who could have been called by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service to give evidence were not called to give evidence. For what reason they were not called one can only guess. I have the names of those people on a document in front of me. I am qute willing to table that document containing the names of the people who were then, and who still are, prepared to give evidence to the effect that young William Leslie Davidson was not the young Davidson who should have been charged in this case but that it was his cousin, who is a junior in the true sense of the word. The people concerned are adult citizens who were and would still be willing to give evidence in favour of young William Leslie Davidson. The people named are: Sonny Thompson, Charley Speedy and Donald Davidson junior, who is the 'Junior' and who made a statutory declaration in one of the gaols in Victoria that he was the lad who was present and was part of this case, not the William Leslie Davidson who is commonly known as 'Junior'. Then there is Budger Davidson and his wife, John Davidson, John Thompson and his wife, Yvonne Parson, George Thompson and his wife, Keith Davidson senior, Kevin Davidson, George Smith, Slim 
Summerville, who was the driver of the car that allegedly took these men on their rampage, and Michael Davidson. Those people were then and still are prepared to appear and give evidence that this young man is serving 2 years for a crime he never committed. 
-Just be quiet and I will tell you why. Where does an Aborigine go for justice? Justice must not only seem to be done; in my opinion, justice must be done. The very highly respected gentleman to whom I have referred took it upon himself to write to various people for their assistance on behalf of his grandson. What have been the results? May I take up a little time to read a letter that he wrote to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable  Senator J.  L. Cavanagh. It reads: 
Dear  Sir, 
I am writing for advice to help my grandson, William Leslie Davidson aged 2 1 years (Aborigine) who was tried in the District Court in Ipswich before a judge and jury on the 10 September 1974 charged with grievous bodily harm against one Robert Anderson, Cecil McDonald, Collin McDonald, all Aborigines. He was found guilty and sentenced to a term of two years. A subsequent appeal on the 13 November failed. It has been suggested that I bring this matter to your attention. My grandson was able to provide witnesses proving that he was not in the vicinity of the place of assault at the time, Nor were all the witnesses called to testify. I fear that the trial of my grandson, William Leslie Davidson, was in fact a trial by newspaper- I enclose relevant newspaper clipping to show what I mean. It was a case of mistaken identity  Sir, I  would like to go before a high court so that this lad can get a fair hearing. There is no justice for aborigines .... as long as they arrest someone and get a conviction, they are happy 
That was written to  Senator Cavanagh  on 7 November 1974. He received a reply on 25 November 1974, but not from the Minister. That reply stated: 

 Senator Cavanagh has asked me to acknowledge receipt of your recent letter concerning the appearance in the Ipswich District Court of your grandson,  Mr W.  L. Davidson. 
The Minister is seeking some additional information on this matter and will be writing to you personally in due course. 

 Mr Davidson still has not received that further answer to his letter. On 7 February 1975  Mr Davidson  again wrote to his Minister, who is my Minister as an Aboriginal- the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. That letter stated: 
To the Honourable Minister,  Senator Cavanagh. Sir, 
As I wrote to you before concerning my grandson Leslie William Davidson who was serving  2?  years gaol. There is a lot of witnesses who have come to me and asked me why they were not called in as witnesses for William Leslie Davidson. We know that it was wrong identification also for the way that they conducted the defence for William Leslie Davidson was darn right appalling. 
This was written by an Aboriginal grandfather who was concerned and was eating his heart out because his grandson was in gaol and was appealing to the Minister for some assistance and guidance. Again I ask: Where does an Aboriginal go for justice? The letter continued: 
I went in to see M. A. Kent and Associate, and I saw  Mr Thomas.  I asked him what are they doing for William Leslie Davidson and  Mr Thomas  said until they could get a declaration from either witness they cannot do anything. One of the witnesses was in gaol in Victoria and he signed a declaration that he was in the fight at Whitehill Road. He came up to Ipswich to be a witness for William Leslie Davidson but they did not call him to court. So,  Sir, there  is a question I would like to be answered by the barristers and solicitors. Was one Sam Speedy that was identified and not brought to trial. Also Boyd. John Davidson Junior that admitted that he was in the fight was not arrested and brought to trial also the other witness that was there wasn't used by the Barrister,  Mr Pagliarina. 
These are some of the witnesses that were not brought in. 
He lists the names of the people of whom I spoke earlier. That letter was not answered and  Mr Davidson  is still waiting for an answer. 
-That letter was headed Ipswich' and dated 7 February 1975. It has still not been answered. This same dear old gentleman who is eating his heart out for his grandson who is in gaol wrote to the former AttorneyGeneral.  His  letter was dated 18 November 1974. Today he still has not received an answer. I realise that the former Attorney-General is not here now, but surely the officers of that Department are still here. Let me read the letter from  Mr Davidson  to the Honourable L. K. Murphy,  Q.C.,  Attorney-General. It states: 
Dear  Sir, 
On 10 September 1974 my grandson, William Leslie Davidson aged 21, aborigine was tried in the District Court in Ipswich before a Judge and Jury, charged with grievous bodily harm, against one Robert Anderson (aborigine), Cecil McDonald (aborigine) and Colin McDonald (aborigine). He was found guilty and sentenced to a term of two years. A subsequent appeal on the 13 November failed. It has been suggested by  Senator Bonner  who resides in Ipswich, that I bring this matter of injustice to your attention. My grandson was able to provide witnesses proving that he was not in the vicinity of the place of assault at any time. Nor were all the witnesses called to testify. I fear that the trial of my grandson, William Leslie Davidson, was in fact a trial by newspaper and I enclose relevant paper clippings to show what I mean.  Sir, as  you can see by the clipping that it is a case of mistaken identity. Donald Davidson also known as . . . Davidson admitted while in jail he hit someone. Also Robert Anderson. 
That letter has not been answered. The question I keep asking is: Where does an Aborigine go for justice? The type of thing to which  Mr Davidson  refers- trial by newspapers- happens so often with Aborigines. Let me quote some of the things that were said just prior to the case in which young William Leslie Davidson was tried for crimes or alleged crimes in which he had no part. 
It is all right for  Senator Georges  to be squealing his head off now. A moment ago, when the Senate was discussing matters pertaining to white people, he was all upset. When I am bringing before this chamber something pertaining to Aborigines all he can do is natter. If he wants to say something when I finish speaking, he is quite at liberty to do so. Let me quote from some newspaper articles to show what is meant by 'trial by newspapers'. Under the heading 'Aboriginal housing' appears this article: 
In relation to an article in the 'Queensland Times' (21-8-74) headed 'Ipswich Aborigines a forgotten race', outlining an interview with  Mr Fisher  of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee I would like to add a few words in protest. 
This is written by a white resident of Ipswich. It goes on: 

 Mr Fisher appears to be intent on attacking the Queensland Government in relation to Aboriginal housing . . . while I am not suggesting that the Queensland Government is without faults, I think that he and his fellow Aborigines should be very grateful that housing is given to them for small rentals (a privilege not given to other members of the community). 
The article goes on to slate the Aboriginal people in a particular area of the Ipswich city. Another article appearing under the heading 'Story onesided ' states: 
I would like to refer to the story 'Ipswich Aborigines a forgotten race ' (' Q.T. ' 2 1 -8-74). If I was a man I would tell you that it was a load of '. . .' being a woman, I can only say hogwash'. 
It goes on again to slate the Aboriginal community in a particular area in the Ipswich city. There are sheafs and sheafs recording nasty things said by white people about a group of Aborigines who unfortunately do not conform or behave the way the rest of the community would like them to do. This material appeared in the newspapers just prior to the trial of young William Leslie Davidson, who from my observations and my investigations was not the Junior Davidson implicated. Despite all the things that the grandfather tried to do, there seems to be nowhere that an Aborigine can go for justice. Let me read another letter written by the grandfather,  Mr Les  Davidson, to the Minister for Justice in Queensland. It states: 
I am an Aborigine and to whom do I turn (in fact any citizen turn) when it is firmly believed that there has been a miscarriage of justice and an innocent man convicted of a crime? 
I am the grandfather of William Leslie Davidson (known as 'Junior'), the 'Davidson' referred to above, and  Sir, I  appeal to you as part of the democratic system of our State of Queensland. 
There are two (2) 'Junior' Davidsons; one my nephew Donald Davidson Junior, known as 'Boy die' or 'Junior' and my grandson. The latter is serving a sentence in HM Prison (Boggo Road) for the crime in fact committed by the former. My grandson's sentence- In respect of the assault upon Anderson, two and a half years imprisonment with hard labour and in respect of the assault upon Pollard, one and a half years. And the sentences to be served concurrently. 
He wrote this letter to the Attorney-General in Queensland. This is a long letter, and I am quite prepared to table it. 
Do not ask me any more questions. If the honourable senators want to read the documents, they can do so later.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in Hansard. 
It is my firm conviction that while one person is wrongfully convicted of a crime and good people do nothing then justice is not being served. So  Sir, apart  from being his grandfather, I'll not cease till I have explored every avenue to have this wrong righted. 
I 'm only an average bloke, a retired Drainer and Foreman of the Ipswich City Council, but with my average intelligence I am able to see after reading the transcript of my grandson 's trial that it contains many contradictions; many questions left unanswered; much doubt as to which 'Junior' Davidson, committed the crime. 
I think perhaps the major 'incident' eating at me, is that my nephew Donald Davidson Junior (known as 'Junior') was waiting in Ipswich on the days of the trial, expecting and prepared, to be called on as a Witness. Prepared to tell the truth; yet he was not called by Prosecution or Defence. Yet this same 'Junior' Davidson had made a Declaration while imprisoned in Pentridge Gaol, New South Wales. I submit his Declaration was relevant to the case! Other persons with knowledge of the case were also awaiting on the trial days, but they also were not called to the stand. (Their names would be supplied by me at your request; they certainly could throw new light on the case). 
Another major nightmare in my mind is that prior to the trial much had appeared in the local newspaper 'The Queensland Times in the column- Letters to the Editor- re the bad behaviour of Aborigines in the vicinity of the 'crime ' i.e. 1 54 White hill Road, Ipswich. And things in the press concerning 'Blacks' tending to interest European readers (if that news' is against Aborigines) would then of course sway the thinking of an all-white jury.  Sir, why  was there not a change of venue? Justice was certainly not served. While on this point, and to digress for a moment; why are Aborigines not called more frequently for Jury duty? Where is our trial by peers? 
There is a great deal I would like to put to you personally (or a high representative of yourself) concerning my grandson's situation. Is this possible and may I be accompanied by 

 Senator Bonner whom I have known for almost forty (40) years, or by  Mrs Bonner  whom I have known for fifteen (15) years? 
Another point comes to my mind concerning  Mrs Bonner.  Early in the Police investigation of the case,  Mrs Bonner  a J.P. and fully conversant with Aborigines in the Ipswich area rang the Detective on the case and informed him that in her opinion (an opinion which the Ipswich Police have never hesitated to seek during the past many, many years) William Leslie Davidson known as 'Junior', was not the 'Junior' whom the Police should be questioning but Donald Davidson Junior. This advice was totally disregarded, why? 
I pray my letter  Sir warrants  a reply; I pray it warrants an Officer of your Department further investigating. In Australia, Aborigines have tried all types of avenues seeking justice; perhaps we've been wrong at times. Now  Senator Bonner  tells us that we must work through the system, so this is my attempt to try the democratic system. 
-What answer did this gentleman receive from the Attorney-General in Queensland? At least it was an answer. Honourable senators can listen to it, as follows: 
Thank you for your letter concerning your grandson William Leslie Davidson. 
I, have examined the contents of your letter very carefully, but I regret to inform you that there does not appear to be any way in which I can be of assistance. The matters which you have raised should, I think, be referred to your grandson's legal representative. 
At least the Attorney-General of Queensland had the decency to answer the letter, whereas the Federal Attorney-General did not even have the courtesy to do so, and neither did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who stands up in this chamber so often and says what a wonderful job his Government is doing for the Aboriginal people. I am sorry that I have had to take up so much of the Senate's dme this evening, considering that many honourable senators desire to get home. However, I believe this matter needed to be aired in this Parliament. I hope that some honourable senator who may have a legalistic mind, or who may have some decency in him, will take up this case for William Leslie Davidson, who is serving time in  Her  Majesty's prison, Bogga Road, Queensland, for a crime he never committed. A number of people whom his grandfather has contacted have done absolutely nothing to help; some of them have not even had the courtesy or decency to write to the dear old gentleman and tell him that they cannot or are not prepared to do something for him. I believe this is not only a case of trial by newspapers but also a case of a gross miscarriage of justice. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster General. Has the Department of Services and Property signed a lease for  a  multi-storey building in Carlton, Melbourne, for the Australian Post Office? If not, is the Department negotiating such a lease? If the lease lias been signed, what is the purpose of the building? 
If the purpose is to house one of the two proposed commissions which the Government intends to set up to take over the operations of the Australian Post Office from 1 July 1975, what authority did the Department of Services and Property have to enter such negotiations prior to the Parliament approving the legislation for the commissions? If the lease has been signed, what is the annual rental? From what date does it apply? Who are the owners of the building? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by stating that it has been drawn to my attention that a number of pensioners- age and invalid- who have made their contribution through working and paying taxes but who unfortunately have not until late in life been able to build or purchase their own homes are experiencing great difficulty in doing so. I ask: Will the Minister give consideration to granting supplementary assistance, presently payable to pensioners who are paying rent or occupying board and lodgings, to pensioners who are purchasing their own homes and accordingly making regular payments? 
I ask the ' PostmasterGeneral: Are there any proposals in the Postmaster-General's Department to remove the "Royal Mail' insignia from all identifiable property of the Government's proposed postal commission? If so, will the Minister indicate whether these proposals will be adopted? What are the reasons for the proposals? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I preface the question by informing the Minister that it has been brought to my attention that a number of people who have applied for war service homes loans have been told that their applications have been approved and then have been told that no money is available. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the war service homes division has funds on hand? Is it a fact that the Division is out of funds and awaiting new appropriations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate if the Defence Service Homes Division has funds on hand, or is it a fact that the Division is out of funds and is awaiting a new appropriation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Services and Property signed a lease for a multi-storey building in Carlton, Melbourne, for the Australian Post Office; if not, is the Department of Services and Property negotiating such a lease. 
If the lease has been signed (a) what is the purpose of the building; (b) if the purpose of the building is for one of the proposed two Commissions which the Government proposes will take over the operations of the existing Australian Post Office from 1 July 1975, what authority did the Department of Services and Property have to enter into such negotiations prior to the Parliament approving the legislation on the Commission; (c) if the lease has been signed, what is the annual rental and from what date does is apply; and (d) who are the owners of the building. 
Unfortunately,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have not had the opportunity to hear all the debate on this Bill. I have mixed feelings about it because for so many years of my life I have known racial prejudice and discrimination. I have leaned to the thought that one could not legislate for human attitudes and human feelings. I believe that we should be looking at a very extensive program to educate all Australians to a better understanding and a better appreciation of those people in the community who have different coloured skin, who are of different nationalities or who have different religious beliefs. Over the last few years, particularly since becoming a senator for Queensland, I have had the opportunity to travel quite extensively throughout Australia. To my consternation, to my hurt and to my shame I have found throughout this country discrimination and prejudice aimed particularly at one of the minority groups. I speak particularly of the Aboriginal community. 
I have had the opportunity to read some of the speeches on this Bill. Some have said that there is no discrimination. I say to all and sundry: Ask an Italian, a Sicilian, or a Greek who has been called, to use some of the denigrating terms that have been used, a wop or a greaser or ask a Jew who has been called a hooknose or a moneybags whether he knows what discrimination is. Ask some of the Aboriginal people who have been called boongs Abos and such like whether there is discrimination. There is discrimination and we must do something about it. I congratulate the Government for introducing this Bill, and 1 have congratulated it on other occasions for some of its enlightened legislation and attitudes towards the indigenous people. This evening I congratulate it again for bringing this Bill to the Parliament. I do not agree with the Bill in its entirety. Some amendments are to be moved by my Party, and I will be supporting them. 
I return to my earlier remarks. For many years I believed that one could not legislate for human attitudes. I still believe that. This evening I have mixed feelings to some extent because I have travelled and have seen what has happened to members of my race. Perhaps if there is a law which says that we cannot discriminate against people some hope and some dignity will be given back to members of my race. Perhaps a law which says that they can now go to a certain area or that now they cannot be discriminated against in employment is a law that will protect them. Whether legislation can force people to do these things may not be the main issue as far as I and my people are concerned. Maybe such a law will now give them some confidence because they will know that the law of this land and the parliaments of this land have said: 'Enough, enough. No more discrimination against those who are less fortunate in the community, those who have a different coloured skin, those who speak a different tongue or those who are not so well educated. Now they can be free citizens in our community'. 
This evening someone said something about freedom that was given in England. Sure, we can say that the people in Australia are free. We say that there are opportunities for all. What are opportunities if one is not able to take advantage of them? Take this example: One is living in pretty appalling conditions, and sees an advertisement in a paper that flats are available in a certain area or a house is available to rent. One rings the number that is quoted in the newspaper and says to the person: 'I saw your advertisement in the newspaper. You have a house to rent'. The person replies: 'Yes'. One says: 'Look, I am coming round to see you'. The person replies: 'By all means do'. One goes to the address and knocks on the door. A man comes to the door. He says: What do you want?' One replies: 'I am here in answer to your advertisement'. He says: 'Sorry, the house is not available. It was taken 5 minutes ago'. One cannot say that he was doing that because one is an Aborigine, but it seems very strange that within 15 or 20 minutes, somehow or other, the house has been taken and is not available. The man has seen that one is black. Is that freedom? 
I quote a case in which I was involved 8 or 9 years ago. I was manager of a farm. Unfortunately the company which owned it was closing down. It gave me a month's notice. During that month I scanned the newspapers because I had 7 children at school and I had to support and feed them. I was looking for another job. There were advertisements in the papers about a manager required for a farm or for a family to work a farm. I answered one of these advertisements. I took my son with me. We drove to the farm. A chap met us at the gate. He leaned over the gate and said: 'What do you chaps want?' Prior to that I had rung him and he had told me to come and look at the house and conditions, how far it would be for my children to go to school, and so on. At that time I did not tell him I was an Aborigine. I was just talking to him on the telephone. When we arrived he said: 'Yes, what do you chaps want?' I said: 'I am Neville Bonner. I spoke to you on the telephone about the job on the farm'. He said: 'I am sorry, it would not be available to you. I could not have an Aborigine working on my farm because we are supplying milk'. There is no discrimination, according to some people. 
I have already explained that I am supporting the Bill. For the benefit of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who was not in the chamber earlier, I have said also that on occasions 1 have congratulated his Government for some of its enlightened attitudes to Aborigines, and I was congratulating his Government for introducing this Bill. I think I should enlighten the Minister as he has just come into the chamber. I am supporting the Bill, but I am supporting also the amendments which will be moved because there are some areas in the Bill that concern me greatly. I think that certain people whom the Bill is designed to protect will not get that protection. I am afraid I do not have a copy of the Bill with me. I cannot quote the relevant clauses. I believe that freedon of speech is something that all of us have enjoyed for many years. I hope we will continue to enjoy it. 
I am a little concerned because many young Aboriginal people in the community today have become impatient for change. They have become angry young men and angry young women. We have had examples of this in demonstrations against the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to demonstrations in George Street, Brisbane, and in Canberra, against the previous Government and against the present Government. I wonder whether there is an area in the Bill through which Aborigines will suffer. The Bill is supposed to protect them. Because of past discrimination and things that have happened in the past, a group of young Aboriginal men and women could become angry, and outside this place they could shout, 'Down with the whitey ', or something about some race of people. Under this Bill they can then be summonsed, taken to court and gaoled or what have you. So I still have some mixed feelings about this Bill. I do not wish to go over all the ground that has been traversed by a number of speakers. I reserve my right to say more on the amendments that will be moved at the Committee stage. 
I present the following petition from 705 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled: We the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully refer to the Bill concerning the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
We are not necessarily against the formation of such an organisation. 
We do however, feel that the Bill could be rushed through Parliament without sufficient deliberation. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Bill be referred to a Senate Select Committee or Public Enquiry Committee. In this way submissions from interested parties can be called for. 
Recommendations from this Committee would then reflect the true wishes of the Australian electorate. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I join with my colleague  Senator Rae  in saying how pleased I am that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and his Government have now seen fit to accept this amendment to the Bill. The 3 major parties in the federal sphere, as I understand it, have as part of their policy self-determination for Aborigines. Today we have seen that policy being implemented for the first time. It gives Aborigines on Aboriginal communities selfdetermination. I opposed the relevant clauses when the Bill was first introduced. I can assure the Committee that I would have continued to oppose them today if the Minister had not moved his amendment which gives back to the Aboriginal communities the power to exclude persons from entering communities.  Senator Georges  expressed some concern- perhaps rightly so- that the councillors would now have the power to keep people off the communities and not allow them to return. He said that they have a basic right to return. I do not believe that is quite correct. They have a basic right to live on a community provided they are not interfering with the rights of other people living on the community. A person who might want to live on a community could be excluded by the councillors if he were causing problems on the community and if he were not prepared to live on the community and to abide by the standards set on that community. That would be the only reason a councillor or a council would not permit anyone to return to a community. I think that is right. 
The decision would be made by the council which is elected by the community. The 5 councillors on each community are elected by the Aboriginal people on the community. To suggest that 5 members of a council would be victimising people does not hold water because they would be tossed out at the next election, the same as we would be if we were not doing our job. The electorate would soon take care of that by not re-electing us next time around. The councillors on the Aboriginal communities are quite aware of that fact, and if they were doing those things they would not be doing them for long. I am very pleased to support the amendment because for the first time in the history of Australia Aborigines are really getting self-determination. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property aware that the Secretary of the Department of Services and Property has issued a directive that a large portrait or photograph of the Prime Minister be hung in a prominent place in all Australian Government centres? If the Minister is aware of this fact, can he inform the Senate as to the purpose of this direction and when it was issued? 
I present the following petition from 138 citizens of Australia: 
The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 1 , Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 2, Add to the taxpayer's burden. 3, Trade unfairly. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Lead to the nationalization of the Insurance Industry. 
Divert a substantial flow of funds from the private to the public sector. 
Depress the private sector still further and create unemployment both within the Insurance Industry and elsewhere. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I enter this debate in order, in the first instance, to congratulate the Government on bringing forward this Bill which seeks to preserve the National Estate. Having recently had the opportunity to visit the United Kingdom and to see what is being done there to preserve the National Estate, I believe that it is high time that Australia looked to this area to do something more constructive than has been done in the past. By the same token, I hope that we will not forget that the National Estate of this nation did not start in the year 1788. We have much to preserve in that which has developed in Australia since the advent of the white man in 1788; but there are many other areas that need to be looked at very closely. 
Whilst I am conscious of what has been done by both Federal and State governments in relation to the Aboriginal heritage of this nation, we must not forget that anthropologists and other learned people have shown that we, the Aboriginal people, have been here for some 50 000 years. Whilst we are looking at the preservation of the national heritage of Australia, we must not forget that there are many things which need to be preserved and which were here long before 1788. I hope that the Aboriginal people- the indigenous people of this nation- will have the opportunity to be represented and to put forward their point of view in relation to what should be preserved in this nation as the national heritage of the Australian Aborigines. Whilst I congratulate the Government on its initiative on this issue, I point out that the national heritage of Australia did not start in 1788; it started long before that. We want to preserve buildings and other aspects of the history of this nation for future generations of Australians; but let us not forget that there are many other things which need to be preserved and which had their origin long before the advent of the white man to Australia. 
I want to take up a few minutes of the time of the Senate to say how disappointed I am- as I am quite sure are many Aborigines throughout the length and breadth of Australia- at what appears to be our loss of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh. Senator Cavanagh  has held the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs for a considerable time. I congratulate him for his achievements in that period and express my deep concern at the transfer of  Senator Cavanagh  from that portfolio. 
I would appreciate the indulgence of the Senate and particularly of Government members because I am giving great credit to the man who has held this portfolio for some time. I believe that many Aborigines throughout Australia will be conscious of the loss of a very fine Minister from this portfolio, a Minister who has done a remarkable job for the Aboriginal people. 

 - Senator Poyser should be quiet for a moment while I am giving some credit to a man who has done a great job for the Aboriginal people of this nation.  Mr President,  I am very concerned at the loss to the Aboriginal people. 
I present the following petition from 65 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government' Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
b) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and Improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully refer to the Bill concerning the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
We are not necessarily against the formation of such an organisation. We do, however, feel that the Bill could be rushed through Parliament without sufficient deliberation. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Bil! be referred to a Senate Select Committee or Public Enquiry Committee. In this way submissions from interested parties can be called for. Recommendations from this Committee would then reflect the true wishes of the Australian electorate. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I apologise for taking up the time of the Senate to speak on the motion for the adjournment this evening. We are getting towards the end of the sessional period and honourable senators will probably give me no marks for delaying them at this stage of the sitting. But the matter that I bring to the attention of the Senate this evening is one of grave concern to me. On 5 June, approximately a week ago, we debated in this chamber the Australian Heritage Commission Bill. Some very fine speeches were made by people on both sides of the chamber. I commend them for their concern in this area. I, myself, felt that I should put in my tuppence worth and I spoke for a very short period, bringing to the attention of the Senate the fact that we, the Aboriginal people, too, have a heritage that we would like to be preserved with the rest of the Australian heritage. There is much that we want to preserve and I believe that it behoves the people of this nation to give us every assistance to do this. 
This evening, I shall refer to Ukerebagh Island, New South Wales, just off the Tweed River. I am speaking on behalf of  Mr Cedric  C. Morgan,  President  of the Tweed Aboriginal and Islanders Entitlement Scheme; the Secretary,  Mrs Noelene  Lever; the Treasurer,  Mr Noel  Browning; the Senior Vice-President,  Mr Earl  Budd; and the Junior Vice-President,  Mrs Joyce  V. Summers. In turn, these young people speak on behalf of all we islanders and Aborigines who are from the Tweed, especially those of us who were born on the Tweed and more especially those of us whose roots are firmly embedded in Ukerebagh Island. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that these young people to whom I refer some time ago formed themselves into a movement termed the 'Aboriginal and Islanders Entitlement Scheme'. We claim Ukerebagh Island as our entitlement. Ukerebagh Island comprises approximately 1 50 acres of high good ground and approximately 100 acres of lower swampy ground. It is uninhabited except by the ghosts of Aborigines and islanders who lived and died there- victims of the white man's greed. You came, you saw and you conquered as you proclaimed in those days that our land was your land. The white people of that era herded my parents and my grandparents and their contemporaries on to Ukerebagh Island to live and to die in the blacks' camp there. Your crime in those days was hideously cruel; ours was that we were of black skin and therefore presumed savages and unintelligent. Yes, many, many, did die through insufficient rations, your exotic diseases, heartache and the cold- that unforgettable cold that I knew and suffered as a little boy on Ukerebagh Island. You introduced grog. But equally as many people lived, and I stand here this evening, Australia, as your ghost, your conscience, your demand to right what was wrong on Ukerebagh Island 53 years ago. 
Ukerebagh Island was declared a reserve and given to Aborigines in 1927 but Aborigines lived there long before that- many, many years before that. On 24 December 1861 it was declared a water reserve, but on to that water reserve were herded the Aborigines and Islanders those many years ago. On 4 December 1927 the island was gazetted, No. 59497: 'Reserved from sale for use of Aborigines'; on 26 October 1951 it was again gazetted, No. 74549: 'Reserved from sale for future public requirements'. The papers referring to the above revocation are PKS5 15906, and for some strange and unknown reason, despite the efforts of the young people of whom I spoke, those papers cannot be found. I am asking this evening why they cannot be found, because I want them found. I want them located so that we, the Aboriginal people, will know the reasons for this sudden change. 
The last Aborigines left Ukerebagh Island and moved to the mainland, but they did not do that because they no longer desired to live there. They did it because they were forced by the authorities to leave, since by that time it was felt that Aboriginal children should be educated. There were 2 ways to leave or to go to Ukerebagh Island- swim or row. Honourable senators can imagine what it was like in those days, without the kind of money and job opportunities that are available today, and the parents of those children could not provide even the rowing boat so they could not get their children to school. They were told by the authorities that if they did not send their children to school then they- the parents- would be gaoled and their children would be taken away. So they left the island. Then the Government decided that it would revoke what had been done in 1927. It contacted the welfare department and asked if the department required the island for an Aboriginal reserve. The answer was no, that the Aboriginal people were not living there. So without consultation with Aborigines and without ascertaining the reason why the Aborigines left the island, the reserve was gazetted and reserved from sale for future public requirements. 
Today, it is not inhabited. As I said, I have returned there a couple of times in the last few years and my latest return was last weekend. It was on that island 53 years ago, under a palm tree that still stands and among the lantana bushes in the blacks' camp, that my mother gave birth to me on the ground on a government blanket. The Tweed Shire and the New South Wales State Government- I regret that I have not been able to contact the Minister for Lands in New South Wales because he has been awayhave decided now that the island should be opened up for development. There are extensive plans, and I have those plans with me. They show that there now will be a road going right across to Ukerebagh Island from the town of Tweed Heads, to link up with the sand spit of Fingal Point. So the area will be opened up. I am given to understand that Markwell 's fish factory has been promised 40 acres of the Aboriginal reserve. That again will be taken away from the Aborigines for use as fish markets. There will be other development there. 
I am led to believe that developers are saying today that they think the Island is worth about $10m. I am not concerned with what the white man's value of Ukerebagh Island is. What I am concerned with is that there is a group of the descendants of those people who many years ago were forced to go to live on Ukerebagh Island, because of the white man's greed, and who died there. The descendants of these people want to retain this land. They want to retain it as an Aboriginal reserve. They are desirous of putting on the island sporting facilities for the Aboriginal community. They want to build a football field on the island. They want to put up huts on the island. They want to develop playing areas for the Aboriginal children and they also want to use part of the land for an animal sanctuary. 
In the Tweed area there are many koala bears but unfortunately, again because of the white man's greed, these animals are dying out fast. I looked at an area alongside the road where 100 acres ,of beautiful gum flats were completely dozed out and turned into desert. If anyone knows anything about koala bears he would know that it is this type of tree on which they live and thrive. Here again is something that the Aboriginal people want to preserve. They want to preserve this area for the animal life that is fast dying out, again because of the white man's greed in developing this area and making the place look like a desert. 
The present Government- I have said this on many occasions and I make no retraction from what I have said- has implemented some very good policies in relation to Aborigines. Despite what the Tweed Shire Council or the State Government of New South Wales want to do with this place I maintain that the Australian Government can do something about it because I am given to understand- I think I have seen reports of this in the Press- that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has said that the Government will be introducing into this chamber legislation to enable the purchase, at a cost of about $ 193m, of some 7 1/2 million acres of land from the Queensland Government and the handing over of this land to the Aboriginal people. Let the Government put its money where its mouth is and do the same for the Aboriginal people in the Tweed River area, in relation to Ukerebagh Island. 
I have previously been accused of making emotional speeches in this chamber. I make no apology for any emotional speeches that I have made in relation to the Aboriginal question because it is an emotional issue, it is a very complex issue and, to some people on both sides of the chamber, it is probably a vexed question. But it is a question which this nation has to face up to sooner or later, and let us hope that it will be sooner than later, particularly in relation to Ukerebagh Island and to the wishes of the descendants of the Aboriginal people who were herded on to that island to die out of sight, out of mind. I hope that the Government, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, will make a thorough investigation into this matter because things are moving very fast on the Tweed. I looked at the island last weekend and there are survey pegs all over it. There are survey pegs that have been put in only in the last 12 months. They have also started pumping sand to reclaim some of the swamplands. I am sure that very shortly they intend to develop Ukerebagh Island, again for the greed of the white man in that area. 
Like my colleague,  Senator Durack,  I rise not to oppose the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Bill but to welcome its introduction. I believe that it is high time that legislation of this kind was introduced into the Parliament. The Great Barrier Reef, running from the Cape York Peninsula to well down the Queensland coast, is one of the great wonders of the world. I believe that if we can do anything to preserve this great reef and this great wonder of the world we should be doing it, and that we all should be united in our attitude towards achieving that end. As a Queenslander I am very proud- I know that all Queenslanders are proud- of our Great Barrier Reef. We realise that it must be preserved as part of our national heritage. But unlike other States which have national heritages which are part of the State and which lie within the State, the Great Barrier Reef is adjacent to the coast of Queensland and probably falls into a different category to other areas of this nature. As I have said, as Queenslanders we are very proud of the Barrier Reef. I must say on behalf of the Queensland Government that over a number of years it has done a lot towards protecting this great wonder of the world. It is not a great wonder only for Australians. It is something of which all mankind should be proud, and it should be preserved for all mankind and not just Queenslanders and Australians. 
The reef itself covers a vast area. In some places along the coast of Queensland it may be only 5 or 6 miles from the shore. In other areas it can run up to 60 miles out from the shore. Unfortunately, many people do not have a complete understanding or appreciation of the Great Barrier Reef. There are people who think that the Great Barrier Reef is the part of the reef which is exposed at low tide and which people can view, to see the beauty and the wonderful colours to which my colleague  Senator Wood  has referred, together with the marine life, the fish and the other forms of life on the reef. Unfortunately, what people do not seem to realise is that a great amount of this Great Barrier Reef is not exposed and is not even visible to people who may travel over it by boat or by any other means. A vast amount of the reef is submerged under water. Whilst I believe it is good that we are able to introduce legislation to protect the reef, I am a little concerned at some points which were made in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon).  I hope that the Minister will be able to give me at least some assurance, because I have some apprehension about certain points. The Minister stated: 
Once the legislation is passed, the Government will be able to declare and protect zones of the Reef as national parks or nature reserves, which will then be managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
I have no argument with that part of his speech. But he went on to say: 
Other zones will be set aside for tourist development, for shipping, fishing and other appropriate uses. 
The last part of that sentence gives me some concern. I hope the Minister will be able to give me some clarification with regard to 'other appropriate uses'. As my colleague  Senator Wood  saidthough I do not agree with all he said- for a number of years there has been talk of the possibility that oil can be found on the Great Barrier Reef. That is one reason I am concerned at the words 'other appropriate uses'. I hope that that does not mean that the Government or the people who will be responsible for the preservation of the Reef will not be too hasty if ever they are contemplating giving permission for drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The words other appropriate uses' in the Minister's second reading speech do concern me because the meaning is not spelt out. 
I do not agree with my colleague  Senator Wood  who says that it does not matter if drilling takes place on the Barrier Reef because only one in every 1000 oil wells has blown out and caused any problems. Just a few years ago we had a classic example of what can happen to the wondrous Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Queensland. An oil tanker went aground there and the oil from it spilled and was drifting around the waters of the Great Barrier Reef. Much of the reef was destroyed and also the culture pearl industry, which was of great value to Queensland, was destroyed. Many of the farms that were established in the northern part of Queensland were completely wiped out. The occurrence could have had great effect on the Reef itself. Last year I visited Bamaga, an Aboriginal community on the Cape York Peninsula. I was up there to open the Bamaga show. I was taken to the furthermost point of the Cape York Pen.sinsula and evidence of the oil spill was still there. It is still there today. Great blobs of this oil are on the rocks all around the edge of the Cape York Peninsula showing what can happen when there is an oil spillage. 
Until a complete investigation, an environmental study and scientific research is made to find out whether drilling can be undertaken on the Reef with safety I hope that this legislation will afford protection to the Reef. I hope that drilling will not be permitted on the Great Barrier Reef or, for that matter, off the Great Barrier Reef. It does not matter whether drilling is undertaken on the Reef, off it or over the edge because if there is an oil blowout the Reef can be destroyed. As I said earlier this is not just a matter for the people of Queensland or even for the people of Australia. I believe that this Reef and its wonders must be preserved for the whole of mankind. As I said earlier we in Queensland are conscious of this and have been conscious of it for a long time. Apart from everything else we have had an opportunity over a number of years to see millions of people- not only Australians but also people from overseas- flocking to Queensland to view the wonders of the Great Barrier Reef. The tourist industry contributes greatly to the economy of Queensland. The Reef is there and it must be preserved for all of mankind. 
I spent many years living on an island off the coast of Queensland. I had the opportunity to swim on many parts of the Reef looking for trochus shell. At times the Aboriginal community on Palm Island were able to make some money from the gathering of trochus shell. The Torres Strait Islanders conducted this kind of business for many years. The Great Barrier Reef has an abundance of wealth to offer, not only to the people of Queenland but also to all mankind. So I am very happy this evening to support this measure. I am also very happy to note that the Queensland Government will be represented in this endeavour to preserve the Great Barrier Reef. Perhaps one could express some disappointment that there is not more representation from the Queensland Government and the Queensland people. I am a firm believer in the federal system, but I am also a firm believer in a co-operative federal system, not a centralist system where all power is vested in Canberra. I hope that some time in the very near future when the Opposition Parties regain the Government benches we will be able to review this legislation and ensure that the people of Queensland have greater representation on the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
-I wish to associate myself with this condolence motion in relation to the later Bertie Richard Milliner. I knew Bertie- as I am sure he was known to all his colleagues and to thousands of Queenslanders and Australians generally- to be a warm-hearted, friendly person. When I first came into the Senate in 197 1, Bertie Milliner was one of the first persons here to extend the hand of friendship to me. As in the case of my colleague  Senator Devitt,  Bertie Milliner and I struck up a very firm friendship. In the true Australian way, I regarded Bertie then- and I will remember him very fondly- as a good mate. 
He made his contributions in this chamber, and they were worthwhile contributions. He asked no quarter and he gave none, but to thousands of Queenslanders he will be remembered very fondly, because he was most conscious of his duties as a senator for Queensland, and he helped many, many people in that capacity. I am sure that he will be remembered with great fondness for the human touch and for those things he was able to do for many people, as well as for his contributions as a senator representing Queensland.  Sir, I  wish to proffer my deep sympathy to his wife and family.  Mrs Milliner  has lost a great husband, his children have lost a great father, and his grandchildren have lost a great grandfather, but Queensland has lost a great Queenslander. 

 Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 


 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania-Leader of the Government in the Senate)-  Mr President,  as a mark of respect to the memory of our late colleague,  Senator Milliner,  I suggest that the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 

 Sitting suspended from 4.33 to 8 p.m. 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister, to avoid bloodshed, instigate a full inquiry into the Trotskyists and other elements who have taken over the Aboriginal militant movement and the distribution by them of firearms and hard drugs to young Aborigines. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 4 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
) That while there is a need to establish in Australia u Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the Insurance Industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2m initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated ) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 

 -Mr President, as the petition exceeds 250 words in length and I should like it to  be  read, I ask that leave be given for the petition to  be  read  by  the  Clerk. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise Insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and Improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed to be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words, and I would like it read, I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has there been any change over the past month or so in the criteria for a grant of legal assistance from the Australian Legal Aid Office? In particular, has the means test been made more stringent or is it being applied more stringently? Have the areas of law or categories of clients within which or for which assistance is provided been redefined or has the Office recently been directed to keep within such areas or categories? Are the various offices operating on a restricted basis in any respect? Have there been delays in the Australian Legal Aid Office making payments due to solicitors to whom clients have been assigned by the Office? 
I present the following petition from 75 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life' assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2m initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words, I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property inform the Senate of the position held by  Mr Barry  Cotterrell in the Australian Government Centre, Brisbane? Is  Mr Barry  Cotterrell a member of the Commonwealth Public Service employed in Queensland? If the answer is in the negative, will the Minister inform the Senate why  Mr Barry  Cotterrell occupies a ministerial office and has the use of all facilities provided therein by the Government in the Australian Government Centre, Brisbane? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Barry  Cotterrell is the endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the Brisbane City Council ward of Camp Hill for the forthcoming municipal election? If  Mr Barry  Cotterrell is still employed by the Commonwealth Public Service, when will this employment terminate to allow  Mr Cotterrell  to conduct his campaign for the forthcoming municipal election? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs sighted Press releases in which solicitors involved with the Aboriginal Legal Service have called for a royal commission into relationships between the Aboriginal community and the police forces? Will the Minister inform the Senate what action he intends to take through his Government to institute a nationwide royal commission into the alleged discrimination by law enforcement agencies against Aboriginal people? 

 -Mr President, like the previous  speaker, Senator Grimes,  I do not intend to take up a great deal of the Senate's time this afternoon, but I want to say that I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by my Leader,  Senator Withers.  At the same time I feel I would be rather remiss if I did not make some brief comments on the Budget. The present Budget, for which we, the Opposition, and the people of Australia waited so eagerly, was heralded as being a concerned Government's attempt to come to very real grips with our flagging economy. The brainchild of a fearless Minister who bulldozed Medibank through against the overwhelming weight of public opinion, the man whom the Government lauded as the economic saviour of our nation, has arrived with all the impact of what one can only term a lead balloon. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  delivered this abortive attempt in the other place with tongue in cheek, I am sure, as his voice rang with a promissory note. With such short-sighted measures he has placed our great nation further in hock and sought to obscure the Budget's shortcomings with bland promises of a much sought tax relief. 
Since delivering this epic the Treasurer has retired, one can only say, to lick his wounds after being harassed by  Mr Hawke  and castigated by  Dr J.  F. Cairns. No doubt he is bewildered by these attacks from his colleagues. He no doubt is also reflecting on his own precarious position as Treasurer No. 3 of Australia, a position which seems to rest on the whim of the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  He no doubt is bemused by this great economic brainchild, which has been exploded by every well-known economist and exposed in this chamber and in the other place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as a shoddy attempt to stabilise our economy. That in reality is not the situation as we see it. I and, I am sure, many other Australians are wondering where was all the fire and zeal which the Minister called upon to force Medibank upon the unreceptive Australian public. It certainly was not evident in this Budget that he has brought down. 
This Budget, at best, could be described as a political compromise, and a very weak one at that, by a Government which, due to its waning popularity, is loath to take the necessary and somewhat unpopular measures to combat the very real problems of inflation and unemployment. I am sure many Australians will agree with me, when I categorically state that these ills which presently beset our economy have been created by this Government's lavish and reckless spending. Might I further emphasise that remark by stating that I was most disappointed with the Treasurer's performance in the Budget. 1, like many Australians, have always held the Treasurer in the highest regard as a man of principle, a man above political compromise, a man of integrity and a man who would place the nation's need above and beyond any party loyalty. I also have the greatest regard for  Mr Hayden  's economic ability and I am quite confident that he was aware of the remedies needed to stabilise our economy. But much to my surprise and, I think, Australia's disappointment,  Mr Hayden  chose the course of compromise and showed that he placed this above statesmanship. It was a sad day indeed for Australia. May I commend the following quotation to the Treasurer and all members of the Government for their honest and sincere consideration. It is by that well-known American poet, essayist and diplomat of the 19th century, James Russell Lowell. I quote: 
Compromise makes a good umbrella, but a poor roof; it is a temporary expedient, often wise in party politics, almost sure to be unwise in statesmanship. 
The Budget is a mere stop-gap measure and is nothing more than the old sugar and castor oil ploy by which the Government is once more attempting to dope or to dupe the Australian people. The Prime Minister and his advisers underestimate the people of Australia. I know, and I am sure you would know,  Sir, that  there is a present awareness in all walks of life that there is something drastically wrong with our economy. I am certainly no economist. However, one does not have to be a Rhodes Scholar, like  Mr Hawke,  to work out that even with an increased pay packet the purchasing power of the dollar has greatly diminished. One only has to look around to see the vast number of people unemployedthe highest since the great Depression of the 1 930s. No one has to tell me much about those days because 1 was a young lad during the depression years. I know what it felt like to be one of those living under the conditions of that era. One looks around today and is reminded of the worst industrial unrest in the history of this grand nation. The workers, God help them, are at the mercy of this Government which proposes to represent them. To me and to many workers today that representation appears to be a joke. This Government is at present fully committed to policies which are designed completely to erode all those democratic rights which we as a nation fought two major conflicts to preserve. This Budget promises the people the world and gives them nothing. Almost before they get anything the Government takes it away. The Labor Party is suitably named as it labours to give birth to the embryo of socialism. 
All this talk about reduced taxation is grossly misleading in my opinion, as pay as you earn taxation for the average Australian will rise by some $ 1 86 this year. I will concede that there is relief for those people on incomes of less than $5,000 a year, but in the light of spiralling incomes this relief is limited to but a few. I sincerely state that any person expected to exist on this wage in the present economic situation should have this relief as of right and not as a concession of a government using their plight as a political gambit. I do not need to read any lengthy treatise on the social and economic plight, which is that of the worker today. I would remind honourable senators on both sides of this House that until 4'/2 years ago I was a bridge carpenter- and proudly one- bringing home a pay packet from which I provided the then accepted every day necessities of life, admittedly with a few luxuries for a family that I had to rear. I was by no stretch of the imagination wealthy. But under a coalition government and the stable economy which it engendered I provided- and, I submit, provided adequately- for my family. 
What about today under this Government? To retain some form of decent living would require a second pay packet. Today it is becoming a very essential factor in our society that the wife has to work to provide those every day accepted luxuries which the working man could once enjoy under the stable government that we enjoyed for some 23 years. It is a case of the old adage of the dog chasing its tail because the great tax reform greatly reduces any advantage even of 2 incomes. This economic evil which forces both parents to work to make ends meet is one of the main causes of the breakdown of the family unit as we once knew it and it throws open the doors to those numerous social evils which beset our present day society. Where are the increases in child endowment which are long overdue- those benefits which would ensure that the woman who wishes to stay at home and raise her family in the age old tradition is not disadvantaged. Every step the Government takes seems to me to encourage the working mother and completely destroy the home unit. This happens in communist countries to create a community where people are completely dependent upon the Big Brother state to provide. I and many Australians rue the day that this ideology should ever manifest itself in this our beloved Australia. 
Let me return to the other grossly unjust aspect of this Budget- the indirect taxes, once again designed to unfairly affect the wage earner. If by chance the wage earner is in the tax bracket in which he receives some tax relief, it is quickly ripped off him by other snide means. How many average workers smoke? If the worker does smoke, his cigarettes are up in price by 6c to 9c. If he drinks, his beer is up and if he drives a motor car his petrol is going up. These are not luxuries at all as we understand the word in Australia, but are the basic entitlements of the wage earner. The tax on beer, wines, spirits and cigarettes is estimated to take $600m from the taxpayer- the average worker- the man who has contributed through a long life of hard work to rear a family. It seems to me that the warning on the cigarette packet could easily be changed to 'Smoking is a wealth hazard ', rather than a health hazard. 
So let us once and for all explode the myth that the Budget will give any relief whatsoever to the wage earner. The Government has not only discriminated against the wage earner. It has also plundered the private sector. It has shaken to the very roots the confidence of the private sector and has so systematically and callously destroyed this confidence that it will take even a responsible government some time to regenerate it. What steps did the Budget take to adopt the measures proposed by the Mathews Committee which would have brought $ 1,200m relief? It rejected the findings of the Committee and instead reduced company tax by a mere  2Vi  per cent from 45 per cent- a relief of some $120m. Even to the elementary student this is only 10 per cent of the amount proposed under this Committee's report. This is trifling relief even in view of the fall of $ 1 .3 billion in company income last year. So,  Sir, I  ask you: Does this display responsible government or any genuine attempt to inject confidence into the private sector? 
If this is not enough, consider the crude oil levy which is estimated to cost some $ 100m to the private industry. The Budget, in my opinion, has failed miserably to help to stabilise the economy of this country. There is only one way to bring back some sanity to this nation's economics and to the things that are important to the people of Australia and that will be by a change of Government, which we will see in the very near future. 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate what humanitarian assistance the Government intends to give to the people of East Timor? Secondly, does the Government intend to send a delegation to East Timor to assess the situation in that country at present? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the Aboriginal Loans Commission is currently out of funds? If the answer is yes, can the Minister tell the Senate when the Government will make funds available to this very important section of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is similar to that asked earlier this morning by  Senator Gietzelt.  It refers to Press reports that  Mr Jose  Ramos Horta, Foreign Affairs Secretary of the ruling Revolutionary Front for Independent East Timor- Fretilin- has claimed that there has been an invasion by Indonesian troops. Will the Minister press his Government to act in a more positive way by sending a team of observers to East Timor to assess the true situation in that country for the sake of those innocent people who must be suffering while this turmoil continues? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Press reports and the Minister's answer to a question yesterday that the Australian Government had given some $2m aid to the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, which is a communist government, what assurance has the Government that such aid will be distributed fairly and impartially to all the people of South Vietnam? Secondly, will the Government now give similar aid to the people of East Timor while the political turmoil continues and innocent people suffer in that country? 
I present the following petition from 141 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the  recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present a petition from 10 citizens of Australia praying that the Senate introduce and pass a Bill to replace the Constitution with a new Australian People's Constitution, the details of which are contained in this petition. As the petition is a very lengthy one, I do not ask that it be read by the  Clerk,  and, in view of the printing difficulties which would arise, I suggest that it be not incorporated in  Hansard. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: How many houses have been provided to Aborigines as a direct result of sit-ins in the offices of the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland? What is the total expenditure on the aforementioned houses by the Department? How many houses or properties were purchased? How many Aborigines have benefited as a direct result of these purchases? What responsible Aboriginal organisations will have the management and control of these properties? Why does the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs continue to accede to the demands of the radical element of the Aboriginal community when there are so many Aboriginal families in need of housing and direct assistance? Lastly, will the Minister consult his departmental head in Queensland to ensure that the responsible but unfortunate sections of the Aboriginal community which are in such grave need will be given as much consideration as are those who use radical and unorthodox means to achieve their needs? 

 -Mr President, I rise to support the Opposition's attitude to the Appropriation Bills, which is to defer them until such time as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Government are prepared to submit themselves to the will of the people; in other words, until they are prepared to face their masters, the electors of this great nation. One thing that I wish to make quite clear at the outset is that I have received some letters of criticism for my stand in this affair. The criticism has been that I am subservient to my Party. I wish to nail that for what it is- a falsehood. I am an Australian, and proudly so; I am an Aborigine, and fiercely proudly so; but I am a thinking Australian and a thinking Aborigine, and I am appalled at what has happened to my nation under this present Government. There are many things for which I believe this Government has to answer to the electors. It must face the people of this country and receive the support of the majority of the people. 
The cackles are coming from the other side of the chamber, and appropriately so. 

 - Senator McLaren apparently has not learnt the lesson. He is apparently not prepared to face his masters; I and all my colleagues on this side of the chamber are prepared to face our masters. We are not saying to the Government: 'You alone go to the people'. We are not saying to the members of the House of Representatives: 'You alone go to the people'. What we are saying is: 'Let us all go to the people'. Let the Prime Minister bring about a double dissolution so that we all go to the people and let them hand down their judgment on the performance of the Government and of the Opposition during the last 3 years'. 
There is, and has been, much said and much written concerning a constitutional crisis. Allow me to raise my voice alongside that of my Leader, Malcolm Fraser, when I state categorically that there is no constitutional crisis. It is quite clear and quite plain in the Constitution that the Senate has the right- it is given to it under that Constitution- to reject any Supply Bill, any money Bill or any Bill whatsoever. So let us have done with that humbug and hypocrisy that we are having a constitutional crisis at the moment; we are not. The crisis that we are having is the crisis concerned with the ineptitude and incompetence of a government that has been sitting on the Government benches for the last 3 years. 
I shall quote as other Opposition senators have done just recently. Let us look at the record. Let us examine the record to see what was said by the Prime Minister who now says that we do not have the power to do what we are about to do. He does not care about the irreparable damage that he will cause Australia. He is prepared to sacrifice the welfare of our nation at the altar of his ego. It must surely disturb all honourable senators- even those sitting on the Government benches because I am sure that they must have a guilty conscience- when we look back over what was said by the Prime Minister, which statement they supported.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I remind you and all honourable senators of what 

 Mr Whitlam said, and he has not repudiated it. He said: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. We intend to press our opposition by all available means on all related measures in both Houses. If the motion is defeated, we will vote against the Bills here and in the Senate. Our purpose is to destroy ... the Government which has sponsored it. 

 Mr Whitlam was speaking to a money Bill that was introduced in 1970 by the then Government. 
Perhaps the most damning of all statements from the Prime Minister appears in  Hansard  of 1 October 1970. He said: 
We all know that in British parliaments the tradition is that if a money Bill is defeated ... the government goes to the people to seek their endorsement of its policies. 
That is exactly what we are saying today and what we have been saying for the last 3 weeks.  Mr Whitlam  said that in 1 970. Surely the statement I am about to quote would not surprise some honourable senators opposite. On 4 November 1970 when the motion that the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) be read a third time was proposed by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, former  Senator Murphy,  as the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, is reported at page 2030  of Hansard  of that date as having said: 
I simply want to say that, in accordance with what we indicated earlier, we propose to vote against the third reading of this Appropriation Bill as an indication of our complete and utter rejection of the Budget. It is not necessary to say any more than that. 
I wonder how many honourable senators opposite recall that statement? 1 look across the chamber and seen  Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator Willesee, Senator Poyser, Senator Cameron  and  Senator Mulvihill  who were here when that statement was made. Fifteen Government senators who are here now were members of the Senate when that statement was made. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  What is your point of order? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You are speaking on the same point of order? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The practice seems to have grown up on both sides of the chamber, to my knowledge, to engage in a good deal of repetition. Points are made for one side and points are made for the other side. Whilst the point of order may fall broadly within the category of tedious repetition, I still do not think that it is of a nature that would cause me to call upon the honourable senator making his speech to desist from the practice. In the circumstances, without canvassing the point any further, I think that I would not uphold the point of order.  Senator Young,  you have asked for the withdrawal of some remarks? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTQuite frankly, I did not find them offensive. 

 Senator Young- I accept that the words probably were not said in an offensive way but they will read as though they were said offensively when they appear in the record. I ask that they be withdrawn.  (Senator Wright interjecting) 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Wright,  I do not think that there is any point in your intervening at this stage. We are trying to get this matter cleared up. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Wright,  you will not intervene when you like while I am in the Chair. I am trying to sort out a matter which has occurred between the 2 sides of the chamber. Your comment does not help the situation one little bit and I would ask you to desist while I am making this decision. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I will not speak to the point of order taken by the honourable senator on the other side about my speech being written in the Leader's office. The statements from which I am quoting are quite readily available in  Hansard.  If the honourable senator likes to look up  Hansard,  which I am sure he will not be doing because it would only prick his conscience, he will see how he voted on that particular occasion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I think we have disposed of th at particular point. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder,  Senator Wright. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Will you please resume your seat while I am addressing myself to  Senator Bonner? Senator Bonner  was on his feet addressing me. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I am addressing the Chair and the remarks that I wish to make now do not relate to any point of order. I will continue my speech on this particular subject. I still say that honourable senators on the other side of the chamber should hang their heads in shame when they come up with all this humbug and hypocrisy about voting against the Supply Bills. There are still fifteen of them sitting on the Government benches who were here in 1972 and who voted with the former  Senator Murphy,  now a Justice of the High Court, when he moved that motion and when he said those words. They were here and they voted with him. So let us have no more of this humbug and mischief that is going on at the moment about a constitutional crisis. There is no constitutional crisis. The only crisis is that, as I said earlier, the Government is not prepared to face the people of this country and let them pass their judgment on the Government's record. Let us look at the record of this Government. We have the worst depression of the last 30 years, with 400 000 people unemployed. This concerns me greatly because I come from the working ranks. I have been a labourer and a working man all my life. Thank God I have never been a member of the Labor Party, but I have been a labourer and worked with my hands all my life. I have a great concern for the 400 000 people who are unemployed because of the mismanagement of this Government. Look at the inflation rate, which is the highest in 40 years. 
It is running at 16 per cent, and the cackle from the other side of the chamber only strengthens my argument.  Senator 
McLaren knows that that is true and we all know that it is true. Let us look at the false statements that were made about the loans affair by 2 acting Prime Ministers,  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Connor.  These statements misled the Parliament, and led to their ultimate sacking by  Mr Whitlam.  But  Mr Whitlam,  the Prime Minister, should accept part of the blame. No one can tell me that the Prime Minister of a country would not have some knowledge of the things that two of his senior ministers were doing. He had knowledge of it, and on that score alone, because of his gross incompetence, he should resign and submit himself to the will of the people. The Government would have us believe that its policies are for the good of this nation. If that is the case, let it go to the people and let the people speak. Let the people decide whether the Government's policies are the best or not. The Government should not continue on its present course until the economy of this country is completely plundered and there is a depression the like of which we have never seen. 
I am quite sure that there are honourable senators here today who, like me, recall those black days of the 1930s. I lived through them. God forbid that any of my children or grandchildren should have to experience a repetition of those times- times of suffering, human misery and deprivation. Goodness me, with the way this Government is carrying on we are heading fast for that situation. They were times when once proud working men were reduced to shambling wrecks through no fault of their own, unable adequately to support their families, stripped of their pride and robbed of their dignity. Is that what we want to see? I think not. I want to see this Government face the people and let the people make the judgment, as we on this side of the chamber are prepared to let them do. We can look at a long list of scandals involving this Government: The Murphy-ASIO raids; the unethical attempt to manipulate Parliament by the Gair affair; the shocking impropriety of the sacking of the  Speaker, Mr Cope;  the Phillip Cairns affair; the Morosi affair; the Hayden Budget leak; the loans affair and so many other matters. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  I do not uphold the point of order. I think that  Senator Bonner  is quoting from copious notes, as we often say. Some notes are more copious than others, but I think the honourable senator is in order. 
If this is a speech from which I am reading then there is something wrong with my eyes. This happens to be a newspaper. 
You can have a look at the other ones. There they are. Have a look at them- copious notes. 
-That is right; that is a good idea.  Mr Deputy President,  I do not have a great deal more to say because I think the record speaks for itself without my going any further. Much has been said on this side of the chamber. Arguments have been put very strongly, very firmly and very wisely by other members of the Opposition. All I say in conclusion is that there is no constitutional crisis. I cannot stress that enough, and I want the people of Australia to know that we are not facing a constitutional crisis. The only crisis that we are likely to face will be caused because this Government is not prepared to go to the people. The Appropriation Bills will lie on the table and not be passed by this chamber until the Government is prepared to go to the people. If there is any suffering amongst the people of Australia, then the Government is responsible for that. It is the Government's responsibility because it is the Government. If it is prepared to submit itself to the people then we will certainly give very speedy passage to the Appropriation Bills. There will be no trouble at all. People will be paid and the money will flow. But it is up to the Government. Let the Government have the courage of its convictions and go with us to its masters, the people of Australia. 
I  present the following petition from. 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outStanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whoever is appropriate. I refer to the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. I ask: 1. Has the 27th instrument of ratification referred to in article 19 of the Convention been lodged with the Secretary-General of the United Nations? 2. If so, on what date was the 27th instrument lodged? 3. If not, how many have been lodged? 4. Has Australia lodged its instrument of ratification pursuant to section 7 of the Racial Discrimination Act? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that in the Kwitze's Museum at 78 Wellington Road, South Portland, approximately 13 Aboriginal skulls are being displayed and that the proprietor is charging people so much to go in and view the skulls? He has a notice in front of them stating where they come from. I ask the Minister whether he will make investigations into this matter to see what action can be taken to ensure that these skulls of Aboriginal people are returned to their natural burial grounds and are not displayed for the amusement of people. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Probably my 2 colleagues have covered most of the facts of the case. But I do want to say that my main concern is for the members of the Royal Australian Air Force who, in my opinion, have carried out responsibilities which have been far beyond the call of duty over the last 3 or 4 months during which we have had so much trouble in Queensland. I am concerned that a reflection could have been made upon these very worthy gentlemen who have been doing so much in Queensland and in other parts of Australia. I agree with both my colleagues that the media does have a responsibility. At the time, of course, our concern was for the people of Bundaberg and the devastation that had been caused. We wanted to get there as soon as possible and we tried to do that. Our time was limited because the aircraft had to return to Amberley and I believe that it was required for other jobs. Our time in Bundaberg was limited and we did whatever we could out of concern for the people and without intending to cause inconvenience to anyone. 
Before supporting the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Knight,  for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, I should like to extend my sincere congratulations to you,  Mr President,  on your attainment of the high position of  President  of the Senate. Although I have congratulated you in private,  Mr President,  I want it placed on record that I have done so. I assure you,  Sir, that  I am happy and proud to have the opportunity to serve under you. I hope that you will grace our chamber with your presence for a long time. At the same time, I should like to offer my congratulations to my colleague,  Senator DrakeBrockman,  on his appointment to the high office of the  Chairman  of Committees in this chamber. I extend to him my heartiest congratulations. I also give him my assurance that I will be proud to serve under him as  Chairman  of Committees. 
I also wish to congratulate those honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches. I hope that their service to the people of their respective states will be fruitful and long. I am sure that those honourable senators will make a worthwhile contribution to the debates in this chamber and for the welfare of the people they represent in their respective States. I listened with some sorrow to the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Walsh.  Venom and bitterness fell from his lips. I suppose that is understandable, considering that  Senator Walsh  now finds himself on the Opposition benches, whereas when he came into this chamber he was a member of the Government Party. However, I cannot excuse his bitterness because I believe it is unwarranted. Some of the harsh words that he spoke tonight were, in my opinion, certainly unwarranted. 
Much has been said both in this chamber and outside it about what has transpired during the last five or six months. I was one of those senators who campaigned extensively throughout my 
State. I heard all the criticism that was levelled at the then Opposition, of which I was a member. I heard about the constitutional crisis- as it was called by the then Government, the present Opposition. We were allegedly going through a constitutional crisis. The Constitution gives the lie to that. There was no constitutional crisis. The Constitution is quite plain and simple for all those who wish to look at it and understand it. The powers of the Senate are embodied in the Constitution. As to the events that took place and the actions taken by the Governor-General, I have the highest regard for him and the highest commendation for the steps taken by him. I believe that he acted in the way he should have acted and in the only way he could have acted. There was no constitutional crisis. What we had was a political crisis that was brought about by the absolute incompetence of the Government that was in power at that time. I believe that the bitterness which has been shown in the speeches of honourable members opposite and their actions during the opening of Parliament were shocking. 1 believe that the verdict of the people on 13 December certainly - 
The actions that were taken by the then Opposition, of which I was a member, were vindicated by the people of this nation on 13 December in an overwhelming fashion. 

 -If Senator Mulvihill takes note of the overwhelming numbers of Liberal Party and National Country Party members who are now in the House of Representatives as a result of the election held on 13 December, he will realise that the action taken by this Senate and by the other place has been vindicated by the people. 
The honourable senator who is interjecting certainly needs to look at the facts. I know that he is a numbers man. The numbers certainly came up in favour of the coalition parties. Consequently, today we hold the Government benches. 
I would like to raise a few matters that are of concern to me at present. One of them, of course, is very near and dear to my heart. It is a matter that has concerned me for a number of months now. My association with and concern for this particular matter probably go back a number of years. I hope that the Government will do something in support of the matter that I raise here this evening. First of all, I refer to a statement that appeared in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  this morning. The Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  of course, is the State paper in Queensland. I say that for the edification of honourable senators who perhaps do not know that we have a State paper. 
Thank you very much. The heading on this article is: 
Joh hits back. 
I do not suppose that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keeffe)  were in the chamber I would need to point out to him who Joh is. He happens to be the Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen. The article states that Joh Bjelke-Petersen criticised me for my statement on the Aurukun mining proposals. I believe that it is important that I read this article in order to be able to carry on with what I have to say in relation to the matter of the Aurukun people, who happen to be a community of Aboriginal people in the north of Queensland. At the present time they are very concerned about what is happening in and around their Aboriginal community. I believe that  Mr BjelkePetersen  is referring to me in the article. He is reported as saying: 
He doesn't know his facts. 
How many spokesmen are there for the Aurukun people, he said. 
That is  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen.  Mr BjelkePetersen  criticised what he termed as an army of self appointed spokesmen for the Aurukun Aborigines. If the Premier of Queensland is referring to me in that part of his statement, I say to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  that he should have a look at the electoral figures in Queensland because I am not a self appointed spokesman for the Aboriginal people of* Queensland. On 13 December last year I was elected as a senator for Queensland by almost 600 000 people. Consequently, the 700 people on the Aboriginal community at Aurukun are my constituents. Therefore, I am speaking on behalf of some of my constituents in Queensland and I intend to support and to fight for the Aboriginal people in the community of Aurukun with everything that I have. Maybe some people will say I do not have much, but while I am a member of this Senate, having been sent here by approximately 600 000 Queenslanders, I intend to support and to work for the people of Aurukun just as I will be happy and proud to work for the rest of the people in Queensland on any occasion that I am quite sure will arise. Such occasions have arisen since I came to this Senate. 

 Senator Colston- You represent more Queenslanders than  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  does. 
I am grateful for the interjections from both honourable senators on the other side of the chamber.  Senator Mulvihill  visited Queensland and naturally, because he supports many of the things which I support in relation to underprivileged people and those who need to be assisted in many ways, he clashed with one of the people in a place called Normanton in Queensland.  Senator Colston  said that I have more supporters in Queensland than the Queensland Premier. I do not know whether I would go so far as to say that, but I think 600 000 is quite a substantial number of people. 
I wish to tell the Senate something about a mining venture which has been proposed and about what I understand is called the Aurukun Mining Agreement Bill that was passed through the Queensland Parliament. When 1 have had the opportunity later in my speech to refer to some of the statements made by some of the Aboriginal people of Aurukun honourable senators will agree with me that the mining venture is one of the worst things that has ever happened to and been perpetrated against a group of people anywhere in Australia by a State government. People in Queensland may say that those are harsh words. I say that they are harsh words. I mean them to be because the treatment of the people of Aurukun by the Queensland Government has been harsh. Some time ago, I think about 1968, a mining consortium discovered that there was bauxite in the Aurukun Aboriginal reserve. Discussions took place between the Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement Department of the Queensland State Government, the Presbyterian Church of Queensland, which until that time was responsible for the administration of the Aurukun mission, and the Aboriginal councillors of the community at Aurukun. 
It was agreed by all parties concerned that the mining consortium should have the right to prospect in the reserve lands of the Aurukun Aboriginal community. This agreement was reached by the people and it was also agreed at that time that should the mining consortium find that the deposits of bauxite in that area were economically viable and could be mined then the mining consortium, the Queensland Government, the Presbyterian Church and the Aboriginal people would again sit and talk about what should happen from thereon. They would discuss how the mining would go on, what agreement would be reached between the groups of people concerned, what benefits would be derived by the Aboriginal people, what protection would be afforded the way of life of the Aboriginal community and everything else. 
The prospecting went on and bauxite was discovered there in quantities and of a value which would make it a viable economic proposition for the mining company to go ahead. Then what happened? After talking to the Aboriginal people and the Church authorities it is my understanding that there were negotiations between the State Government and the mining consortium. Following the discussions and whatever took place during that meeting, the Queensland Government introduced a Bill which I understand was called the Aurukun Mining Agreement Bill. The first time that the Aboriginal people and the community of Aurukun knew of this Bill was when they read about it in the  Courier-Mail  some days after it was presented in the Queensland Parliament. They became very concerned about it. They became very, very unhappy and almost desperate because this mining Bill had been introduced in the State Parliament by the Queensland Government without this second meeting and meaningful negotiations with the Aboriginal people. They sent a number of telegrams to the Queensland Premier and members of State Parliament asking that the Bill be held up until the Presbyterian Church authorities, the Aboriginal councillors and the Aboriginal community had a chance to look at it, to study it, to talk about it and to know what it meant. They were completely ignored by the Queensland Government. 
It has been stated by the Premier of Queensland and by the Minister for Aboriginal Advancement in Queensland that there had been negotiations with the Aboriginal people. I say that that is not correct. On 4 separate occasions I visited the community of Aurukun and spoke to the Aboriginal people. I admit that on one of those occasions I was there wholly and solely for electoral purposes. I was there canvassing for votes and did not talk about the mining venture but on the other 3 occasions I did speak to the Aboriginal people. Other people also visited and talked to the Aboriginal people. I have on my desk this evening transcripts of discussions that took place between the members of the church, the Aboriginal people and the Aboriginal communities' legal adviser,  Mr Purcell.  A tape recording of the discussions was taken and a transcript of that tape recording was typed. I have a number of these transcripts. 
I think twenty or thirty of the Aboriginal people in that community addressed thai meeting in their own simple, unsophisticated way. One of those people was Ralph Peinkinna. One of the things that saddens me is the names that have been given to many members of my race. In this instance the name is Peinkinna. Some white fellow came along and said: 'We will call him Peinkinna'. So that became the surname of a whole family tree. I do not know whether many honourable senators know what a piccanniny is. It is a little black child. This became the surname of an Aboriginal family and the family name down through the years. This man would have an Aboriginal name, but no one gives 2 hoots about that. Because of some white man, he was called Ralph Peinkinna. Ralph Peinkinna, in his own simple, unsophisticated way, addressed this meeting. He was talking to Sam and Bruce who are two of the church people. He said: 
The trouble, Sam and Bruce, is that we were disappointed that day last week, seeing that the heads of the Parliament didn't come and have a talk with the councillors or the community. That was a great shock for us. We don't blame the company. We know quite well that we came into agreement with  Tippererary  to work here. 
This is referring to prospecting. He continued: 
The main reason is that the company, whatever it may bc, Tipperary or I don't know what company, if it could come and talk with the council and with the community everything would run smooth. That was the real reason we got tangled up. We know Europeans keep their promises. As Aborigines we have to keep our promises like the Europeans. 
If I want to see a person I have to go and talk with him so that he can listen for himself. In that way we talk to a person, not behind where we can steal or nobody can see us. That means that the front door is locked and the behind door is open. Not that we want to use weapons or spears to spear Government, but we can talk with our mouth. Today we arc a new generation, not like our old grandfathers who used to kill a person, a long time ago. We are not uncivilised people. We know the light. Missionaries brought the light. We understand these problems. I wouldn't talk about a person when he is away, when he don't know what is going on behind. That is the same reason we were talking with those heads. If the Parliament big boss would come and talk with us everything would be okay. That is why we said ' No mining'. This is the problem today. They do not come and face us and talk with the community. Even in a tall story wc cannot make up, otherwise you put yourself in trouble- you put yourself in a lot of mess. All things we must see or hear with our own lips, then we can prove a thing. But by picking up and hearing from somebody else, that is not the answer. That is correct? Only the thing I can see with my 2 physical eyes, and hear with my own ears, then I can prove a thing. Seeing that it has been unfair for us by not coming across with the community or certainly with the council. That is the important thing I have to say. Thank you very much. 
That was from a simple, unsophisticated Aborigine who lives on a community. All that he and his fellow Aborigines are asking is that the Government and the mining corporation, consortium or what have you, sit and talk with them. These people are not unintelligent. They are intelligent human beings who for generations have lived on this land. The Queensland Government set it aside as an Aboriginal reserve. 
I am supporting the Aboriginal people of Aurukun. If you listen for a few moments you might learn something from an Aborigine. These people have lived on this community for some 30 000 years, as the learned anthropologists tell us. They were told that this is their land. Many of them have said to me that they have embraced the Christian faith. They have listened to the missionaries. They believe now that no one- white, black or brindle; no government, State or Federal- gave them this land. It was given to them by God Almighty. It is their land. Unfortunately, because valuable minerals are found everybody forgets land rights. Land rights are a good thing only while the land has not value to white men, whether it is for mining, agriculture or anything else. The Labor Party, the Country Party, the Liberal Party all have in their policies that they support land rights. They support land rights only while the land has no value. 
That is not true, and you know it as well as I do. I am not concerned at this point in the debate with anything but land rights, the land and the mining that will take place at Aurukun. For the purposes of this debate, that is my only concern. There has been no real, true and meaningful discussion with the Aboriginal people of Aurukun. They are conscious of the fact that because there are valuable minerals in this land the white man will get it one way or the other. They are resigned to that. They would certainly prefer no mining whatsoever. They are realistic in their understanding that mining will take place. All they are asking for, and all I am asking for, is that there be some intervention by the Federal Government. 
There is always a lot of noise from the opposite side of the chamber from the pseudo experts on Aboriginal affairs, those who know everything, those who would not be able to do a jolly thing because, like me, they belong to a party. When they were in government they could not do all the things they wanted to do, any more than I can do all the things I want to do. They were members of a team. But that does not alter the fact - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to a recent newspaper report indicating that 4 recently qualified Aboriginal teachers had been unable to obtain teaching employment. Can the Minister give the Senate any information on this matter? If not, will he have an investigation made at the earliest possible time? 
Last evening before the Senate adjourned I was bringing to the attention of the Senate matters pertaining to the Aboriginal community known as Aurukun and to its concern regarding the mining venture which has been proposed in a Bill presented to the Queensland Parliament. Whilst speaking on this matter last evening I received some interjections from the other side of the chamber. I do not know that the interjections were terribly helpful to the people of Aurukun, nor do I feel that they were terribly helpful to me. So I shall endeavour during the rest of my remarks to ignore the inane interjections that one usually hears when talking on very important matters in this chamber. As I was saying last evening, I have received from some quarters criticism that I have been interfering or, supposedly, stirring the Aboriginal people in relation to this mining venture at Aurukun. I should like to read a letter that was written to me by the members of the Aboriginal Council at Aurukun dated 8 December 1975. The letter was addressed to  Senator N.  Bonner, Parliament House, Canberra, and stated: 
Dear  Sir, 
We are not happy about plans for mining at Aurukun. We are insulted because we have not been spoken to first. 
We want you to come to Aurukun for at least a couple of days and explain things to us and listen to what we have to say. We want you to come with the other people who are talking about mining Aurukun. We have written to them as well. Please tell us soon when you can come. 
That letter was signed by 4 Aboriginal councillors at Aurukun. I answered the letter from my office in Brisbane by telegram addressed to the  Chairman  and Councillors of the Aurukun Aboriginal Community, via Thursday Island. The message read: 
Your letter received and understood. I give you my solemn promise that I will attend meeting as proposed at Aurukun as soon as arranged by your Councillors. Please telegram arrangements my home address 3 Short Street, Ipswich, directly they are finalised. I am gravely concerned and am insisting that fellow Aborigines Aurukun be totally consulted re proposed bauxite mining project. Best wishes and kind regards . . . Neville T. Bonner,  Senator for  Queensland. 
So, as to the criticism that I am a self-appointed spokesman, certainly I am acting on behalf of my constituents, who contacted me and asked me to come to their community to discuss these matters with them. 
Having received that message and answered it, I then contacted the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Honourable Ian Viner, and invited him to come to Queensland because I was concerned about what was happening in relation to the mining venture at Aurukun. The Minister replied to me and drew up an itinerary for a visit. I accompanied him through Queensland and we made Aurukun one of the main points on the itinerary. The Minister, his secretary, the Queensland Director of Aboriginal Affairs and I stayed overnight at Aurukun. I understand from the people there and from the members of the Presbyterian Church that it was the first time in history that a Minister, either State or Federal, had ever spent a night and a day on the Aurukun Aboriginal Reserve or on any of the isolated reserves in Queensland. I want to pay tribute to the Minister because he took the time to do that. In my opinion and in the opinion of many of the people in Queensland, he had one of the longest, most informative and most fruitful meetings with a group of Aboriginal people that it has ever been my pleasure to attend. We sat under the trees at the Aurukun Mission surrounded by some 500 or 600 Aboriginal people- men, women and children. The meeting went for something like 3% hours, during which time the people spoke to the Minister and told him, as they had told me on other occasions, of their concern about what is going to happen to their community. They spoke of the lack, of consultation and the lack of concern for them that has been apparent in other quarters. 
Other criticisms need to be answered, and in that regard I wish to refer to the editorial which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  on 27 January 1976. It stated: 
Queensland Young Liberals, after hearing  Senator Neville  Bonner, have joined the growing list of people and organisations dissatisfied with the State Government s treatment of Aurukun Aborigines over bauxite mining in the area. 
Others include the Presbyterian Church of Australia, the Aboriginal and Islander Catholic Council, the State Opposition, the Australian Conservation Council, Dean George,  Mr F.  G. Brennan Q.C., and  Mr Frank  Purcell, of Melbourne, the Aurukun people's legal adviser (and a Liberal Federal election candidate). 
These organisations and people are not irresponsible. Most can speak with some authority on the matter. The State Government should pause before implementing its mining legislation and consult the Aborigines and their representatives about the future of the Aurukun reserve. 
So I am not alone in speaking on these matters. I am not alone in trying to bring justice to people who are crying out for assistance and guidance on this matter. I also have with me, and I think it is worth mentioning at this point of time, a newspaper article indicating that 300 Aurukun Aborigines have petitioned the Queensland Parliament. The article states: 
A petition signed by 300 adults from the Aurukun Mission, opposing any mining at Aurukun, will be presented to the  Speaker  of State Parliament  (Mr Houghton). 
The Rev. J. R. Sweet, director of the Presbyterian Church's Aboriginal and Overseas Mission section, said last night almost all adults at Aurukun must have signed the petition. 
It is important that these matters be brought to the attention not only of my colleagues here in the Senate but also, through them, of the people of Australia. What is happening to the people of Aurukun is nothing short of a shoddy deal. 
Let us consider what the people are asking for. They are asking for simple things. They are not asking for a whole range of things that will break the rnining company or take money out of the coffers of the State Government. All they are asking for is true, meaningful consultation about what the project is going to mean to the people of Aurukun. What is it going to mean to them in a number of ways? If the mining goes on and a town is built in close proximity to the Aboriginal community of Aurukun and there is a work force of some 1 500 people, who I imagine in a mining venture of this kind would be mostly males, what protection is going to be given to the Aboriginal community? There may be some smiles and smirks when I ask about protection; but I am 53 years of age and I have been around the ridges. I have worked with men on all types of labouring work and I am conscious that when a number of men live in an isolated area such as this one they tend to wander. The concern of the Aboriginal people in this community is whether the mining workers are going to wander into the community. If that does happen, what will be the results and what authority will the people of the community have to deal with it? 
I am not saying that all miners are unscrupulous, but in any community there is always an element of unscrupulous people. If there are some of these unscrupulous men and they go on to the Aboriginal community, which is a group of 700 unsophisticated simple-living people, with flagons of wine and with certain thoughts in their minds and they do take advantage of some of the young men and perhaps some of the young women, what protection are the Aboriginal people going to have from that kind of behaviour? No one has told them what they can do about it. There is the community council, which has a certain amount of authority delegated to it by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs through the Director. The community has its own Aboriginal police force; but what authority has it got, except over its own people in the community? If this sort of behaviour occurred and the police arrested one or two men and put them in their local gaol and the councillors sat in judgment on them, would that judgment carry weight? Would it be recognised by the white law, or would someone be able to say: 'No, you cannot do that. He is a white man. You cannot put him in your gaol. You can put your own people in your gaol, but you cannot put him in. We will let him go. He is a white man. He comes from the mining town'? These are some of the matters that are raised. 
In relation to employment, the Second Schedule to the Queensland legislation provides that the mining company will employ 'employable Aborigines' from the Aurukun community. What is an 'employable Aborigine'? What is an employable person'? That is not defined at all. I look at it this way: If the employment officer from the mining company visited the community with thoughts of employing some Aborigines, he might say: 'Look, councillors, I want 3 bulldozer drivers, 3 endloader drivers, 2 mechanics, and 1 plumber'. The councillors would look at him blankly and say: 'We have never driven bulldozers. Nobody has taught us how to drive bulldozers. What do you mean "drive a bulldozer"?' The employment officer would go away, feeling good, and report to the management: 'I went to the Aurukun community. I offered to employ 12 blokes. They have no employable Aborigines'. So, the responsibility of that company, according to the Act, has been carried out. 
-That is true. He can. But if he went to the Aboriginal community and said: I want 3 stockmen, 4 men to put up a fence, and another 2 men to dig ditches, and to use a shovel', he will get them; there will be no trouble about that. Again, his responsibilities will have been carried out. But to what benefit of the Aboriginal people is this? 
The Aboriginal councillors and the Aboriginal community are saying that these are the things that they want to talk about. They want some kind of training schemes to be established for their young men. They have pointed out to us that dozens of young men from the age of 17 years to 25 years are strong and intelligent but unfortunately are untrained for these fields of employment. They ask: 'What about them? You are going to employ 1500 people, but how many Aborigines will you employ? What are you going to do for them?' 
Another point that they have raised is that, according to the legislation, the Aboriginal people of Queensland will receive 3 per cent of the net profits from this mining venture. I am told that it will be at least 3 years before there will be any profits whatsoever. But I have talked to other people around the traps who are more conversant with and know a little more about the mining industry. They said to me: 'Look, when you talk about net profits of a company like this, it could be 30 years before you get a razoo '. 
Again, the Aboriginal people are saying: 'Why should it be 3 per cent of the net profits? Why cannot we be paid on a royalty basis?' Other people have said to me: 'You cannot do that; you would be setting a precedent'. But this is not so at all because royalties are paid. The Queensland Government will certainly receive its royalties. But not the Aborigines, not the original owners; they are not entitled to royalties, I am told. They can get only 3 per cent of the net profits, perhaps after 3 years. But according to this Bill and according to the Queensland Government, that 3. per cent profit will not go to the Aurukun people. It is to go into a welfare fund. They will get a percentage of that 3 per cent of the net profits. 
There may be some who wonder why I have brought this matter up. I want this matter aired in this Federal Parliament and before the Senate because I believe that the Aurukun people, to use a common Australian expression, have been sold a pup. I, for one, will continue to press in every way that I can and in any way that I can for some assistance for these people and to see that the Aboriginal people of Aurukun at least are given justice in their claims in relation to this mining venture. 
I have spoken at length on this matter because I have lived with it now for some six or eight months. I have talked with the people. I have listened to the people. I want to see that something is done. The Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, has told me that he is sympathetic about the problems faced by the people of Aurukun. I feel quite confident that he will be taking steps himself to do something about this matter. 
I wish to speak about another matter today. I refer to the problems that are now being faced in my State of Queensland by the Queensland people. Later in the year, these problems will become worse. I have had consultations on this matter and also a letter seeking my support from the office of the Queensland Minister for local Government and Main Roads, the honourable Russ Hinze. He will be pressing for assistance from the Federal Government, or for further assistance, in relation to the devastation that has been caused to roads in many areas of Queensland. 
For the benefit of some people from southern States who do not know much about Queensland, I should point out that it is a big State. It is a State with perhaps the greatest degree of decentralisation of any Australian State. I say that with some pride. It takes almost 2 hours flying in a DC9 aircraft to travel from Brisbane to Cairns and one is not at the top of Queensland even then. It takes some 2 hours to fly, again in a DC9, from Brisbane to Mt Isa, and one is still not at the border. Queensland is quite a big State. 
Dealing with decentralisation, I point out that at .the eastern seaboard one can start from Brisbane and travel through Nambour, Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone, Rockhampton, Proserpine, Bowen, Townsville, Ingham, Tully, Innisfail and then arrive at Cairns. Honourable senators will realise from what I have said what I mean when speaking about decentralisation. That is the situation on the eastern seaboard where sugar, secondary industry, beef, and grain are the major industries. 
I will come to that. If we look at central western Queensland we see Monto, Theodore, Emerald, Springsure, Barcaldine, Longreach, Winton, Blackwater and Moura. Again, that illustrates the degree of decentralisation in Queensland. That area produces beef, wool, grain and minerals. Turning to the north-western parts of Queensland one can travel from Mt Isa through Cloncurry, Hughenden, Normanton, and Georgetown and one will find the production of minerals, coal and the like, sheep, wool, beef and, yes, around Normanton fish and prawns. There are a few prawns around here too, but they are of a different type. From Brisbane we go out to south western Queensland, passing through Ipswich and Toowoomba to Warwick, Stanthorpe, Inglewood, Goondiwindi, Oakey, Dalby, Cunnamulla, and Charleville. In this area we find secondary industry, grain growing, sheep, beef and fruit. So my claim that Queensland is one of the most decentralised States in the Commonwealth is not far wrong. 
What concerns us at the moment is that we live in a State where we are subjected to torrential rains during the monsoon season. We are subjected to a cyclonic season. We have had cyclones in Townsville and down to Bundaberg more recently. There has been flooding in the western parts of Queensland at Goondiwindi, Inglewood, Warwick, Stanthorpe, Cunnamulla and other places. Honourable senators can understand the kinds of things that happen to our roads and bridges during these times of natural disasters. We suffer from rain, storms, cyclones and what have you. I know that the Minister, the Honourable Russ Hinze, will be seeking extra finance from the Federal Government to assist these areas of Queensland. 
Many of our shire councils will be in terrible financial difficulties in bringing their roads back to at least a trafficable condition. I had a look at some of the devastation which was caused to some of the bridges. The one at Warwick, all that was left standing was the concrete structure and both ends. Everything for at least a quarter of a mile was completely washed out. I would say that that local government authority would be looking for $50,000 or $60,000 to repair that one bridge, let alone all the other small culverts, bridges, potholes and washouts which have occurred on the hundreds of miles of road within that shire. 
-No, it probably would be the responsibility for the Department of Main Roads. But there are many roads which would be a municipal responsibility, it is these roads which are concerning me at the moment. The bridge comes under the responsibility of the Department of Main Roads but the people of Warwick who use it want it fixed as quickly as that can possibly be done. Naturally, the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads in Queensland is concerned. I know that. He told me in his letter that he will be seeking extra financial help for Queensland. I know that a lot of assistance is being asked for by my State and by New South Wales because of the devastation caused by the recent floods and heavy rains in those areas. I know that the Federal Government has to do something about the economy. I know that there will be some cutbacks. There will have to be some suffering. But I make a plea on behalf of my State and on behalf of the Minister: When the Minister makes his approach please give him a sympathetic hearing in support of our programs for Queensland. 
Will the Minister for Science reconsider the question asked by my colleague,  Senator Wood,  on 19 February concerning cyclone warnings? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of having cyclone warnings refer to miles and miles per hour as well as metric distances and speeds? I hope that the Minister will take this question very seriously because at the moment a cyclone travelling down the east coast of Queensland could be of danger to many people. A number of elderly people in Queensland do not yet understand the metric system and the broadcasting of warnings as I have suggested would save them a lot of undue stress. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen a report that thousands of sugar cane farmers in Queensland will lose as much as 90c in the dollar in taxation this year following a bumper crop and a lift in world market prices? Will the Minister endeavour to overcome the inequities and iniquities that result from a tax scheme that was introduced initially to assist borderline primary producers but which has taken no account of Labor-inspired inflation or of the apparent upturn in world sugar prices? 
I present the following petition from 5727 electors of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned electors of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That the three service cadet forces have great value in the development of the youth of Australia. 
That the disbanding of the cadet forces will disperse accumulated expertise and interest of those involved, and in some cases negate the efforts of many people over many years. 
Your petitioners therefore humble pray that the Government will reconsider its decision and that the Government will reinstate the cadet forces. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security explain to the Senate why the term 'given name' is used on Medibank forms and not 'Christian name '? 
I am delighted to be able to take this opportunity to raise a matter again this evening during the debate on the first reading of this Bill as it gives me a great deal of latitude. I can speak on matters other than those pertaining to the Bill. Honourable senators will be aware that during the Address-in-Reply debate I brought to the attention of the Senate, and hence of the Australian people, a matter which has concerned me and many other Queensland people for some considerable time; that is, the Aurukun Associates Agreement Bill which was introduced by the Queensland Government some time ago. As I said at that time- I reiterate it this evening- I believe that the Aboriginal people of Aurukun were given a raw deal. Since then in the Parliament of Queensland another Bill, called the Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act Amendment Bill, has been introduced. A number of people made contributions during the debate on that Bill. Some strayed a little from the subject matter of the Bill and took time out to refer to the Aurukun Associates Agreement Bill. They made some rather caustic comments concerning my contribution in the Senate during the Address-in-Reply debate. 
If  Senator Mulvihill  will bear with me he will hear what I have to say concerning that 'honourable gentleman'- in inverted commas- later in my address. One of the members of the Legislative Assembly who spoke on the Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act Amendment Bill and who referred to the 
Aurukun Associates Agreement Bill was none other than the Aboriginal member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly,  Mr Deeral.  All I can say in relation to that gentleman's contribution is: 'My brother, where were you when they crucified our race?' I think it is sufficient to say that much at this stage of the debate. . 
Contributions were made by quite a number of the members of the Queensland Legislative Assembly during the debate on the Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act Amendment Bill. I shall quote from the debate passages in relation to what some of them had to say, particularly concerning myself. I turn to page 2624 of the Queensland  Hansard  of 9 March 1976 which records the debate on the Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act Amendment Bill. I refer to a contribution made by a gentleman who presumes to be the representative of Townsville South. Before I read from  Hansard  what he had to say, let me say that this gentleman reminds me of a conversation I had many years ago outside Hughenden with a stockman friend of mine, Nickelpenny. He was the Crown ranger at a place called Pentland in Queensland. He had a camp horse, perhaps one of the best camp horses over which I have ever had the opportunity of throwing a leg. I asked him about the breeding of this particular horse and he said to me: 'It is out of a scrubber by something off the common'. And that reminds me of the person who claims to be the honourable member for Townsville South. He had this to say: 
I throw out a challenge to  Senator Bonner,  who is alleged to be a Queensland  Senator. I  have yet to hear  Senator Bonner  say anything that could not be truthfully construed as a speech on behalf of Black Power. 
That is what the 'gentleman' had to say about me in  Hansard.  I would like to draw to the attention of the Senate and perhaps to the attention of that 'gentleman' a book of which I was a coauthor, entitled  Black Power in Australia,  published by Heinemann Press in the On Trial series. In the introduction to the book the following appears: 
The first point at issue in this debate is the meaning of Black Power.  Senator Bonner  sees 2 kinds of Black Power: One which says, 'Be proud of your race . . . help yourself in the white man's environment and beat him at his own game' - 
I am not alone in that belief- 
. which he supports, and one which advocates the violent overthrow of the white system, which he rejects. 
Further on in the book at page 33, when writing about Black Power and condemning it I had this to say: 
My brief is to write against the concept of 'Black Power'. Now there are at least 2 types of 'Black Power'. There is the type which says 'be proud of your race, you are as good as the next person, get out and help yourself in the white man 's environment and beat him at his own game'. This is what 1 see as 'good Black Power', for, until my fellow Aborigines gain the confidence and pride which is rightfully theirs, they will be at a permanent disadvantage in the world they now find themselves. 
On the other hand there is what I term 'bad Black Power'. This is a philosophy with which 1 will have no truck. Its adherents claim that the present system will not cater for Aborigines, that it never will represent Aborigines and that Aborigines will continue to lack political power until the present system ' is removed, if necessary by violent means. 
I have condemned this kind of Black Power. I have never advocated that kind of black power. So  Mr Tom  Aikens, who claims to represent Townsville South, is totally wrong in saying that either in this Parliament or anywhere in Queensland I have advocated Black Power of the violent and nasty type. 
-He took the opportunity of using the forum of his own Parliament, under parliamentary privilege, to say these things about me. If he had said outside the Parliament some of the things which I will read from the  Hansard  I would have slapped a writ on him so quickly that it would have singed his hair. I will quote  Mr Aitkens-  again I use the words ' Mister' and 'gentleman' in inverted commas- from page 2625 of Hansard of 9 March 1976. 
I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island; and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by reminding the Minister that on 23 March I asked her to explain to the Senate why the term 'given name' is used on Medibank forms and not  Christian name '. In her reply the Minister said: 
. there are within Australia people who would not recognise the term ' Christian name '. 
Whilst some people could be offended by that term, other people like myself who are professing Christians would be offended if they were asked to use the term 'given name' rather that Christian name'. Therefore I ask the Minister whether she will have a look at the proposition that on cards or forms that have to be filled in the term 'Christian names/given names' is used so that no one will be offended. 
I am quite sure that the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be aware of the unhappy circumstances which have over a number of years surrounded the issue of Truganini and her remains. Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Government has finally decided that Truganini 's remains shall be cremated and scattered over certain waters of Tasmania? Will the Minister contact the Tasmanian Government to ensure that Aboriginal organisations and interested Aborigines will be notified so that they may be present if they so desire when this takes place? 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned at the announced decision by the Australian Government to reduce the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote by $2 1 m, and by the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
We your petitioners do therefore humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
as a matter of urgency, reverse the decision to cut the 1975-76 Overseas Development Assistance vote, so as to ensure that the full amount appropriated by Parliament for Overseas Development Assistance is spent this financial year to meet the pressing needs of those in the developing countries; 
reaffirm Australia 's commitment of Overseas Development Assistance being a minimum of 0.7 per cent of GNP, and 
establish a fully independent statutory authority to administer Australia's official Overseas Development Assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is today being celebrated as World Health Day, the theme being 'Foresight Prevents Blindness'? What is the Government doing to help overcome blindness and trachoma among the Aboriginal people who are perhaps some of the greatest sufferers from blindness in Australia? Further, will the Government consider using the services of  Dr Archie  Kalokerinos in any program to counter blindness in the Aboriginal community? 

 - Mr President, I was not aware that my colleague on the other side of the chamber was going to bring this matter before the Senate tonight. Consequently I have been caught flatfooted. I had the opportunity of visiting East Timor last year with  Senator Gietzelt  and  Mr Fry.  I believe Australia has been found wanting in relation to the problems that face the people of East Timor. When I visited that place I spoke with many people and I came away with a very saddened heart at the part Australia had played, or had not played, during the turmoil that was taking place at that time. I had a distinct feeling during my visit that many of the people there identified more with me than they identified with my colleagues. Perhaps that was because of pigmentation of skin. They confided in me many things; they confided in me many of their problems. They asked me to come back to Australia and tell the Australian people of their feelings and what they expected Australia to do in relation to the problems that they were facing at that time. On my return to Australia I endeavoured to communicate with the then Prime Minister to convey to him the feelings of the people of East Timor and to inform him what they were seeking from the Australian people. What they were seeking was simple and perhaps could have averted a lot of the bloodshed that has occurred since the visit of the 3 members of the Australian Parliament, namely,  Senator Gietzelt, Mr Ken  Fry and me. Unfortunately, my endeavours to meet with the Prime Minister at that time met with rebuff. Whether that was warranted by the then Prime Minister I am not prepared to canvass at this time. I also endeavoured to convince the then shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs but he likewise, I feel, rebuffed my efforts to convey to him the true situation in East Timor. 
I believe that both the then Government and perhaps the present Government should equally share the blame for what has happened in East Timor. Had Australia acted then and acceded to the requests that were transmitted through the 3 Australians who visited East Timor, I believe that a lot of the problems that the East Timorese people are facing now could well have been averted. What was put to me by both the then  President,  or the man who claimed to be  President,  and what in our way of speaking might be termed his executive was that they had a feeling very deep towards Australia, and that there was a need for humanitarian aid in the form of food, medical supplies, mechanical equipment and such things. I became separated from my 2 colleagues, as  Senator Gietzelt  could tell the Senate, and I spoke with these people for some time. I believe that they identified with me because of my pigmentation of skin. I was a coloured man and came from Australia. They were, perhaps, more prepared to spell out their true feelings to me as they were not to members of the delegation who were not of the same colour as they. 
They said to me: 'We would ask you, Neville, to go back to Australia and tell the Australian people of the turmoil that is going on in East Timor. And we would ask you to tell the Australian people that we need this kind of assistance.' At that time East Timor was in turmoil. There was fighting and killing and a kind of a war going on. I said: 'Well, look, if I could go back to Australia and convince the Australian people that you needed this kind of assistance and the Australian people agreed and were prepared to give this kind of assistance, how can we, as Australians, be convinced that you will give this kind of aid to all the people of East Timor?' Now the members of the Fretilin movement to whom I was talking- Jose Horta and the  President  and the various members of the executive council as it were- said to me: 'Well, look,  Senator Bonner  - 
-'Well look, Neville, we are not asking you to send this to East Timor and give to us as a Fretilin movement. You send it up and send Australian people here whether they be Red Cross or some non-political organisation and come and distribute this humanitarian aid yourselves. We do not want the responsibility because we may be inclined to give it to those who support us. But you send Australian people and distribute the humanitarian aid impartially throughout East Timor. ' 
To me, that seemed a reasonable kind of a request. They said: 'Look, Neville, on top of that, send a team of Australian people. We do not care whether they are members of Parliament, whether they are members of a church organisation, whether they are members of a charitable organisation or whoever they might be; send them up here to look at the whole thing themselves and ascertain the situation for the peace of mind or whatever of the Australian people so that there will be impartial observation of what is happening in East Timor.' I do not think that we could ask for anything fairer than that. They wanted Australia to send this aid to be distributed by Australians impartially throughout the whole of East Timor. They wanted Australian people to go to East Timor, to observe and to talk to all the East Timorese people to ascertain for Australia the true situation in East Timor. 
I came back with that kind of information and I am sure that Arthur Gietzelt and Ken Fry came back with the same kind of information. But we could not stir the Australian people, the Australian Government or the Australian Opposition into listening to us. We know what transpired. 
We have failed the East Timorese people. We have failed as Australians. One of the saddest things that I have ever witnessed in my whole life and which I will never forget happened during this time that I was in East Timor when young Jose took me around on my own as an Australian- as a member of Parliament. I think most of all, I was able to identify with the people. I was able to meet a lot of East Timorese people and in particular old men of  60  to  70  years of age. I could not understand their langauge- more is the pity- but when young Jose told them who I was and where I came from they embraced me. These elderly men said: 'You from Australia. We glad you come. Our problems are all over. Australia will come and help us. We remember that we fought alongside Australians during the war against Japan. We, the members of this community, gave our lives to ensure that Australians were able to return to Australian shores and fight again.' The East Timorese sacrificed lives to ensure that Australians came back to the Australian shores to fight and to preserve the things that we want to preserve. In their hour of need where were we Australians? The East Timorese were prepared to sacrifice their lives, the most precious thing that any human being can have, so that the Australians could return to Australia and fight and preserve those things that we as Australians enjoy today. 
I believe that we as Australians have failed the East Timorese people dismally. From here on I do not know what the answer is. I would be a fool to be so presumptious as to try to say what I believe is the answer in East Timor. I do know this, and I say it with great humility: We as Australians have failed those who were our allies during our greatest crisis. I believe that all of us, both the previous Government and those who were then in Opposition and who have since become the Government, should hang our heads in shame. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Can he inform the Senate what has happened to the photographs of the former Prime Minister, which were quite large and, I am sure, expensive? Have they been placed in the archives in the hope that they will reach antique value so that we can recoup the amount of money spent on their production? 
I am delighted to hear  Senator Keeffe  express such a wish, although I would prefer the word 'Aborigines' to 'Aboriginals'. I want to assure him that his motion expresses my wish and the wish of my colleagues in this chamber as well. I want to assure him also that we certainly will be not only keeping services at not less than the standard established by the previous Government but also improving many of the services to Aboriginal and Island communities. This is clearly spelt out in the Liberal Party policy and has been spoken about on many occasions by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and me. When looking at services that we provide to any section of the 
Australian community we must ensure that those services not only are in the best interests of the people but also are provided in such a way that the people will benefit from them and the amount of money that is set aside by the national Parliament for them. 
I have found during the last 3 years particularly that whilst there has been a great deal of money set aside for the advancement of Aboriginal and Island people, this money has not always been administered correctly and put to best use. I say this very sincerely because I have come across instances not of misappropriation- I do not imply that at all- but of mismanagement of the money that has been made available. I am aware of it as are the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  who was a shadow minister for aboriginal affairs,  Senator Rae  who was the shadow minister before him and the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister is having this whole area of Government Aboriginal advancement programs thoroughly examined and for this purpose has set up a committee. He has given the task to  Mr David  Hay who is a man of high qualifications and repute. The Minister has asked him to conduct an inquiry and his terms of reference are to examine and report to the Government on the delivery of services financed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs with a view to assessing the effectiveness of the services financed, recommending improvements in the delivery of service and the financial arangements in the interests of the Aboriginal and the community at large, establishing where there are areas of waste or inefficiency. There is quite a deal of waste and inefficiency at the moment and there has been for a long time throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
Let us look at some of the services that have been provided in the past for the Aboriginal community. I refer to services such as the Aboriginal and Island medical service, the Aboriginal and Island legal service and a host of others. I turn firstly to the housing societies that have been established throughout this country allegedly, but perhaps in all genuineness by the previous Government, to provide accommodation for Aboriginal and Island people. What happened was that a number of building societies were set up and run- rightly so- by Aboriginal people. However, unfortunately there are many of them operating very close to each other and the cost of setting them up has been so great that less than one third of the amount of money set aside for housing has gone in the actual purchase of houses. In my area around Brisbane and Ipswich there are 3 housing societies. These Aboriginal housing societies or building societies, whatever they are called, have been set up to service a community of some 8000 or 10 000 Aboriginal and Island people. The waste occurs because there are 3 such societies which have each had to set up their own machinery, each had to set up an office, each had to staff that office, and each had to employ architects and someone to do the valuations. In an area of that size with that kind of population it would have been far better to have had one group having one set of machinery instead of having 3 groups of people doing the same work. 
In Queensland under the system adopted by the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government prior to 1972 money was made available through the State government to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs which had the machinery to do the work, its own staff, its own officers and its own equipment which were paid for out of funds allocated to it by the Queensland Government. The money that was made available by the Federal Government then was actually spent on housing. This was a far better method in my opinion because the money provided was going directly into housing. Consequently the Aboriginal people were benefiting from the whole amount of the money that was allocated to Queensland for Aboriginal housing. The present scheme involves the Aboriginal people in the matter of self-determination, about which we have rightly spoken so often, and Aborigines having the opportunity to manage their own affairs and do things for themselves. That is a wonderful idea and one that I applaud, but I cannot applaud it when the money made available is used unwisely and the Aboriginal people are not benefiting from it. This is what happens in so many areas. 
During  Senator Keeffe  's speech he raised a matter which I would like to mention now because it is something in which I have been involved for some considerable time. I am quite sure that the members of this chamber are well aware of the situation at Aurukun because I have brought it to light here on many occasions. For the  Hansard  record, I should like to state that the Queensland Ombudsman went to Aurukun. Although, when his visit was announced, I was rather sceptical I am now convinced that he has been able to achieve what perhaps I have not been able to achieve.  His  report has now been tabled in the State Parliament. I am quite happy with the findings of the Ombudsman. I should like to read from the report. It is an extensive report and I do not want to read all of it. I think the relevant part of the report to which  Senator Keeffe  referred can be answered by the following words in the report of the Ombudsman: 
I suggest that a meeting be held at the Aurukun settlement to discuss with the Council, Elders and the people the social and environmental issues. 
The persons to attend such conference, to my mind, would include: 
Government representatives 
Church representatives 
Company representatives 
Respective legal representatives. 
If this proposal is accepted, I urge that the meeting take place as soon as possible. 
The Ombudsman did go to Aurukun, he spoke with the people and, although some of the senior members of the Council were away at the time, he still was able to submit to the State Parliament a comprehensive report. During that visit he developed a fair understanding of the problems and the wishes of the Aurukun people. In view of the time, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I rise to indicate my opposition to clauses 7 and 1 1 of this Bill. I have not spoken on the Bill as a whole because I am quite proud of what the Government is proposing in the Bill except for these clauses. I do not particularly want to gain political kudos out of this because to me it is a matter of deep conscience and deep concern for those senior citizens who by clause 7 will be deprived of a benefit, but I am staggered by the deafening silence from the Opposition on this occasion. 
I indicate, despite the rattling noises coming from the empty head on the other side of the chamber - 
I indicate my support for my colleagues on the Government side of the chamber in their opposition to this clause. I am not particularly concerned about the amount of money that is involved. What I am concerned about is the psychological effect on a number of senior citizens of our country when we are today enjoying the fruits of their labour. The people we are talking about, the senior citizens who are to be deprived of the funeral benefit, have made their contributions; they have paid their taxes. I hope that when I reach their age I will be able to say that I too have made my contribution. I indicate my strong opposition to depriving our senior citizens of this benefit. As I said, I am not terribly concerned about the amount of money. To me it is a small amount. If we were proposing to do something extra for the senior citizens of our country I would be all for it, but I will not support taking something away from them. I make it very clear in this chamber that I will be opposing clauses 7 and 1 1 and supporting a colleague on my side when he moves a motion later on. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the growing concern by many property owners in Queensland at the infestation of ragweed? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether his Department or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is doing anything about this weed? 
I rise to congratulate the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on his presentation of this, the second progress report on the bilingual education program in schools in the Northern Territory. To me, and I am sure to many people of my race, this is perhaps one of the most exciting and most important measures ever taken with regard to the education of Aboriginal children. I say this because for far too long the Aboriginal children in the urban and rural areas unfortunately have lost their own tongue. In their own environment they do not speak their own language but speak a kind of lingo that is spoken quite frequently amongst their own people. They have great difficulty when they go into schools which are conducted under the white man's educational system. But this difficulty must be doubled or trebled for the Aboriginal children who live in a tribal or semi-tribal state and who speak or who have learned to speak nothing other than their own tongue. 
One could appreciate surely the confusion in the minds of these infants who go to school and have to learn a foreign language which is entirely different from their own and have to try to be educated to the standard that we all surely would like to see the children being educated to. So I say again that this is one of the most exciting and most important things to have happened in the Aboriginal community. I should like to remark on one part of the report in which the Minister has said: 
The problems of obtaining and retaining suitable nonAboriginal staff covered in the first and second reports remains pressing. Non-Aboriginal staff seem reluctant to remain in remote areas for extended periods and the staff who do accept such appointments tend to be inexperienced. 
I think that this issue is very important because it is something that I have advocated within the Aboriginal community for a long time, not only in the field of education but also in respect of many other aspects of Aboriginal advancement. The Minister goes on to say that where local Aboriginal staff are available a similar problem does not exist and the provision of an increased number of trained Aboriginal teachers and teaching assistants seemed the best way to stabilise the staffing situation. I hope that the Government, and particularly the Minister, will take special note of that and will endeavour as much as they can to ensure that Aboriginal people within the Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory- not only in the Northern Territory but also in the far northern parts of Queensland, in the Kimberleys of Western Australia and perhaps even in the remote parts of South Australiawill be educated under this same system. To return to the point that I was making, although Aboriginal people may not have the academic qualifications necessary to become teachers in the true sense or in normal schools, surely because of their ability to communicate with their own people and to teach things in their own tongue they would be of great advantage to the Aboriginal community and would help the advancement of the Aboriginal people.  Mr President,  in view of the time and the pressing matters before the Senate, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister assure the Senate that, as was alleged in a recent report, the Commonwealth will wait until recommendations regarding the new national anthem are received from the State governments? Further, will the Minister assure the Senate that a repetition of the bungling approach adopted by the former Labor Government in relation to this matter will not occur and that the Government will not be relying on a non-random and absolutely minimal sampling of public opinion, as occurred during the Prime Ministership of  Mr E.  G. Whitlam- a period which, of course, all Australians would like to forget? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of mounting public concern regarding the highly intimate nature of answers required to certain questions alleged to be contained in the forthcoming census form, will the Minister arrange to have a  pro forma  of this document tabled in both Houses of the Parliament to permit honourable senators and members from both sides of the respective Houses to thoroughly examine the nature and the full extent of the questions asked and the information sought therein? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Government cancelled a meeting with the Australian Council of Trade Unions that was to be held next week? 
I rise to support the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. In doing so I say that the Liberal-National Country Party Government is once again to the fore in the introduction of major social welfare reform in what can only be termed a sensible and rational way. It is certainly not introducing schemes like some of the wild, hare-brained ones that we saw introduced during the reign of the previous Government. I want personally and publicly to congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for daring to tread where no Minister has dared to tread for some considerable time. The Bill increases the amount of money allocated to families for their children. The increases as we see them and as they have been presented by the Minister for Social Security are quite substantial. They are higher than any increases that have been made for some considerable time. 
I feel that this is a very important measure, particularly to poor people and those who are working for a living but not always able to provide for their families the necessary items that they would like to provide. I speak from a wealth of experience in this respect. Having been a labourer all of my life until becoming a member of this Parliament and having reared quite a large family, I know the problems at first hand. As a father of some 7 children and having some 20 grandchildren, I believe that I can rightly claim to speak from wide experience in this field. 
That is perhaps one way in which we Aborigines might be able to get control of this country, as we had prior to 1788. It might be the hard way of doing it, but it is perhaps one way of doing it. We hear wild accusations about what is being done for the Aborigines. Maybe this is being taken into account by many of those people who criticise the Government for what it is doing for Aborigines because, as I understand it, we have one of the highest birth rates of any race in this country at the present time. 
Be that as it may, I want to deal with the Bill. I believe it is going to have a tremendous effect in particular on the mothers of the poorer families. This measure is going to give some sense of independence to mothers. They will be able to look at their budgets and say: 'I know that I have a certain amount of money coming in. I know that it is going to be paid directly to me'. Previously many of the menfolk- I might have been guilty of this myself at one stage- would come home with a pay packet and say: 'I am going to take so much, mum. This is for me. You can have the rest. See what you can do with it to feed, clothe and educate the children'. That may be all right in some families but I know of many families in which it is not working out or has not worked out very well. The mother has been trying to make the little amount of money she has been given stretch. The previous amounts that were paid in child endowment were only very small. Of course, rather large increases are now proposed. 
When one looks at the scale one sees that a family with one child will receive $3.50 a week and that the amount received by a family with 2 children jumps up to $8.50 a week. If one goes right down the scale to the second highest rate one can see that $34.50 a week is going to be paid to some mothers. Those mothers will know that they are going to get a substantial amount of money at the end of a month. They know that they will be able to use the money as they see fit to buy clothes and text books for their children and to do all of those things that they have always felt that they would like to do. Surely this is going to give some sense of independence to the mother. She will be able to say to her husband: 'That money is mine to do for our family as I see fit'. I believe that this is a major reform and one that should be supported on both sides of the House. 
As my colleague  Senator Baume  said earlier, does it matter which government brought in this measure and which government has come forward with this major reform in social benefits? It does not matter one iota. What matters is that this has now been done. I believe that honourable senators on both sides of the House should be supporting this legislation. There has been some criticism levelled at it from the other side of the chamber. I suppose that is understandable enough. But by the same token, I believe that we should be supporting it. I know that it will be welcomed by the community at large. I give my wholehearted support to the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by telling the Minister that at approximately 9 o'clock this morning before entering Parliament House I was standing on the steps and noticed that the mail van had arrived. It is quite a large van and was stacked from floor to ceiling with quite large mail bags. I watched the postman carrying those bags, which were quite heavy, two at a time into Parliament House. It would have taken him approximately 20 to 30 minutes to do so. I ask: Will the Minister investigate the possibility of having a ramp built at the House of Representatives side or the Senate side of Parliament House so that the mail bags can be transported into the Parliament House post office on a trolley to save time and to save the postmen from having to do this kind of bullock work? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act relating to the admissibility as evidence of confessions by Aborigines and Islanders, and for purposes connected therewith. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I seek your indulgence,  Mr President,  because the question is in 4 parts. First, what will be the view of the Australian Government in the General Assembly later this year when the report of the United Nations envoy,  Mr Guicciardi,  is presented? Secondly, will Australia maintain a positive role in the United Nations in support of the self determination of the East Timorese people? Thirdly, what steps are being taken to ensure that Australia will not grant de jure or de facto recognition of the integration of East Timor into Indonesia? Fourthly, is the Australian Government fully aware of the messages that are being transmitted from East Timor each week indicating the hold the East Timorese people still have on their territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it true that the Government has appointed  Mr David  Hay to review and examine submissions from all people in respect of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976. If so, will the Minister use her powers of persuasion on the Government to ensure that all members of Parliament, particularly those who are vitally concerned and interested in this very important piece of legislation, have the opportunity of viewing the findings of  Mr David  Hay. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface my question by reminding the Minister that the Aboriginal community on Bathurst Island has decided to ban the receipt on the island of unemployment benefits because of the disruption to the society on the island caused by benefits being paid to individuals. The Bathurst Island Council made that decision unanimously and it is worthy of note that that body is comprised wholly of Aborigines. I ask: Has the Minister received a copy of the resolution requesting that unemployment benefits otherwise payable to individuals but not accepted because of the Council's decision be paid in a lump sum to the Council of the island in order that the money might be spent in a manner which the Council determines is beneficial to the people of the Island? Will the Minister give consideration to the resolution? Does the lead of the Bathurst Island Council in refusing to allow the receipt of benefits that would otherwise cause social strife merit commendation and examination by the Government as a lead which could be followed not only in other Aboriginal communities but by the white Australian community generally? 
-I present the report of the Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders on the reference relating to the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites, together with a copy of the official  Hansard  transcript of evidence taken during the inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition from 268 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia do humbly submit: 
That the Government should withdraw its proposed changes to Medibank. 
The United Nations has declared this decade ( 1 975-85 ) as the Decade of Action for the needs of women. It has also declared the health of all people is a basic human right. 
Believing that women have a major need for adequate, low-cost health care, the undersigned declare their wholehearted opposition to the changes intended by the present Government to Medibank, and affirm that any changes should be designed to further liberalise the original scheme, not to weaken it. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface it by referring to the incident concerning 2 Aboriginal boys who were lost near Melville Bay in the Northern Territory on or about 23 August 1976. Was the mother charged in court in connection with this incident? If so, was she represented in court by legal counsel? Was she convicted of any offence? If so, what was the sentence? Finally, who is now taking care of the 2 small boys? 
I welcome the opportunity this evening to make a contribution to this Budget debate. Naturally, I reject out of hand the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  I am amazed that the Leader of the Opposition should move such a motion. He was a senior Minister in a Government which was in charge of the affairs of this nation for nigh on 3 years and which was responsible for the highest rate of inflation that this country has seen since the depression of the 1930s. Members of the Opposition will deny it, but the facts speak for themselves. I do not think that the loud voices coming from the Opposition benches at the moment will in any way satisfy the people of Australia who, on 13 December last year, were quite categoric in their condemnation of the previous Government and its policies. On 13 December last year the people tossed out the members of the previous Government on their little pink ears and put the sensible, rational, stable government that we have at the moment- the Liberal and National Country Party Government- which is in charge of the affairs of this nation at the present time. 
Naturally one must look at the Budget in its overall context to see what it will do for this nation and for its people. I think that we should look at the 5 principles of the Budget strategy as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and as supported by all honourable senators on this side of the chamber. The 5 principles of the Budget naturally treat the eradication of inflation as the No. 1 priority. Surely not even members of the Opposition would deny that inflation in this country must be reduced because it eats away at savings and because people on fixed incomes are affected by it, as is the whole nation. The ineptitude of the previous Government brought about this inflationary situation. We on the government benches now have the responsibility for doing something about it. 
-We are doing quite well,  Senator Georges.  We are doing far better than the previous Government was able to do in its term of office and I think that the people of Australia are quite aware of that. I am sure that they are confident that the present Government will be able to bring about some sanity to this nation, to reduce the inflationary spiral and to create employment where employment is so sorely needed in the community. 
I do not know whether I should reiterate what has been said previously by my colleagues on this side of the chamber. Many of them have covered the details of the Budget very adequately. Naturally there are other points which I wish to raise in this Budget debate tonight. I suppose all honourable senators from both sides of the chamber feel the need to say something about certain matters. I want to raise two or three matters and one of them is a matter which is near and dear to my heart; that is, what is happening in the field of Aboriginal advancement. I am sure that all honourable senators have some sympathy for and some little understanding of the problems facing members of my race throughout this Commonwealth. They have been suffering from those problems since 1788- some 188 years. 
I am concerned. I have made this known previously. For example, I mentioned it on the night on which the Treasurer brought down his Budget and on the following day. I am on record through the Press, television and radio as saying some things which perhaps have not made my colleagues very happy. But for that I make no apology because it was announced that there would be a substantial cut in Aboriginal affairs. That has given me grave concern. It has caused grave concern throughout the Aboriginal community of this nation. I know that the Government commissioned  Mr Hay  to examine in depth the delivery of service by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the Aboriginal community.  Mr Hay  has been very busy travelling around this nation. He took many weeks- I think 6 or 8 weeks- to ascertain what was going wrong or what was going right with the delivery of service to the Aboriginal community. On 8 April 1976 I had the opportunity to table in the Senate a report. This is unlike the copy of the Hay report which was not tabled in the Senate. 

 - Senator McLaren seems to have been able to acquire a copy of the Hay report. I am the only Aboriginal voice in the Parliament but I was not able to acquire a copy. But by some means or other, according to the honourable senator's own words, he was able to obtain a copy of that report. The idea I am getting across is that on 8 April I tabled in the Senate the report of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders on the environmental conditions of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites. I am not able to go into that report in depth this evening. I mention it for the simple reason that it was the first and only indepth study of the environmental conditions of Aboriginals in the Commonwealth in nigh on 200 years. It is a study which took place over some S years under 2 governments and under 3 Chairmen. The first  Chairman  was the  President, Senator Laucke,  who sits in that chair when he is not overseas. In 1972 there was a change of government and he was followed by my colleague  Senator Keeffe  who sits on the other side of the chamber. With the next change of government I was appointed as  chairman  of that Select Committee. 
-Thank you; that is very kind of you. The point is that  5lA  years work has been put into this report by a number of honourable senators who sat in the chamber and who still sit in the chamber. It was not a Liberal Party report. It was not an Australian Labor Party report. It was not a National Country Party report. It was not an Australian Democratic Labor Party report. Members of each of those Parties sat on the Committee and looked into the environmental conditions of Aboriginal people. What I want to know, and I am sure what Aboriginals across the length and breadth of this country want to know, is: Of which report will this Government or future governments take note? Will it be the report from the Select Committee or the report by  Mr David  Hay. Naturally, they are 2 different types of reports. One report is on the conditions under which Aboriginal people throughout this Commonwealth have lived, are living and will continue to live until this nation wakes up to itself and starts to do something positive about those living conditions. The other report was by  Mr Hay.  Even before the report was tabled there was criticism that there had been wastage and duplication in the delivery of service to Aboriginal people. My question to the Government and, for that matter, to the Opposition is: Who is responsible for that wastage? Who is responsible for that duplication? I assure the Senate that it is not the Aboriginal people but white bureaucrats. They are responsible for the duplication and the wastage. 
But if there is some little wastage by Aboriginal people of the money which is allocated for their advancement, so what? Since 1788 Aboriginals have been at the bottom rung of the ladder. They have been deprived of their natural way of living. They have been dispossessed of the entire country which was once theirs in which to roam and to live. They were dispossessed. They were robbed. Some money is made available for their advancement, for them to become responsible and respected citizens in the community as each and every honourable senator in this place wants to be, and they will endeavour to do that. They have never had the opportunities honourable senators have had in acquiring business expertise and in handling that kind of money. If there is some wastage, then it is time that the Australian people said: 'Well, that is not bad after 188 years. That is not bad at all. ' I have said before and I say again that the Aboriginal people have lived on and will continue for a long time to live on the charity of the governments of the day unless certain things take place. We have seen the classic example of that in the last few years. 
Under the previous Liberal National Country Party Government a certain amount of money was made available for Aboriginal advancement. There was a change of Government and a change of attitude. There was a different idea. So another lot of money was made available by the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. There was a change of government again and there was a different idea. Less money was made available. While $33m was cut away another promise was given that more money would be made available and we should not worry. Again we live on the charity of the government of the day. One government is sympathetic, the next government is not so sympathetic and the next government is sympathetic. Some time ago in this chamber I was given the opportunity to move a motion to urge the Government to recognise the fact that Aboriginals and Islanders were in possession of this entire continent prior to 1788. 1 spoke to the motion at length. There was no opposition to it and it was carried without dissent. At that time the Labor Party was in government. It claimed to be the champions of the Aboriginals. The motion having been passed in this chamber went to the other place. But where is it? It is lost. Nothing was done about it. At that time I stated: 
I say that the day is fast approaching when this compensation for dispossession of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders must - 
I emphasise 'must'-  be channelled to an all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander statutory body empowered to administer such compensation for dispossession. 
Until that kind of thing happens we will be dependent upon the charity of the government of the day. We will be dependent upon the charity of the government of the day until the Australian Government, whichever government it may be and of whatever political persuasion it may follow, accepts the fact that the indigenous people owned this entire nation and sets up a compensation or dispossession fund to be administered by an all-Aboriginal body responsible not to partypolitical government but to Parliament. Whilst we have been waiting on the Hay report there has been chaos within the Aboriginal community, within the Aboriginal Medical Service, the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service, in the housing societies and the building societies that were created by government. Let me read a letter that was sent to one of the Aborigines Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service today. We are told that money will be made available; we are told that services will not be hindered. However, this letter states. 
Dear  Sir, 
Re: Payment of Accounts Rendered 
At the partners meeting of this firm held last Monday and our letter of 23rd of August was considered it was decided that all accounts outstanding of 60 days or more will have to be paid no later than 14th September next! 
We reluctantly have to advise that if these accounts have not been paid by 14th September we then will have no alternative than to cease acting for the Service. 
All we can say, as we are most concerned, and have been for some time at those accounts outstanding for a lengthy period of time. 
That is an account owed to solicitors who dealt with the Aborigines and Islanders Legal Service. They worked for that service and rendered their services because they were told that the money that would be allocated to the Aborigines and Islanders Legal Service would be forthcoming. If these solicitors do not work for the legal service, how many more Aborigines and Islanders will not be represented in court, will be railroaded into gaol, will not understand court procedures and will not be able to stand up for themselves because money is not being made available for legal services? The Legal Service has done so much to help Aboriginal people over some two or three years now. 
In my city of Ipswich the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Medical Service received a letter recently. Unfortunately I do not have it with me but it was from the headquarters of the Aborigines and Islanders Community Health Service in Brisbane and said that because of the cutbacks in government expenditure on Aboriginal affairs, in future Aborigines would have to pay for their own prescriptions. Is this fair to the Aboriginal people who for reasons beyond their control are not able to do the things they would like to do in their own Health Service? Mothers receiving that letter will not take their children to the Medical Service to be examined, to be diagnosed and then to be sent to the chemist because they would not have the money to pay for the prescriptions. This means that they will not even go to the Medical Service to be examined in the first place because they will say: 'What is the good? If I go to the hospital the doctor will tell me I am sick. He will write a prescription but I will not be able to get the medicine. So what is the good of going to the doctor?' These services must be maintained at all costs and I ask the Government to look into these matters and make money available for them. 
Another organisation whose funds have been slashed mercilessly is Aboriginal Hostels Limited, of which I happen to be on the board of directors. Our funds have been slashed to the extent that there will be no new acquisitions this current year which means that a number of people will continue to live in old motor cars on the banks of creeks or on the commons of country towns, will continue to go to their friends in overcrowded homes that some Aboriginal people do happen to have, will continue to cause health hazards in those homes because of overcrowding, will continue to cause problems for the Aboriginal people who happen to be living in those houses because of neighbours complaining and health authorities saying that they cannot live there. Aboriginal Hostels Limited was filling a need in the community. It was established in the Australian Capital Territory on 6 June 1973 and presently its building acquisition program has been suspended. It was providing accommodation under its charter, which was to assess the need for and to operate or fund suitable accommodation for Aboriginal people whose tenure of residence is to be determined by need. We have established a number of hostels. In Brisbane we have 5 hostels being run by Aboriginal Hostels Limited. People in Brisbane who were our strongest critics are now our strongest supporters because of the kind of work we have been doing in this field. I have collated a fair amount of material explaining what Aboriginal Hostels Limited is all about, what it has endeavoured to do and what it will continue to do providing the Government makes funds available to it, and I seek leave to have this information incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Aboriginal Hostels Limited is a Public Company, established in the Australian Capital Territory on the 6th June, 1973. Presently, its building acquisition program has been suspended. I believe on the basis of the Hay inquiry and pending the outcome of the current Inter-Departmental Committee. It was set up as an expression of new emphasis to be given to Aboriginal Advancement by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The aim adopted by Aboriginal Hostels Limited is: to assess the need for, and to operate or fund suitable accommodation for Aboriginals whose tenure of residence will be determined by need, adding to capacity at a rate which will meet needs by 1 982. 
Specifically in categories such as students and trainees, persons seeking medical or rehabilitation assistance, supporting single parents and children, workers, transients and aged or infirm persons. 
Aboriginal Hostels was seen as a means by which essential and urgent accommodation could be provided for such 
Aboriginal people with a minimum amount of delay and maximum of flexibility. 
But allow me to begin by answering one of the real questions. Why is temporary accommodation so urgently needed and so essential for Aboriginal people? Well, in order to understand why, you need, at the same time, to get to know a little bit about what the situation is now for many Aboriginal people who are unable to find suitable temporary accommodation. To talk a little more about the people we have mentioned already - 
You 11 find that more and more frequently nowdays, programs of the various Federal and State Department of Education are enabling students from small Aboriginal communities to take up opportunities for better education. Yet often these schools are a long way from home and usually in larger country towns or in cities. Where the student is faced with the problems of adjusting to living in a larger town and attending a large school without the benefit of family kin support. Most students from small communities drop out of secondary school within eighteen months, under these circumstances. 
Pre-employment and trade training programs conducted by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations offer great opportunities to young Aboriginal people. Once again, however, the young student, a long way from home and without family support, has a very difficult road to success. 
As with education facilities, medical assistance generally is concentrated in city or regional areas and thus Aboriginal people and their families need to visit these centres to obtain health care. If there is a need to wait for admission to hospital or for transport home after their hospital care is completed they require temporary accommodation and they are often unable to find it at a cost they can afford. Lack of this sort of suitable accommodation at an affordable cost often deters Aboriginal people from seeking medical attention which they or their family require, and if they do receive such medical assistance it does happen that these patients are kept in hospital for longer than is necessary purely because of the lack of suitable accommodation in which aftercare medical treatment and full recovery can be effected. 
Still, health is one of many problems besetting Aboriginal people, alcohol is another. Most of you are probably aware of the negative stereotype of the drunken Aboriginal, but, do you know what is being done about it? The Department of Aboriginal Affairs puts a high priority on finding solutions to the alcoholic problems of individuals and communities and is very keen to encourage Aboriginal initiatives in alcoholic rehabilitation. Yet it is observed that many alcoholic rehabilitation programs stand a better chance of being successful. If they are able to provide accommodation for the people undergoing rehabilitation. Such provision of accommodation has often been the determining factor in the success of alcoholic rehabilitative programs. It would seem that if the person really wants to be rehabilitated he has a better chance of success if he has a place to stay while he's undergoing the program. At the moment programs for Aboriginal alcoholic rehabilitation are able to provide for this essential accommodation facility. Yet in these existing programs where accommodation is presently provided it is insufficient, either for different stages of the rehabilitation process or because of the number of Aboriginals seeking treatment being too great for the existing live-in facilities. 
Supporting mothers and single parents who, when they find themselves alone in times of crisis need immediate accommodation. Yet at present they frequently have to wait a couple of weeks for assistance or the provision of housing and pension payments. And frequently, because of their young children, they cannot work and are unable to raise funds to pay bonds and rent. Women's Refuges are crowded with needy, supporting mothers. Supporting mothers often have to put their children in homes or with relatives and friends until they can re-establish themselves. They can, sometimes, encounter difficulty in regaining the custody of their children if they have been unable to find accommodation and a means of support in the intervening period. Without temporary accommodation the mother and her children are sometimes unable to avoid these difficult circumstances, the continuity and security so essential for any family is often disrupted. 
Aboriginal people, as do many others for a variety of reasons, often choose to seek employment opportunities away from their original area, or family home. And because of the generally unskilled and semi-permanent nature of the employment that is most readily available they are unable to accumulate the necessary savings or perhaps even earn sufficient wages to compete for the accommodation that is quite often in short supply in seasonal or contract work locations. Thus, in order to take up job opportunities, single Aboriginal people and Aboriginal families must often make such a move and since, under the circumstances, it often takes some time to find suitable accommodation, these Aboriginal people require opportunities to take up suitable forms of temporary accommodation at reasonable cost, in locations where such employment opportunities from time to time become available. Aboriginal itinerants, homeless people and people visiting other areas for their own economic or social purposes, form a small but significant part of the Aboriginal population. These transient peoples' needs for accommodation are very difficult to ascertain and fulfil. Yet it is very apparent that where no attempt is made to serve the temporary accommodation needs of this large group. Many of such people are forced to sleep in unsanitary and hazardous conditions in parks, railway stations, culverts and abandoned cars at some personal and health risk or are forced to overcrowd family or kin resident households possibly causing anxiety, financial difficulties, and stress for all concerned. 
But, apart from any compassionate reasons for attempting to obvert these sorts of situations you should be aware that a similar negative stereotype to that of the drunken Aboriginal is the Aboriginal who is dirty, unkempt and sleeps in parks. Yet, many of the inter-racial tensions between Aboriginals and others, many of the problems of local government and police might be alleviated by the provision of temporary accommodation for such transient Aboriginal people in city and regional centres. 
To continue, it often happens that aged Aboriginal people, just like aged people in almost any country cannot always be cared for by their families. Or, again, just like anyone else, don't like to feel that they are a burden on their families. So, it can and does happen that some aged Aboriginal people are obliged to live in squalid circumstances and if they become ill or infirm, they may be in danger if they are then unable to care for themselves. 
If I may just repeat these points, temporary accommodation is needed to enable Aboriginal individuals and families to move to new areas to take up opportunities in education, employment, rehabilitation and medical treatment or to travel for personal purposes while maintaining a decent standard of living at a price they can afford. 
As well, emergency temporary accommodation is also necessary for families in crisis or transit until permanent housing can be found. None of these needs are presently met by existing services as housing programs for Aboriginals only cater for permanent residency and the private accommodation market is difficult to break into at short notice, with limited finances and in the face of apprehension on the part of landlords and agents. 
In the absence of temporary accommodation, most Aboriginals do not avail themselves of opportunities which are presented to them purely because of this lack of temporary accommodation. Those who do attempt to travel in search of opportunities resort to sleeping in parks or overcrowding the homes of local residents living in unsanitary conditions and creating a nuisance. Usually the difficulties of living jeopardise the persons performance in education or employment and they drop out and fall prey to the alcohol and social problems of urban living. 
Because unsatisfactory accommodation and associated worries distract people from studies, training and other specific programs, special accommodation is essential to ensure that Aboriginals derive full benefit from programs presented for them by Government authorities. Without temporary accommodation there is very low cost effectiveness on the following programs: the Department of Education- Aboriginal Secondary and Study Grant the Department of Employment and Industrial relationsTrade training courses and individual placements in employment 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs and Health (through third parties)- alcoholic rehabilitation programs 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs (through Aboriginal Legal Services)- pre-court, probation and post-release action 
State and Federal Departments of Health- General health care programs are often ineffective in the face of overcrowding and poor living conditions. 
These then are the reasons why temporary accommodation is so urgently needed and so essential to the advancement and development of Aboriginal people and despite the fact that their programs are presently under review allow me to further explain just what- Aboriginal Hostels Limited has done about filling the need for temporary accommodation since it commenced operations in 1 973. 
Aboriginal Hostels Limited goes to great pains to realistically determine the needs for hostels taking into account desperation of need, social development of the users, social development of the area, economic appropriateness and possible social and economic changes in the area or in the Aboriginal client group. You sec, AHL and I, myself, believe that temporary accommodation is the major part of the remedial action necessary to intercept the cycle of poverty and dependence which Aboriginals are now pan of. By providing accommodation and support services Aboriginals are given a boost which gives them the opportunity to become self-sufficient and able to participate in the wider Australian society if they so desire. Especially since Aboriginals need the support of special accommodation and sometimes welfare assistance because they are usually the last choice of employers and landlords and lack the resources of economic, technical and social skills. 
Furthermore, because of their different lifestyle and lack of personal resources, Aboriginals find themselves peripheral to the non-Aboriginal social and economic system and need extra assistance to establish themselves within it. Appropriate accommodation and support services can help significant numbers of Aboriginals to take up education and employment opportunities and to avoid getting trapped in this poverty cycle. Given this appropriate accommodation the following present and pressing Government problems could be eased: 
The unproductive welfare drain, with no hope of individuals being able to leave their dependent state 
The cost of police, legal aid, courts and gaol for vagrancy, drunkenness and petty crime, when Aboriginal individuals have no real alternative 
The cost of ineffective education, health and employment programs which are rendered ineffective by the lack of suitable accommodation for the Aboriginal client group 
Racial tension due to the present largely unavoidable lifestyles of many Aboriginals and consequent apprehension on the part of non-Aboriginal residents. 
In determining strategies to meet these needs, Aboriginal Hostels Limited has conducted a town by town estimate of hostel needs throughout Australia and it is calculated that an additional 6328 beds are urgently needed with a further 5200 beds of a lower priority subsequently required. Yet, presently their building and acquisition program has been suspended. But to continue as well as owning and operating its own hostels, the Company assists Aboriginal organisations and selected other interested organisations to run their own hostels. This may be where an existing hostel serves a clientele which would otherwise have been served by the Company, or where an Aboriginal community wishes to run its own programs of community development value. A number of programs of alcoholics and ex-prisoners are successfully operating under this scheme. At 30 June 1976 the Company funded 28 third party organisations, some of which were operating from Company owned properties. In addition, the Company owned or leased and operated 55 hostels. To enumerate these needs by client category, the immediate identified known Australian requirements are as follows: 
Education needs- 266 beds already provided by AHL and 550 additional beds urgently required 
Employment needs- 165 beds already provided by AHL and 740 additional beds urgently required 
Training Courses needed- 1 16 already provided by AHL and 48 additional beds urgently required 
Transients' needs- 153 beds already provided by AHL and 2720 additional beds urgently required 
Supporting Mothers' needs- 58 beds already provided by AHL and 1005 additional beds urgently required 
Medical Outpatients needs- 640 additional beds urgently required 
Alcoholics needs- 57 beds already provided by AHL and 225 additional beds urgently required 
Legal needs- 32 beds already provided by AHL and 100 additional beds urgently required 
Aged Persons needs- 22 beds already provided by AHL and 300 additional beds urgently required 
Other needs- 45 beds already provided by AHL with a total of 914 beds presently provided by AHL and 6328 additional beds urgently required. The 6328 beds urgently required is a conservative but thoroughly documental estimate. 
In addition to meeting the needs for temporary accommodation, self-management and self-sufficiency by the Aboriginal people is a top priority in the policy of Aboriginal Hostels Limited. The Company is run by a Board of Directors responsible to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and comprises six Aboriginal and three non-Aboriginal people, all leaders in their particular field be it Aboriginal community affairs, hostel, hotel or financial administration. Another priority policy of the Company is to regionalise, as far as economically possible, to ensure that the Aboriginal community has a say in the location and operation of hostels. Eight Regional Managers have been appointed strategically throughout Australia to be responsible for the development and operation of hostels in their Region. Regional Managers' activities are co-ordinated through a strong administrative Central Office comprising five Divisions- 
. Planning and Programming 
Project, Management and Control 
Operations 
Personnel, Training and Development, and 
Finance these Divisions in turn are co-ordinated by the General Manager. The Company's staff of 230 at 30th June, 1976 is 76 per cent comprised of Aboriginal people. All the Company's hostels are managed by Aboriginal persons, in just a few cases with non-Aboriginal assistance. Very high in the Company priorities is the training of personnel since many of the Company's staff are Aboriginal people, some of whom have not had experience in the operation of a large organisation. This policy is in line with the recommendation of the (April 1975) Commission of Inquiry into Poverty which states: it is most important that Government Departments should increase their efforts to employ Aboriginals at all levels in the design and implementation of programmes which effect Aboriginal people. These departments should be prepared to give extra training to Aboriginals even if it means treating the situation as subsidised employment for the first year or so '. 
The Company at 30 June 1976 employed 176 Aboriginal people in effective operating positions. It trains its people on the job as well as through formal training programmes. 
As well the Company is very much aware that its hostels must not become institutional in character. It has endeavoured to acquire properties which avoid the pitfalls of a common boarding house- which are usually impersonal and non supportive of boarders or residents. The Company has expressed preference for smaller hostels particularly when it is required for student or pre-employment purposes. All of the Company's student and pre-employment hostels have a resident capacity up to a maximum of sixteen persons plus accommodation for the House Parents and their dependents. There is one exception at Cairns where the hostel has a capacity for 44 students. The Company's employment hostels vary in size from the small type for young workers to the larger 44 or 60 bed hostel. Generally speaking, the size of the hostel is smaller for the younger worker, the larger type hostels being acquired where the availability of work justifies the larger sized property. The Company also has some employment hostels where no food is provided and these are under the supervision and responsibility of a head lessee. 
Transient Hostels cater for families as well as individuals in transit, homeless or seeking employment or medical help and are of larger sizes depending upon the demand and the properties available at the time of acquisition. Current sizes range between 28 and 60 beds per hostel. 
For Aged Persons small units are desirable although for administrative ease, a number of the Company's properties may be placed under one management. 
The Company also has one hostel catering for women and their dependent children, the capacity being 38 beds. As well the Company funds many third party hostels. Conditions of the Company funding third party operations include the meeting not only of operational standards set by the Company but also quarterly submissions of income expenditure statements and occupancy statistics followed by an annual audited statement of income and expenditure. Third party operations in Company owned hostels are governed by a lease document entered into between the Company and the third party organisation. Regional Managers maintain regular contact with these organisations giving advice as needed and the cost of their operations are scrutinized and compared to the Company's known costs of operations. 
In Company operated hostels, the size of the hostel has a great bearing on the cost per head of operations. It is calculated that an employment hostel of 64 beds, 100 per cent occupied for the whole year with no bad debts will break even on cost at the Company standard employment tariff rate. However, only in one instance is the company operating a 64 bed employment hostel and it cannot be expected to maintain total occupancy rate and a 100 per cent tariff payment level. Smaller hostels proportionally have a higher operating cost per head. Hostel operational costs are closely controlled through specific authorities for expenditure, close budgetary control over individual expense items and staff numbers. The Company has engaged the Auditor General under the Companies Ordinance 1962-74 to report on the Company's account and the accounting and other records required to be kept under the Ordinance. The Company also has its own internal audit section. The Company tariffs are currently the source of some conjecture. Yet, consider that hostel accommodation is, by definition, temporary accommodation. The Company through the establishment of hostel accommodation is giving its clients a boost in life and is not trying to capture them as permanent residents. The tariffs established are therefore at a level which encourages persons to use the Company's hostels but does not encourage them to remain for long periods. Because if the tariff level is too high then Aboriginal people will prefer to use unsatisfactory living conditions and the Company would not be serving the need. Too high a tariff would also mean that clients would also be unable to save for bond money etc. to move into housing. On the other hand, the tariff must be high enough to provide an incentive for the person to move into permanent accommodation. If tariffs are set incorrectly persons may be forced to remain in the hostel longer than they would otherwise have done, preventing other Aboriginals from using the hostel and requiring the Company to establish more hostels in the long run. 
Yet a further factor to consider is that the Company should not expect persons to pay a different tariff in a small hostel from that of a large hostel which is for the same category of client. The general tariff structure must be considered in the light of the particular persons who are the Company's prospective clientele, their ability to pay and the temporary term of such accommodation. The report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty advises that income data from research studies in Brisbane and Adelaide indicates the 55 per cent of Aboriginal households in these areas are well below or near the poverty line. There is a high instance of poverty among urban Aboriginals and the report further states that whilst there is: no recent study of income of rural Aboriginals, our impression is that they are generally lower- because of high unemployment- and we expect the instance of poverty to be consequently higher'. 
The report further states- 
Aboriginals typically have poorly paid jobs and many are unemployed'. ( More than 30 per cent of the Aboriginal work force was unemployed as at March, 1976. The Brisbane research study found that of Aboriginals who were working more than 90 per cent were in unskilled jobs. 
People who are unemployed, whatever their race, are likely to be in poverty. Aboriginals face many problems in the employment field. Many of them are located in areas where there are insufficient jobs and they are competing with white people who are better trained and more experienced in work practices '. 
With these observations in mind, Company tariff charges are currently governed by the following guidelines: 
Income earners are required to pay  Vs  of normal gross earnings up to a maximum of $31.35 per week (the maximum tariff applicable to migrant hostels). 
Family tariff associated with an income earner is 50 per cent of the normal gross earnings up to a maximum of $56 per week. 
Recipients of Social Service benefits are required to pay 50 per cent of the amount of benefit received. 
Secondary students, primary students, students attending training courses are required to pay the full living-away-from-home allowance to which they are entitled in any State or Commonwealth assistance scheme. 
Residents occupying houses or self-contained flats are required to pay an 'economic rental ' based on formula used for calculating rentals applicable to Aboriginal housing financed by the Australian Government. 
Hostel Managers/House Parents are provided free board and lodging. Dependents of Hostel Managers/House Parents are required to pay the equivalent of tariff charges for migrant hostel accommodation for family dependents. 
Other Hostel Staff are required to pay in accordance with the Award under which these persons are employed. 
Following this Government's establishment of increased family allowances, particularly to assist the low family income earner, the Company is in the process of revising its tariffs to take account of family allowances within total income assessed for tariff purposes. The Company also intends to make representations to the Departments of Education and Employment and Industrial Relations for increases in the living-away-from-home-allowances paid to students. The $26 per week currently provided is inadequate. 
A further point needs to be made. The tariffs established and as included in Hostel Instructions are intended to be clear in their interpretation. With Aboriginal people, there will always be persons in special needy circumstances and where special consideration must be given to reduce or completely waive the tariffs in respect of certain individuals for short or long period dependent upon the circumstances. The General Manager will review special cases and authorise, in writing, any amendment to tariffs in individual cases accordingly. 
To conclude, the provision of hostels is not an isolated activity which can be increased or decreased at will because the effectiveness of so much other Aboriginal Affairs expenditure relates to or hinges upon of all such programs to the Aboriginal community would improve measurably with a continuity of hostel acquisition particularly as it relates to other government outlays on Aboriginal employment and training, secondary and study grants, alcoholic rehabilitation, hospital and health services and the care of young children. Apart from the need for special purpose hostels to support programmes of other organisations, Aboriginals Hostels Limited services a large clientele of Aboriginal people unable to find proper temporary and permanent accommodation anywhere else. Many have unstable employment patterns, many are itinerant for a variety of reasons and therefore have difficulty in securing suitable accommodation. 
Aboriginal Hostels Limited seeks recognition of the achievements it has made in the difficult role of balancing needs, community development, social and economic responsibility and Aboriginal management to which it has addressed itself. Such recognition is best facilitated by the provision of adequate finance. 
-I am glad that I was given leave to incorporate that information because it certainly would have taken a long time to read it to the Senate this evening. I am concerned about the report that has been tabled in the Senate and the report that has not been tabled, that is, the allegedly confidential Cabinet document, the report of  Mr Hay.  I hope that the Government when considering that latter report will bear in mind the other report that was tabled here by me a couple of weeks ago. Certainly I hope that money will be forthcoming for Aboriginal advancement because, regardless of what is contained in the report presented by  Mr Hay,  I defy the Government and  Mr Hay  to prove to me that the duplication and wastage he has found will reach the amount that has been slashed from the Budget, $33m. I would go as far as to say that it is possible that there has been wastage of maybe $lm. But to the extent of $33m, never. I certainly will be concerned. I will continue to show my concern. I will continue to press the Government to make good the amount of money that was slashed from the Aboriginal affairs part of the Budget, because I earnestly believe that that money must be made available again to the Aboriginal community; otherwise all that will happen is that there will be a perpetuation of the conditions under which we have lived for nigh on 200 years. This will happen unless Governments understand the problems that we are facing and continue to make money available to better the conditions under which unfortunately a great percentage of my fellow Aborigines have to live at the present time. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This day for me, the first Aboriginal parliamentarian, is indeed a momentous occasion, one which causes all prior events in my life, with the exception of that day on which I first came to this chamber, to pale into insignificance. For when this Bill becomes law, and become law it surely must, it will be a historic milestone in the betterment of the plight of the indigenous and island peoples of Australia, as defined in this Bill, one of whom I am justly and fiercely proud to be. This Bill can be likened unto the mythical phoenix, as it rises and triumphs from the ashes of oppression, discrimination, and mistrust, which for far too long has been the lot of my people; a cruel lot, thrust upon them by almost 2 centuries of harsh, unthinking and, generally, uncaring European rule. 
I will digress a moment,  Mr Deputy President  and honourable senators, and trace the history of my peoples to refresh your memories, and in some cases to inform the uninformed as to the events which have caused the very real problems that exist for the indigenous and island peoples in their contact with the law, that is European law. After some 40 000 years of peaceful possession of this vast continent, living under a culture so totally different from, and in many respects much better than, that of their conquerors, many of my ancestors were unceremoniously butchered. Those far too few who escaped the guns, knives, and poisons of your so-called civilised ancestors were herded in droves into reserves and missions, there to live in enslavement, under conditions which were so completely foreign to their former life style. In that former life style they had lived in a strict rotational system, in clearly denned tribal areas, brother to all creatures, and so completely in tune with nature. 
Those who avoided death, and the subsequent great round-up, and others who escaped from the missions and reserves, came to the cities and towns, there to be completely shunned by white society and forced to lead the life of pariahs in tin shanties, in bark humpies and in other degrading accommodation,  on  the banks of creeks, on the outskirts of the towns and, indeed in any place sufficiently far from the cities and towns so that they would not offend the delicate senses of their so-called superior white masters. These of my race were the fringe dwellers, the legion of the lost, the dirty, ignorant, mentally inferior, Abos', Boongs 'Blacks' as you were want to call us, and treat us accordingly. 
It was within this deprived society that I grew up; within these harsh confines of human degradation that I, Neville Bonner, suffered the cruel barbs of discrimination and depravity at the hands of my white brother. Is it little wonder that there is suspicion and mistrust. The wounds are still raw, and the resultant psychological scarring remains. The plight of my Islander brothers was no different from that of my race. They are not indigenous in the true definition of the word as they came or, rather, were brought to Australia after colonisation by the white man. The Islanders, or 'Kanakas', as white men so degradingly christened them, were proud people, kidnapped from their Pacific Island homes and brought to Australia as black slaves to white masters. Those who were not kidnapped were duped into signing false work contracts by cunning and sadistic sea merchants called 'black birders'. 
Between 1847 and 1901, about 54000 Islanders were 'employed'- I use the term loosely as it was nothing more than a state of total slavery- on sugar and cotton plantations in Queensland and northern New South Wales. They too were clustered around the outskirts of towns and, like their Aboriginal brothers, were treated to the same cruel and ignorant discrimination and oppression, and shared the same fate as their culture and customs were derided and destroyed. This rampant destruction of our culture, and the socio-economic evils which followed are now indelibly and shamefully inked on the pages of history for all generations to see, a lasting monument to Australian man's inhumanity to man. 
As our culture was systematically destroyed and the tribal laws and customs which had sustained us for aeons were deliberately eroded, my forefathers were subjected to the white man's law, laws which were incomprehensible to them and which, in many incidents, were in complete contrast to those which had formerly nurtured them. The white man's law had evolved from custom- European custom- tailored to meet the requirements of the European civilisation and, I stress, a European civilisation that in no single way faintly resembled those codes of conduct which were socially acceptable to my ancestors and to their mode and style of living. 
Surely honourable senators must agree that herein Les the conflict which has plagued my people since 1788. The conflict naturally has arisen from this lack of understanding and from, I will go so far as to say, the hostile unacceptance of a new set of rules which were forced upon them, rules which govern what is considered to be socially acceptable in the strict European definition. Align with this the suspicion, mistrust and fear of white authority which was spawned as a result of their early treatment at the hands of the conqueror. These seeds of suspicion, mistrust and fear were sown and allowed to flourish, watered by the hands of ignorance and callous indifference. Therefore, is it any wonder that in such conditions as these we have today the inescapable fact that the indigenous and Islander peoples of Australia are the most incarcerated race in the world? 
These are not my findings but those of the late  Dr Elizabeth  Eggleston in her book  Fear, Favour and Affection,  which sketches the dimension of the Aboriginal criminal problem. Although her figures are basically for 1 964, 1 965 and some for 1968, 1 am quite confident that the figures have not improved, and I would venture to say that from my observations, they have in fact worsened. The late  Dr Eggleston  indicated in her book that of those offenders who were imprisoned one-third were Aboriginal in the 
States of Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria. She also indicated that of female prisoners, 64 per cent were Aboriginal. Thus, honourable senators, what we are faced with, is the damning truth that in Australia there is Aboriginal incarceration to the extent of one-third of all prisoners. What a condemnation! What a malignant cancer on the much vaunted system of British justice'! This is an even more disagreeable state of affairs when it is considered in the cold harsh light of reality that the indigenous and Islander peoples of Australia represent less than 1 per cent of our total population. 
Now, can honourable senators see the need for reform, the need for greater protection of my indigenous and Islander brothers in their dealings with the law. To me the need is painfully obvious, and it is with the utmost humility that I say that this Bill will be a giant step forward in this regard. I am not naive enough to think for one moment that it will totally solve the problem, but I am confident that it will allay many of the problems associated with the indigenous peoples and the law and law enforcement agencies. The Commonwealth Government, as a result of the 1 967 referendum, has the power to make this Bill law for all of Australia and it must not shirk its duty in this regard. 
I thank honourable senators for their indulgence, while I have, with limited time at my disposal, traced the history of my people and, I trust, illustrated the dire and urgent need for such a Bill as I am proposing. This Bill proposed that Aborigines and Islanders be given legislative protection to ensure that when written records of review, confessions, or oral confessions, are given to police officers investigating the commission of offences, the Aborigine or Islander concerned completely understands the nature of the questions put to him and the fact that he has the right to remain silent. It would be fair to say that the Bill puts into legislative form the spirit of the Judges Rules as to the manner in which the interview should be carried out, and in fact follows closely the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission, chaired by  Mr Justice  Kirby, in relation to the investigation of offences as set out in Appendix B of that report. 
The manner in which the confession or statement is to be recorded must be by mechanical means, which is to be put into the custody of an authorised person after the recording has been made, until the accused first comes before the court; it is then put into the custody of the court. Alternatively, where no tape recorders are possible, the statement is written out in full and signed by the Aborigine or Islander and the police officer and confirmed in front of an authorised person, either at the same time or before the first magistrate before whom the accused appears. The authorised person may be: 
A magistrate or justice of the peace; 
A minister of religion, registered under Division 1 of Part IV of the Marriage Act 1961-1973; 
A person authorised under a law of a State or Territory to practice medicine; 
A representative of a body or association providing welfare or social services; 
A representative of an organisation providing legal aid for prescribed persons; 
A person included in a class of persons declared by the regulations to be a person to whom this paragraph applies. 
The purpose of his presence is to ensure that the Aborigine or Islander understands the meaning and import of the questions put to him, as well as his legal right to remain silent. This person is asked to fulfil the impartial responsibility of ensuring that the Aborigine or Islander knows and appreciates the import of questions and their answers as well as his legal rights. There often has been criticism by members of the legal profession at all levels of the practice of 'verballing' whereby false testimony can be given of a conversation between the accused and a police officer which inculpates the accused. This oral testimony is comparatively easy to manufacture and extremely difficult to disprove. One effect of this Bill should be to negate this practice, because any verbal conversation which is to be given in evidence must be recorded according to the provisions of the Act. On the other hand, if a person does give such verbal confession and afterwards denies it, it would be a most difficult procedure for him to extricate himself from the situation created by his verbal confession. 
This Bill, therefore, will expedite the administration of justice without favour to the defence or to the prosecution. Indeed, I have heard of comments from both defence counsel and prosecutors indicating that the procedure whereby oral confessions are recorded by mechanical means with adequate safeguards, or, alternatively recorded in front of a third party and signed by all present, would prevent the wastage of court time which occurs when a prisoner who has confessed to police takes it upon himself to deny this fact at his trial. It would also prevent wastage of court time which occurs when a police officer says that an oral confession was given when, in fact, it was not. In this case, the court launches into an inquiry itself- mid-trial- to ascertain whether on the balance of probabilities the confession was made and whether it was voluntary. 
I see that this Bill would give objective evidence supporting a prosecution case or, alternatively, would, if the facts suited the situation, prevent false evidence being tendered in court. It may be that in the fullness of time, civil liberties pressure groups, the legal profession or the community at large would wish to see a similar provision, as proposed by me in this Bill, extended to the community in general. Such legislation I understand can be done only by the various State governments concerned. However, I have taken some care to ensure that this Bill propounds and establishes a method of inquiry which is practicable to police officers so that they are not unduly hampered in the execution of their duty. At the same time, it provides safeguards for Aborigines and Islanders to ensure that they not only know they have the right to be silent but also that, in the heat of the investigative process, the enthusiasm of the police officers does not lend itself to improper short cuts. Aborigines and Islanders must be advised of their right to be silent as well as have full understanding of the questions being posed. Difference in language, education, culture, and general background between Aborigines and Islanders and their interrogators makes the safeguards proposed by this Bill worthy, I believe, of the support of all honourable senators in this chamber. 
Honourable senators would be aware that many Aborigines and Islanders have problems understanding the English language because of differences of language, culture and education of society in which they live, where the English language spoken may bear very little resemblance to that used in this House, or, wherever English language concepts cannot be accurately translated into Aboriginal language. To dramatically illustrate this language difficulty, and other associated difficulties, encountered by my people and their dealings with the law, I intend drawing freely on pertinent passages of the judgment handed down by his honour  Mr Justice  Forster, in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory of Australia, when dismissing the charges against the accused in the case which is reported as 'Nos 58-61 of 1975  The Queen  v.  Angas Anunga, Sandy Ajax, Clancy Ajax,  v.  Tjingunya  and also Nos 207 and 208 of 1975  The Queen  v.  Nan Wheeler  and  Frankie Miller Jagamala  To simplify matters these cases are commonly referred to as, 'The Paula Sweet Case' and, in fact, some of the glaring injustices surrounding the investigation of this case, were the subject of a documentary on Australian Broadcasting Commission television in its program  Four Corners,  which I sincerely trust that honourable senators had the privilege, or should I more properly say, the dismay, of seeing. 

 Mr Deputy President, under an arrangement between the Government and the Opposition I was given 20 minutes to deliver my second reading speech. In view of the time left to me, I seek leave to have the remainder of my speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

With regard to the language difficulties,  Mr Justice  Forster, on pages 3 and  4  of his Reasons for Judgment, says: 
What I say, and I am authorised to say that  Mr Justice  Muirhead and  Mr Justice  Ward agree, may be taken as an expression of the Court's view, not only my own. What I say is also not exclusive. I do not deal with the offering and application of violence, nor with the offering of threats or inducements. These are, I think, sufficiently well known to require no further repetition by me. I preface this statement of Guidelines by pointing out that Aboriginal People often do not understand English very well, and that, even if they do understand the words, they may not understand the concepts which English phrases and sentences express. Even with the use of interpreters, this problem is by no means solved. 
Police and legal English sometimes is not translatable into the Aboriginal languages at all, and there are no separate Aboriginal words for some simple words like . . .'in', 'at', on', 'by', 'with', or 'over'. These being suffixes added to the words they qualify. Some words may translate literally into Aboriginal language, but mean something different. 'Did you go into his house?' means to an English-speaking person, 'Did you go into the building?' But to an Aboriginal, it may also mean, 'Did you go within the fence surrounding the house?' English concepts of time, number and distance, are imperfectly understood, if at all by Aboriginal People, many of the more primitive of whom cannot tell the time by a clock. One frequently hears the answer, 'Long time', which, depending on the context, may be minutes, hours, days, weeks, or years. In case I may be misunderstood, I should also emphasise that I am not expressing the view that Aboriginal People are any less intelligent than white people, but simply that their concepts of certain things and the terms in which they are expressed, may be wholly different to those of white people. 
Another matter which needs to be understood, is that most Aboriginal People are basically courteous and polite, and will answer questions by white people in the way in which they think the questioner wants. Even if they are not courteous and polite, there is the same reaction when they are dealing with an authority figure, such as a Policeman. 
Indeed this action is probably a combination of natural politeness, and their attitude to someone in authority. Some 
Aboriginal People find the standard caution quite bewildering, even if they understand that they do not have to answer questions, because, if they do not have to answer questions, then why are the questions being asked? 
The honourable  Mr Justice  Forster and, as you see, with the concurrence of his brothers Muirhead and Ward, recognised a problem, and at least in the Northern Territory- one of the present 'hot beds' of Aborigine-police relationssaw that it was of such importance, that certain guidelines were laid down for police to observe when dealing with Aborigines. These guidelines are contained in the judgment, at pages 5, 6, and 7, for those senators who would wish to read them, and they are indeed in keeping with the concepts of this Bill. 
The guidelines laid down by Judge Forster included the suggestions that: 
Interpreters be used when the Aborigine is not fluent in English. 
Where practicable a 'prisoner's friend' be present during interrogations. This person should be someone in whom the Aborigine had confidence. 
Great care be used in administering a caution. 
Cross examination should be avoided. 
Even where confessions are obtained independent proof should be sought. 
Suspects should be offered refreshments and allowed use of toilet facilities as required. 
Aborigines not be interrogated when drunk or tired or for unduly long periods. 
Legal assistance be obtained if sought by the Aborigines. 
The honourable justices considered that these guidelines, as laid down in their judgment, should be adhered to as is evidenced on page 2 thereof, and I quote: 
It seems to me now, however, to be important that the Court should put on record, general guidelines for the conduct of police officers when interrogating Aboriginal persons, and to warn police, that material departure from these guidelines, will probably lead to the evidence of the interrogation, whether it be oral, or in the form of a record of interview, being rejected. 
In other words, these three jurists who are, should we say, right in the thick of things, have promulgated their own 'judges rules', as they recognised the disadvantages which in most cases would be suffered by my people. 
If there are those honourable senators who are thinking that the proposed Bill is weighted in favour of the Aborigines and Islanders and gives them an advantage over other Australians, then 1 would again draw freely on the learned Judge Forster, who says on page 9 of his reasons for judgment: 
It may be thought by some that these guidelines are unduly paternal, and therefore offensive to Aboriginal people. It may be thought by others that they are unduly favourable to Aboriginal people. The truth of the matter is that they are designed simply to remove or obviate some of the disadvantages from which Aboriginal people suffer in their dealings with police. These guidelines are not absolute rules, departure from which will necessarily lead to statements being excluded, but police officers who depart from them without reason, may find statements are excluded. 
In other words,  Mr Justice  Forster has gone as far as he can in his court and has locally dealt with the accepted conduct of police investigations of offences alleged to have been committed by Aborigines. We in this Parliament fortunately can go further and make this Bill law and give the necessary teeth to his honour's recommendations. I pray that this will be the case. 
Some honourable senators might think that this Bill provides a haven for hardened criminals. However, I submit that this would not be so. These people, I understand, do not make oral or written confessions to the police. However, there is another group who may orally indicate implication in the offence, but after a remand period in gaol, where they are 'tutored ' by more experienced hands, later deny in court that the oral confession was ever in fact made. This Bill, when passed into law, should remedy that situation. The special need experienced by Aborigines and Islanders in respect of oral and written confessions springs out of a real difficulty they experience when conversing in English; a real ignorance as to their civil rights; a real ignorance of the law, and a different set of social values. Any barrister who has cross-examined or interrogated an Aborigine or Islander in court will be aware that there is also an underlying tendency in many cases for the Aborigine or Islander witnesses to say what he thinks the questioner would like to hear by way of answer. This tendency may spring out of a social insecurity felt in a foreign environment, compounded by a willingness to please. Also, vague language by way of answer can often times be equally given to mutually contradictory questions. It is for this reason that the authorised person needs to be one who has had some experience in dealing with Aborigines and Islanders, has empathy for us Aborigines and Islanders and our culture and has knowledge of the law, or at least knowledge as to the provisions of this Bill. 
The provisions of this Bill apply only to offences which entail 6 months imprisonment, or more, as a maximum penalty. There has been excluded, by section 4(2) and (3) of this Bill, any interrogation which is carried out in a manner specifically authorised and required by any Act of any State parliament, or other Act of this Parliament. This is to ensure that minor matters, such as traffic offences- where a person may be obliged to give his name and address and certain other information- and inquiries specifically authorised for example under bankruptcy legislation, do not have to comply with this Bill. The Bill is intended for the great bulk of criminal prosecutions which are today before our courts, and in which a relatively free hand has been given to date to the investigators. I repeat again, this Bill is not designed to hamper, nor will it hamper, proper investigations. It is designed to ensure that lawful conduct by police officers is efficiently carried out in respect to Aborigines and Islanders. For this reason, I commend the Bill to the Senate and submit that it merits the universal support of all senators. 
I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate. I am always amused and sometimes rather disappointed when I listen to Opposition senators in their ramblings about proposals of the present Government.  Senator Walsh  mentioned that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had made a statement some time ago. That is correct. The Prime Minister stated that the Government would retain Medibank, and the Government has done just that. However, it has introduced many improvements and that, I am sure, is welcomed by all senators in this chamber and by the community at large. That is what these 3 Bills are all about; that is what this debate is all aboutimprovements proposed by the Government. I would like to go on record as personally congratulating the Minister for Health, the  Hon.  Ralph Hunt, and the Government for what they have been able to salvage. Once again we in Government have had to salvage a scheme after the 3 years of the Labor Government's reign. This is what we are trying to do in relation to the high rate of unemployment and the economic situation in this country which resulted from 3 years of incompetence from the previous Government. 
It had its grandiose scheme for national health for all people in this nation. It was to be free to everybody, but there is no such thing as a free health scheme for everyone. Somewhere, sometime, someone must pay. The only equitable method of paying for it is to apply the principle that the user must pay in accordance with his or her capacity to pay. I learnt very early in my life that you have to pay and work for anything you want. Unfortunately, members of the Opposition seem to think that money grows on trees and that government revenue is a bottomless pit. The way Medibank was headed, we would have required a bottomless revenue pit to pay for it. The Medibank scheme introduced by this Governmentthis competent Government- gives the Australian community freedom of choice which I am sure to all Australians is the basis of democracy. We pride ourselves that we still live in a democratic country. 
Medibank naturally will have to compete with the private health funds but it will compete on equal terms and on an even footing. There will be no favouritism for either Medibank or the private health schemes. As we all know, competition is healthy and ensures a much better end product to the consumer. Surely even members of the Opposition would want a better service and better delivery of service to the consumer. This is exactly what will be achieved by the Government's proposed scheme. Medibank offers full medical and hospital packages at costs which are realistic and which compete fairly with private funds. What more can we ask for than that? We live in a free enterprise system of which I am proud to be part despite the fact that there are members of the Opposition who would like to see everything socialised and all of us responsible to big brother who would be looking over our shoulders. That is not what we on this side of the chamber believe in: We believe that there should be fair and equitable competition in the provision of all services, including the delivery of medical services to the community. 
When we were in Opposition we considered that the original Medibank concept did away with the basic freedom of the individual to choose. That is something that I, along with the rest of my fellow Australians, cherish. As a matter of fact, we were involved in 2 World Wars on just that issue, the right of the individual to choose. The right to choose, whether it be in the field of medicine, of job opportunities or whatever, is of prime importance. I want to be able to choose my own doctor if I go to hosiptal. I want to be able to choose the kind of hospital that I go into. If I want to go into a private hospital then I have the right so to choose. If I want to go into a public hospital, again that is my right. It is my right to go into the hospital of my choice. If I want my private doctor, my family doctor who has taken care of me, my wife and my children, my doctor who I am confident will be able to look after me when I am in hospital, I have that right. That is what people can get under this scheme as proposed by the present Government. In the past the private health funds were free of competition but with the introduction of our Medibank it will be a competitive matter, not as it was under the previous arrangements. The private funds will have to look to ways of increasing their efficiency and decreasing their overheads to remain viable and to be able to deliver to the community an attractive health package at a realistic cost. Again that is what free enterprise is all about. The people must have this. I am very confident that under our proposals Medibank will be administered efficiently and in such a manner as to be the watch-dog of the private funds, and I do not think we can ask more than that. 
There are many people within the community who perhaps will not be able to afford to pay for a health scheme of any kind but the Government in its wisdom has taken care of this. Aged persons who are retired, on a pension, will not have to pay anything at all. They will still be entitled to everything free. Low income earners with families who through no fault of their own will not be able to afford to pay into a private fund will not be deprived under the present Government's arrangements; they will be looked after. But those who can afford to pay for insurance cover will be able either to stay in Medibank and pay for all the things that they want or join a private scheme and pay the extra insurance to get the extra sevices that they want or which are important to them. I believe that is again a part of the democratic system in which we live. Even though there are many people in the community who will need to be assisted I believe it is right and proper that people should pay for any extras that they want. If I want a new suit I can go into a shop and buy either a very expensive suit or a cheap one, but again it is a matter of what I want. If I want the extra quality then I must pay for it. I feel this is right and just in this country under our system. 
It is not the Government's intention to emasculate Medibank nor is it the intention to force private health funds out of business by unfair competition from a Government-controlled body. Rather the intention is to promote a good health service for all Australians at reasonable cost. There is nothing wrong with that. If Opposition supporters can find something wrong with that kind of thinking and that kind of action then I am at a loss to understand their brand of thinking. No one will, dispute that health costs are increasing throughout the world. It is common sense that a government could not be expected to pick up the increasing tab. As I said earlier, the Government does not have a bottomless pit from which it can draw money. The money that the Government has comes from the taxpayers and it has the responsibility of ensuring that that money is spent wisely arid in the best interests of the community at large. The cost to Consolidated Revenue of maintaining Medibank in its original form would have been enormous and naturally this would eventually have been passed back to the taxpayers. We would have had to increase taxes in some way or another to be able to pay for it. Again, as I said earlier - 
As I said earlier,  Senator McLaren,  there is nothing free in any kind of health service; you have to pay for it whether you like it or not. If Medibank as it was introduced on 1 July 1975 had been allowed to remain unaltered then it would have cost somewhere in the vicinity of $2 billion- $2,000m. I dread to think of the consequences that would have had on our economy, an economy which is now only slowly recovering from the pounding it took from 1 972 to 1975 when those honourable senators who now sit opposite played fast and loose with our economy. Let them deny it. 

 -Let Senator McLaren deny the truth of my statement. He cannot deny it because the inflation is there for all to see. The government he supported brought it about and was unable to do anything about it. There were allegations that this scheme was also subject to rip-offs and abuse by some doctors and over-use by patients. We heard something about that from  Senator Georges  on behalf of the Opposition. I must agree with my colleague,  Senator Walters,  that the only sensible thing that  Senator Georges  said earlier was when he explained to us that nothing is free. I must give him a pat on the back for that. It is the first time I have heard him make any great deal of sense in this chamber. 
-He probably will be but I hope not because he is not a bad sort of a guy. The Government has shown that it has in mind that pensioners, the infirm and the low income earners should be provided with a health service at no cost to them, and surely those on the other side of the Senate, including  Senator Georges,  could not object to this relief to those who are genuinely in need. 
-Thank you very much. I am glad you agree on some points that we make. The imposition of the levy allows funds to be channelled into other major social reforms. One such reform was introduced in this chamber by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I refer to the new family allowances. Another, introduced in the other place, was in respect of personal income indexation. 
If you had listened to me instead of cackling you might have been able to follow the trend of what I was saying. These 2 reforms rightly divert money away from the Government directly to the mothers and to the breadwinners. I hope that I will not be imposing on your leniency,  Mr President,  by saying that since the introduction of the family allowances I have had the opportunity of seeing the difference this has meant to many families throughout my State of Queensland. As a matter of fact I have seen the effects of it even on my own quite large family structure. 
The position now is that every Australian will have the right to stay in Medibank, to choose private insurance, to go to the hospital of his own choice or to have the doctor of his own choice. As I said earlier, that is a very important thing to the Australian, who is a freedom lover, who likes to be able to make his own choice and who likes to be able to feel that he is free to do within the law the things that he wants to do. I emphasise the words 'within the law'. Those who remain in Medibank will be covered for 85 per cent of medical fees. Doctors will be asked to continue their undertaking to accept this 85 per cent as full payment for services renedered to eligible pensioners. 
Despite what  Senator Georges  had to say this evening about doctors, I have far more faith in doctors in this country than he has. I have no doubt that like any other profession- and I suppose politics is a profession- the medical profession has unscrupulous members. But generally speaking the medical profession of this country deserves our respect and admiration. Members of the profession have dedicated their lives to the service of humanity. Someone interjected and said we pay for it. Of course we pay for it. But so do the doctors in terms of their dedication and in their service to humanity. 1 am not one to knock doctors. I think they have done a magnificent job. Under our scheme I believe that the Australian people generally will be far better off than they have been for a long time. I certainly support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce who has as part of his responsibilities the tourist industry. Is the Minister aware that the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Board on Tourism reveals that the number of visitors to Parliament House fell from 250 705 in 1972 to 208 705 in 1975, a drop of almost 20 per cent? Can the Minister, who no doubt has his finger firmly on the pulse in regard to all the matters covered by his portfolio, tell the Senate whether any departmental or any other sort of inquiry has been held to establish the cause of that drastic reduction in the number of visitors and whether it is perhaps an indication of the disgust of the Australian population at the activities of the Labor Government during that period? 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, m Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of the Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass land rights legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sights, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in land councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest itself be reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words, under the sessional order it is not able to be read to the Senate, but the full text of the petition will be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Can he tell the Senate the difference between the present Government's policy under  Mr Fraser  and the policy of the previous Government under  Mr Whitlam  in relation to East Timor? 
-I wish to support the Leader of the Government in the  Senator (Senator Withers)  in his motion of condolence to the late Ivor Greenwood I deem it a great personal honour and privilege to have known this great Australian. He was not just a colleague to me, but a friend. I knew him to be a warm hearted, compassionate and generous person. My first meeting with Ivor Greenwood was when I came to this place in 1971. I had not known him prior to that. He was younger than I but treated me as an older brother would. He took me under his wing, as it were, and counselled and guided my early steps in this chamber. I always found him to be generous in the time that he gave, although I never knew a more hard working man. He always had time to give to those who sought his counsel. He gave of his friendship generously and unstintingly to all who sought it. When I look around this chamber this afternoon and see the sombreness of those in tendance, I am sure that passing through all of our minds is the thought that amidst life there is death. A fine Australian has been cut down in the prime of life. He had so much to contribute not only to the debates in this chamber but also to Australia and to its people. As has been said by my Leader, he was a strong person in debate. He entered into debate with zest and zeal. He sought no quarter, and my gosh he gave none. But that was Ivor Greenwood, because anything that he took on, he took on with the strong and firm belief that what he was fighting for was right and in the best interests of the Australian people. I join with my Leader in proffering condolences to his wife and children. I pray that God will give them the strength and courage that they so sorely need at this time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Can the Minister confirm that an instruction was given by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the Aboriginal and Island Legal Service that Aboriginal people are now subject to a means test to determine their eligibility for legal aid from the service? If the Minister does not have the answer to hand will she treat the matter as urgent, as many Aboriginal people could suffer from that instruction? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will recall that last night I asked a question in relation to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service. It has been claimed that Aborigines will now be subjected to a means test to determine their eligibility for legal aid. Can the Minister throw any further light on this problem? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the 
Capital Territory. Can the Minister inform the Senate what happened to the ordinance that was used in 1972 to remove the Aboriginal Embassy from the lawns in front of Parliament House? Can that ordinance now be used to remove those people who have set themselves up in a tent in front of Parliament House, or is it possible that there is an ordinance for Aborigines and another ordinance for non-Aborigines? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory aware of an article which appeared in the  Northern Territory News  in Darwin on Friday, 15 October, concerning the slaughter of some 500 head of cattle on the Daly River Wildlife Sanctuary? It was alleged in this article that the animals were shot by a wildlife ranger about 10 days ago. 
Will the Minister have this matter thoroughly investigated and ensure that the Aboriginal owners of these cattle, the Aboriginal grazing group known as the Unia Association and Tiperary Station, are fully compensated for such a stupid act by a ranger. 
I want to make a rather small contribution to the Committee's consideration this evening of the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, particularly in the light of some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Department in relation to the hire or leasing of a hovercraft to service the Torres Strait Island people. I will not go into the pros and cons of whether the Department was unwise in what it did in relation to that expenditure on behalf of the Torres Strait people. What I do feel is that, regardless of whether that expenditure may not have been wisely made by the Department, it highlights, in my opinion, the concern of the Department and the Director of that Department at the lack of transport facilities and means of communication available to the people of the Torres Strait Islands. That matter finds sympathy not only with me but also with members of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders on which I served for some considerable time and which was looking into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Some of those honourable senators who have served on that Committee are in the chamber tonight. 
That Committee found that there is a great need and a very important need in the Torres Strait Islands for better surface transport facilities for the people of the Torres Strait Islands, as well as there being a very urgent and great need for better communication facilities for those people who live on those islands in the Torres Strait and who are isolated from the rest of Australia. Our Committee investigated these problems and brought down a report on them. I believe it is appropriate that I mention tonight some of the recommendations made by that Committee. I refer in particular to those on pages 1 1 to 1 3 of the Committee 's report. 
We found that there was an urgent need in the Torres Strait Islands. We recommended that the inter-island surface transport network be upgraded to provide better direct movement of passengers and of adequate amounts of cargo between the islands. As a result of its investigations the Committee found- I found this also from making several trips to the Torres Strait Islands and by talking to the people up therethat there is one government boat that services the communities on a number of islands. I think it services 16 islands all told. Although the boat does go to all these islands, its visits are very infrequent. The accommodation on the boat is not adequate for the island people. While the accommodation for VIPs, such as the Director of Aboriginal Affairs, or the Premier, or the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who are travelling to the islands may be very adequate and comfortable, that is not so in the case of accommodation for the people who live on those islands. They have to sleep on the deck, They do not have proper accommodation. There is very little accommodation for perishable goods on this particular boat that travels to these island communities. So our Committee recommended that that transport network be upgraded. 
Whilst we appreciate the Queensland Government's position- it perhaps does not have the means to provide this accommodation- we believe that the Federal Government should make available a subsidy or the kind of finance which will provide that facility for a group of people who are proudly Australian citizens. That fact has been highlighted during the controversy of the change of our border with Papua New Guinea in the Torres Strait. They want to remain Australians. Unfortunately, because of certain circumstances that exist in that area, they are not being treated like other Australians because of the inadequate transport facility available to them and because of many other matters that the Committee looked at. 
Some but not all of these islands have an airstrip, but they are not all weather airstrips. So our Committee recommended that the existing airstrips be improved to strips of all weather standard so that at least some of the islands will be serviced and so that the people who live on those islands will have the opportunity to leave, whether it be a case of wanting to go for a holiday, whether it be a case of need for urgent medical attention, or whether it be some other case. There are a number of recommendations in our report. The recommendations which deal with various aspects of improving conditions for the people on the Torres Strait Islands are numbered from 12 to 20. I thought that I should make some contribution tonight on behalf of the Torres Strait Island people. Although there has been some criticism of the Department's expenditure of money on a hovercraft, I believe that it was done in good faith and shows the concern of the Director of the Department and of his departmental officers. Whilst we may feel inclined to criticise the expenditure, let us hope that in the future something more constructive will be done in relation to surface transport and communications for the people of the Torres Strait Islands. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that the governments of the United States and Russia are currently attempting to negotiate a treaty to deal with the arbitration of international business disputes? If the Minister is so aware, can he inform the Senate whether the Commonwealth Government intends entering the negotiations with the express view of becoming a party thereto and, if so, what benefits does the Minister foresee that Australian business will derive from such a move? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What is the position regarding pensioners who are entitled to a pensioner health benefit card and therefore are exempt from paying the Medibank levy for coverage by Medibank Standard but who wish to take out extra cover through either Medibank Private or a private health fund? If a pensioner who is exempt from paying the Medibank levy wants to arrange for snared accommodation or for a private bed in a private hospital, are special tables available which allow that person to pay the extra amount required without having to pay for the basic coverage to which he is automatically entitled? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I applaud the Minister for Health for his foresight in setting up a mobile hospital staffed by a full surgical team and equipped with a sterile operating theatre on the Amata reserve in South Australia for the sole purpose of treating and containing the rampant spread of eye disease among the Aboriginal people of that area. In view of the undoubted success of this scheme, can the Minister give an assurance that further such units will be set up to deal with this disease, which is peculiar to my race, in all other remote areas of Australia where the density of Aboriginal population warrants it? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. In view of the fact that the Government of Great Britain has set up a data protection committee to investigate the best manner for that country to legislate on computer privacy, does the Commonwealth Government also intend to draft legislation aimed at protecting the privacy of the individual against possible abuse by national computer agencies, with their seemingly unlimited memory banks of personal and private information? If this has not been considered, would not the Minister agree that now would be the appropriate time to initiate such legislation to protect our citizens, when our computer systems are still in their infancy? 
-My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Acting Minister for National Resources or the Minister representing Acting Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask: Is either of the Ministers aware that the Iranian Government recently cancelled a US$5.6 billion project to export liquefied gas to the United States and Europe, the American company named being the El Paso Natural Gas Company? If so, has either of the Ministers explored the feasibility of further developing our country's reputed vast reserves of this commodity on a viable basis so as to capture part of the lucrative overseas market in the United States and selected European nations, thereby providing a further valuable international market for Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of the recent report that there are alleged to be 2 valuable antique clocks stored in the Sydney Observatory? The clocks in question are reputed to have been brought to Australia by Governor Brisbane. I ask: Will the Minister check the authenticity of this report and, if it is correct, will he then ensure that these valuable items of our early heritage are displayed in such a place and in such a manner to enable them to be viewed and enjoyed by all interested Australians? May I be so bold as to suggest that my State capital, named after Governor Brisbane, would be a suitable location. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Russians have embarked on the highly successful venture of producing a caviar substitute from casein? 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Is the Minister aware that the caviar so produced is very palatable and extremely rich in protein? In view of the limited quantity of natural caviar available and the increaing world demand for it, will the Minister investigate the viability of a similar substitute commodity being produced in Australia for local and overseas markets from our abundance of milk, with the aim of further assisting our dairy industry? I do not think that is a laughing matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I preface it by drawing the Minister's attention to the annual report for 1975-76 of the Director-General of Health, in particular the statistics appearing therein which support the statement that alcohol is a major factor in more than 3000 deaths each year in the Australian community. In view of this appalling and needless waste of Australian lives, will the Minister inform the Senate of the success, if any, which has resulted from the adaptation of the list of actions quoted in this report? I refer to those approved recently by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
-As I rise to enter this debate I am mindful of words I read very recently and attributed to Father Patrick O'sullivan, Provincial of the Society of Jesus in Australia. Referring to the Bill before us this evening, he used these words:  . . one of the most historical, important parliamentary Acts we shall see during our lifetime 
In the capacity of both a senator and an Aborigine, I am compelled from the depth of my very soul to agree with Father O'sullivan. 
I first spoke at any length in this House on 8 September 1971 when I hesitatingly delivered my maiden speech. I shall quote from that speech. I said: 

 Mr President, I crave your indulgence and the indulgence of honourable senators in that for a very short dme all within me that is Aboriginal yearns to be heard as the voice of the indigenous people of Australia. For far too long we have been crying out and far too few have heard us. 
Part of this applies yet today. I yearn to be heard as the voice of the Aborigine but- I emphasise the word 'but '-Mr  President,  in my opinion there has been a great reformation from that day in 1971 when I spoke of my people crying out and far too few heeding our calling. For proudly I say,  Sir, that  both sides of this Senate have heeded. It certainly was not always smooth sailing. In fact, during past years at times I, as the lone Aboriginal parliamentarian, thought it would be spears and nulla-nullas at 10 paces. But honourable senators heeded and the Senate proved that it cared. Honourable senators, I believe that you really cared, particularly on 19 September 1974 when after reasonable and healthy debate but without dissent you accepted my motion: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people and introduce legislation- 
I emphasise that- to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
While my people and I still await what we consider to be compensation for dispossession we are overjoyed that members of this enlightened chamber recognised that we were in possession of this entire nation prior to the advent of their forefathers.  Mr President  and honourable senators, approximately 27 000 fellow Aborigines in the tribal situation in the Northern Territory, those who are the inheritors of your recognised prior ownership, now desire their traditional land to be safeguarded by the Bill before the Senate. My brother Aborigines look to you,  Sir, and  to honourable senators and we ask you- we even beg, if necessary- for justice. 
What is land, earth, and all that it entails? To an Aborigine in the tribal situation it is almost impossible to define. It goes far beyond the somewhat coldly calculated white man's concept. Land ownership to my fellow tribal Aborigines is a continuing dynamic motion and is not,  Sir, bounded  by the geographical limits of a government surveyor. It is a living entity made up of earth, sky, clouds, rivers, trees, rocks and the spirit which created all these things. Land is their everything. In my wallet on a piece of paper, worn and somewhat faded now, are written certain words. I present them to you,  Sir, and  to honourable senators for I feel the verse best sums up literally the affinity existing between an Aborigine, particularly in the tribal sense, and his land. It is taken from the  Rubaiyat  of Omar Khayyam. It reads: 
My body's life and strength alone thou art; 
My heart and soul art thou, 
Oh! Soul and heart! 
Thou art my being; and I am thou; 
Since I in thee depart. 
Those words were written a long time ago. Perhaps in this chamber this evening the white people will have some concept of what land means to my fellow Aborigines. 
In about the middle of this year the Honourable Ian Viner introduced the land rights Bill into the lower House. He in his wisdom and the Government in its collective wisdom decided that the Bill should lie on the table to allow proper debate and to give an opportunity to all people who were interested and concerned in this issue- Aborigine and non-Aborigine- to look at the Bill, to examine it, to assess it and to bring to the Minister any points that they wanted to raise. I have here with me only a minute part of the material that was sent to me by interested people throughout the length and breadth of this nation. My file would be almost a foot thick. I will not be like  Senator Keeffe  and have it all incorporated in  Hansard.  Enough of that has been done today. The Government, to show its concern, also appointed  Mr David  Hay to examine and assess all this material and to make recommendations to the Government on certain aspects of what came out of appeals by people. 
For a long time in this chamber, I and many of my concerned colleagues- I want to thank them- have spent hours and hours talking, thrashing out issues and trying to bring about the best Bill we could. Maybe this is not the perfect Bill, but it is a Bill which represents the final recognition by a government that the traditional Aboriginal people, my traditional fellow Aborigines in the Northern Territory, are to be given title to their traditional lands. Perhaps I still have some concern. Perhaps it is because I am an Aborigine who grew up and lived in a fringe dwelling situation and am conscious that many of the things that have been said here tonight have happened to my people. Not only am I concerned but also many of my fellow Aborigines will have some little suspicions because there are many interested people, many people with vested interests in Northern Territory land. So maybe we should have some suspicions and some concern. I would like to quote from the Woodward report, as it sums up why perhaps there will be some suspicions by Aborigines, particularly me- although I hope to be in this chamber for a long time yet and I will be keeping a close watch on what transpires henceforth in relation to this land rights Bill. 
I quote from a section of the Woodward report which sums up what has happened to Aborigines since 1788. It says: 
Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory were established for the protection of Aborigines. The larger reserves consisted of land which was either unsuitable or not then required for white settlement. 
I hope we all take note of the words: 
The larger reserves consisted of land which was either unsuitable or not then required for white settlement. 
The report continues: 
The small reserves were established to meet particular needs. 
In most cases there has been a complicated history of proclamations, revocations, fresh proclamations, resumptions of part for other purposes and so on. In some cases doubts have arisen as to the boundaries or legal status of reserves. However there seems to be no point in exploring these problems; provided Aborigines are finally given tide to land described by geographic boundaries and not by past history, no difficulties should arise. 
That is the history of land which was set aside in my own State of Queensland and in other States of the Commonwealth for Aboriginal people when it had no commercial value, no minerals and nothing else for the white man. Immediately minerals were found or the white man saw it as good agriculture land or good land on which to graze cattle or sheep it was resumed. It was no longer reserve. It went back to the white man. However, at long last, under the terms of this Bill this will not happen again. It will not happen because the Aborigines will be given title to the land. It will be theirs. 
My time is running short; but I want to refer for a moment to the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Cavanagh,  who grandstanded quite a lot and threw out some very strong challenges. He was a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the previous Government. He was regarded by Aborigines as a disaster in Aboriginal affairs. As a matter of fact, one Aborigine called him the Minister for white backlash' when in this chamber he did everything he possibly could to prevent me from moving a motion in respect of compensation for dispossession. He said then that it represented only an expression of opinion, but it stated quite categorically: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay and urged the Australian Government to . . . introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
He was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at the time and he did not take that motion to his Government in the other place. He did not follow that motion through, and it went into limbo. That Government, this Opposition, this Australian Labor Party, which was supposed to be the champion of the Aborigines- 
Debate interrrupted. 
I just want to clarify one thing that  Senator Keeffe  said in case there is any misapprehension. He referred to Palm Island and a street called Mango Avenue. He said that the Aboriginal people who lived there, as I did, were not permitted to walk down Mango Avenue and that a lot of money was spent on the upkeep of it. At that time I happened to be the overseer of works on Palm Island. I remind  Senator Keeffe  that that situation was changed with the change of government in Queensland. That was a law under a Labor government, and when the Liberal and Country Parties took government it was changed. 
I had no intention of again entering the debate on this clause but I cannot let go the comments by  Senator Keeffe  in relation to my colleague  Senator Chaney. Senator Chaney  is a person whom I hold in high regard and respect and I attribute a lot of the achievements of this Bill to the hard work of  Senator Chaney.  I rebut the accusation by  Senator Keeffe  that  Senator Chaney  was making racist remarks. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. As the performances of Australian athletes at the last Olympiad have now been analysed and I understand are in the process of being studied by the Government with the intention of endeavouring to improve our standards with better training methods and facilities and greater Government sponsorship of overseas competition, will the Minister consider supplying to all sporting bodies comprehensive literature denouncing the use of anabolic steriods by many overseas countries to achieve questionable improvement in their athletes' performances, with scant or no consideration of the present controversy raging in medical circles as to the long term injurious effects on such athletes? I urge the publication of this material on 2 grounds; firstly and most importantly, to protect the health and well being of our young men and women and, secondly, to ensure that at least the Australian athlete will be able to exhibit all the high ideals of true amateurism and not be tempted to succumb to this outright cheating by the use of drugs to attain tainted international honours. 
Last evening I pointed out that the former Government could have accepted my motion on compensation for dispossession which was carried by the Senate. The former Government could have implemented some of the recommendations contained in my speech to that motion. Unfortunately the then Government did not see fit to do that. I shall not pursue the matter at this stage. But I feel that it is relevant now to point out those facts to the Senate and to members of the former Government. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Government have stated categorically that the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill must be passed by this Parliament this session. I am proud to say that the Government places a great deal of importance on what this Bill means to my people and intends to keep faith with them. I intend to do nothing to prevent that from happening. I agree with the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that this is an important Bill, the passage of which means keeping faith with the Aboriginal community of this nation. Much can be said of the Bill. Some concern has been expressed about it. As I said during my speech last evening, this Bill is perhaps not the ultimate or the best. Perhaps there are provisions in it which are not in accordance with the thinking of some people. But it is a Bill of great significance. I want to see it passed by this House. I had hoped that a bipartisan approach to this important Bill would have been adopted by all members of this chamber. 
We, the Aboriginal people of this country, have known many atrocities and much suffering in the past. We are conscious of what we have been deprived and of our dispossession. But Aboriginal people in their natural habitat are a kind, gentle people. We are now seeking compensation. Some of us are demanding compensation. We want this compensation. We want recognition of our entitlements. But we want to retain our former attitudes. We do not want to do what white men did to us. We want to work in harmony. I believe that my elders in the tribal situation in the Northern Territory would wish this. We do not want to dispossess other people. We do not want to force on other people that which was forced on us, but we do want what is rightfully ours and we want just treatment in whatever is to happen in relation to land rights in the Northern Territory. 
I have sat as a member of this chamber for some 5Vi years now. I say to  Senator Cavanagh  that, in that 5Vi years, I have never seen one member of the Australian Labor Party vote against his Party. He follows directly down the Party line because he dares do nothing else. Members of the Opposition have constantly challenged members on this side of the chamber to do what they do not have the courage to do. On occasion, I have practised my right of conscience and I have taken that short walk across the chamber. I have never seen a member of the Labor Party do that. I have never seen  Senator Cavanagh  do it. Surely being human beings- being people- we must have a conscience and there must be times when our consciences differ from our party view. But honourable senators on the other side of the chamber are not prepared to take that action. Yet they challenge us to do what they do not have the courage to do. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs foreshadowed a motion in the other place for the establishment of a joint parliamentary committee comprising the 8 members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and 6 senators- three from the Government and three from the Opposition. The motion provides that the committee be required to report by 3 1 May 1 977 and that it should have the following terms of reference: Firstly, to examine and report on the operation of the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of such owners to the satisfaction of the relevant land councils; secondly, the adequacy of provisions of the law of the Northern Territory relating to entry to Aboriginal land, the protection of sacred and significant sites, wildlife conservation and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land; and, thirdly, any other matters referred by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
I will be nominating to be a member of that committee. I hope that members of the Opposition also will nominate to be on that committee. Then we will be able to examine this Bill and make sure that the spirit of it is carried out, we will be able to examine what the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is proposing in these very important areas in relation to complementary legislation, we will be able to ensure that the Aboriginal commissions are doing their jobs satisfactorily, that they are the servants of the traditional owners and that they will be working to ensure that the rights of the traditional owners are preserved, and we will be able to exercise an oversight to ensure that the Aboriginal people, that my tribal elders in the Northern Territory, will have their lands and that their lands will be protected. As I said last evening, I intend to stay in this chamber, God willing, for a long time yet. I, as the lone Aboriginal voice in this Parliament, together with my colleagues- men like Fred Chaney, Peter Baume, Alan Missen and quite a few others who have shown a great concern in regard to this Bill and who will be supporting me- will be watching very closely the implementation of this land rights Bill to ensure that my people are not deprived of that to which they are rightly and justly entitled. 
For a short time, a very short time, I would like to address myself to the members of my race. I am proud to say that some of them are sitting in the galleries today. I was very proud last evening when I saw a particular gentleman sitting in the galleries. I direct myself to the presence of Professor Stanner, a man who has fought for years for land rights for and just treatment of the Aboriginal people. As I have said, I would like to address myself for a short time to my own people. I ask them not to be fooled and not to be taken in by the grandstanding that sometimes takes place in this chamber and outside of it. 

 - Senator Ryan, when you have lived as an Aborigine and have been subjected to all the things to which Aborigines have been subjected, you can point the finger at me, but until that time all I ask of you is that you hear me. I say to my own people: Do not be fooled. Do not be deceived. We have been deceived in the past and I am sure that there will be attempts to deceive us again. I assure my people that what I do in this chamber and outside of it is what my conscience dictates to be in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. I will continue to carry the flag, as it were, and I will continue to fight for just and fair treatment for my people. 
This debate will continue into the Committee stage of the consideration of the Bill. I hope that during the course of this day this Bill will be passed and become law. At long last some of the Aboriginal people of this country will then receive their just rights. As I said earlier today or last night, this Bill is only catering for some 27 000 Aborigines. 
-Why do you not listen to what I am saying,  Senator Coleman?  It is only catering for 27 000 Aborigines. There are 160 000-plusofus. 
-There are 160 000-plus of us. If you will be patient and listen to what I have to say I am sure that you will agree with me when I say that this Bill is only catering for approximately 27 000 Aborigines. In this country there are 160 000 people who, under the terms of my motion, are entitled to compensation for dispossession. Whilst I am proud that 27 000 of my people are being catered for, I say to this chamber and to this nation that the time has come when the remainder of that 160 000-plus have to be recognised and compensated for their dispossession. 
During the course of the speech in which I moved my motion I referred to many things pertaining to compensation for dispossession. I suggested that the time had come when the Government must recognise the fact that the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders were once in possession of this nation and should introduce legislation to compensate the said indigenous people for the loss of their land. This has notappened. All that has happened is that Aborigines have been the recipients of charity- charity of the government of the day. We have seen examples of that on so many occasions. When I became a member of this Senate in 1971 the Liberal-National Country Party Government was in office. It allocated money for what was termed Aboriginal advancement. When the Australian Labor Party came to office it allocated money for Aboriginal advancement. 
There have been changes of government since then. There has been an increase and then there has been a decrease. Who knows what will happen next if we continue under the system that exists at the moment? What will happen in the future is that as governments change and the attitudes of people change, so will the amount of money allocated for Aborigines change, according to the will of the government of the day or its sympathy or non-sympathy or whatever the case may be. But, under the terms of my motion, the setting up of a compensation fund to be administered by competent Aborigines, the setting up of a statutory body, would enable Aborigines to use the money to which they are justly entitled in compensation for their dispossession of almostexcept for that provided for under this Bill- the entire nation. This nation has to answer that question some day, and the sooner the better. Professor Colin Tass wrote an article on this subject just recently. I think all members of this chamber should read it because much, if not all, of what he said is true. The matters that he pointed to as being things that could happen in the near future also bear listening to. I am happy that a section of the Aboriginal community is being catered for under this Bill. I will not be satisfied and I know that thinking Aborigines will never be satisfied until the governments of this country recognise Aborigines as the original owners of this entire nation and bring in compensation for dispossession. I will look to that day and I will continue to work for that day. I support the Bills and hope that they will be carried this day. 
I rise because of my disappointment, I suppose, at the lack of understanding by Opposition supporters as to what this Bill is all about. This Bill deals with traditional Aboriginal people making traditional claims to traditional lands. Sure there are fringe dwellers. There are fringe dwellers in every city and town throughout the length and breadth of Australia and governments up until now have taken no account of them, but fortunately under the present Government an Aboriginal Lands Trust is able to look after the fringe dweller in the situation Opposition supporters are talking about. Fringe dwelling Aborigines can apply to the Trust to have the land purchased and handed to them. This has nothing whatever to do with this Bill which is dealing with tribal Aboriginal people- people who have traditional claims to traditional land. I cannot understand why the Opposition is trying to make out that we are not concerned for the fringe dwellers. I am concerned with them because I am of a fringe dwelling situation and want to see it taken care of not only in the Northern Territory in Alice Springs and in Darwin but also throughout the length and breadth of Australia. I am glad that in the Northern Territory at least the fringe dwelling situations there can be looked after under the Trust which has $lm, as I understand it at the moment. The Trust can purchase land around Alice Springs and hand it to the fringe dwelling people. It is not necessary to incorporate this amendment in this Bill. 
I think the matter has been explained very clearly. If a national road runs through some land which the Aboriginal people claim, they cannot actually claim the road that passes through that land. I think that is fair and just. If national roads and recognised roads, on which the general public has travelled over the years, run through land on which the Aboriginal people make a claim, I think it is fair enough that they are not able to claim that actual strip of land on which the road is built. I see no complications in that situation. 
I cannot go along with the Opposition in wanting to delete this clause. I agree with many of the reasons stated by  Senator Missen.  The clause states in part: 
. but any such Ordinance has effect to the extent only that it is capable of operating concurrently with the laws of the Commonwealth, and, in particular, with this Act . . . 
As far as I am concerned those words meet the situation, particularly in view of the fact that a parliamentary committee will be set up. I have nominated to be on that committee and am sure that there will be others of my colleagues, apart from Opposition senators, who will also be nominating to be on that committee. That committee will ensure that the spirit of this Bill is preserved by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I did not intend to enter this debate again, but I have been prompted to do so after hearing the cackling of  Senator McLaren-  which, I suppose, because of his background, is appropriate - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I remind the Committee that parliamentary language is characterised by good temper and moderation. I suggest that we remember that. 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I bow to your ruling. This clause gives certain responsibilities to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Because it is in keeping with the Liberal-National Country Party philosophy of co-operative federalism, I think it is appropriate. We are giving the Legislative Assembly certain powers in relation to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. I believe it is quite right that we should do that, because we have placed certain safeguards on it. I said earlier that it is written into the Bill that no ordinance of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in this area can operate except concurrently with the laws of the Commonwealth as set out in the Bill we are debating at the moment. On top of that we are setting up a joint parliamentary committee to look at this legislation. 
I am very disturbed by some of the comments that have been made on the Opposition side of the chamber, because at the moment the Legislative Assembly happens to comprise LiberalNational Country Party members. I am just wondering whether the Opposition is conceding that it is possible that the Australian Labor Party will never have a majority in the Legislative Assembly. If at some future time it happens to have a majority, honourable senators opposite are condemning people of their own political faith. They are saying that even they would not adhere to the spirit of the Bill that we are debating at the moment. I think it is rather foolish and rather stupid of the Opposition to say that no Legislative Assembly would be able to carry out these responsibilities of its own accord or of its own wishes, because of feelings it has for the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, regardless of the safeguards which are implicit within this Bill and the committee that will be exercising an oversight of the whole legislation. ' 
-I am bound to rise to my feet on this occasion because  Senator Keeffe  has said that he and his party are disappointed and the Aboriginal people of Australia are disappointed. I question the right of  Senator Keeffe  to say that, because  Senator Keeffe  does not represent all Aborigines. He does not represent the feelings of all Aboriginal people in this country. As a matter of fact, he certainly does not represent my feelings on this particular issue or the feelings of those who support me. I can only say that much of what  Senator Keeffe  has said in relation to my party is a lot of poppycock. The Labor Party has done no more or less than the Liberal-Country parties have done. All government have been at fault in relation to Aboriginal affairs. 
Yesterday  Senator Keeffe  asked the  President  of the Senate to set a precedent because he desired to play some tapes. At this point in time I am tempted to ask you,  Mr Chairman,  to set a precedent and allow me to get into the centre of this chamber and do a corroboree because I believe that today I have something to celebrate and that is the final passing of a land rights Bill that will do much for the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory, those people of whom I am a part. 
I am proud that this Bill has finally come before this chamber and will finally be brought into law. That is much more than the Labor Party has ever done.  Senator Keeffe  talks about the Liberal Party not doing very much for Aborigines. Let us look at those honourable senators who sit on the other side of the chamber. Which one of them is representing the Aborigines? There are certainly no Aborigines among them. They would not give an Aborigine the opportunity of contesting a seat which could be won by the Labor Party. They have never done that in the whole history of the Labor Party, and I do not believe that they are ever likely to do it. Let them put their money where their mouths are. Let them have elected an Aboriginal representative as a member of the Labor Party, whether it is sitting on this side of the chamber or on the other side. I think it will be a long time before the Labor Party will be on this side of the chamber, let alone having an Aboriginal representative. 
The only seat that the Labor Party has ever allowed an Aborigine to contest was a blue ribbon Liberal seat. It knew very well that the Aborigine did not have a chance of winning. That happened in Queensland. That is what the Labor 
Party did to Kath Walker. It did it to the late Harold Blair in Victoria. They are the only Aboriginal people whom the Labor Party has ever allowed to contest a seat, and they were blue ribbon Liberal seats. It is sheer hypocrisy. 
I proudly represent in this chamber the Aboriginal people and the Liberal Party of Queensland and of Australia. I want to pay tribute at this stage to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, who worked very hard to draft a Bill which will finally bring to the Aboriginal people recognition of their rights in Aboriginal affairs and in land rights. I pay him great tribute. I pay tribute also to all my colleagues who have proposed amendments which have made this Bill a good, workable Bill. It is a Bill which I know the Aboriginal people will accept. I accept it. I will work to ensure that the implementation of the Bill is carried out in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. I will be looking to see whether  Senator Keeffe  is a member of the proposed Aboriginal joint committee. I think it will be disappointed. I hoped that  Senator Keeffe  would at least have had the courage to nominate to be a member of that committee. As I understand it, he has declined to do so. 
I feel bound to rise to my feet again to answer  Senator Cavanagh  who stated that I followed directly the Party fine. That is quite inaccurate. As I have proved since coming into this chamber in 1971, I am quite capable of bucking the Party line. I have done that on occasions. I want to state categorically something I have stated many times over the years since I have been a senator I see my responsibilities as a senator representing the State of Queensland, first and foremost to God, secondly to my nation, thirdly to my State and fourthly to my Party, but interwoven through this sequence is my love of race and my burning desire to do whatever I possibly can to advance the cause of my own race of people. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The document read as follows- 

<graphic href="070232197612102_81_0.jpg"></graphic>

Bills agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendments; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister no doubt is well aware of the recent oil spillage around the coast of the United States of Amenca from vessels with rather questionable safety standards. Does the Commowealth Government have the power to ensure that only ships having acceptable safety and crew standards trade in Australian waters? If not, will the Minister give urgent attention to formulating appropriate legislation to achieve this protection of the ecology of our vast shore lines, rich fishing grounds and that wonder of the world, our Great Barrier Reef? 
I am not quite sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister for Education or to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I should be grateful for an answer from the appropriate Minister. Will the Minister inform me as to the extent of the reported drastic cutbacks in Aboriginal study grants and also as to the number of study grants which will be made available this year. I express once more my bitter disappointment at these cutbacks. I should be obliged if the Minister will give me some explanation as to the necessity for this measure. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement of explanation. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, by drawing his attention to the recent meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at which Japan offered to reduce its shipyard production, raise export prices on ships and limit the number of orders taken from European nations whose own shipbuilding industries are in trouble. Can the Minister inform me whether similar proposals have been made in respect to Australia by Japan? If not, should not this nation, as one of Japan's principal trading partners, be entitled to such relief? If such relief is at present being negotiated between our 2 countries, can we then look forward to a brighter future for our shipbuilding industry and those thousands of Australians who are depending upon it? 
I do not wish to take up a great deal of the Senate's time this evening. But the matter that I wish to bring to the notice of the Senate, and perhaps to the Australian people, is of great importance to me. I am saddened that I should have to bring this matter to the attention of the Senate and of the Australian people. I am saddened because of the lack of thought that has been given to this matter by the Australian people. I say that of the Australian people; but, fortunately, at this moment I am able to congratulate the media of this country for highlighting the matter that I wish to bring to the attention of the Austraiian people and the Senate this evening. 

 Mr President, I am sure that you, like myself, read the newspapers and would be aware of the atrocities that have been perpetrated in a nation in Africa called Uganda. I wish to speak about that matter tonight. The  Courier-Mail  of today's date reports: 
Ugandan President Idi Amin shot and killed Anglican Archbishop Janani Luwum, the Government-owned Tanzanian newspaper, the  Dally News,  said yesterday. 
That is the matter I wish to talk about this evening- the atrocities that have been perpetrated against the Ugandan people. I speak of the Christian people in Uganda, the people who follow the teachings of Christ as many of us in this country do. As a black man, as an Australian and as a Christian- although I might be accused by some people of not being a very good practising Christian, I believe that I am a Christian and that I follow the teachings of Christ- tonight, I wish to stand for Christ in what I have to say to this Senate and to the Australian people. I make a plea to all black leaders of the black countries of the world to stand up and to be counted on this matter. I quote from page 4 of one of our Australian newspapers dated Tuesday, 22 February: 
Since coming to power in a coup six years ago, Amin has instituted one of the most brutal regimes ever witnessed on a continent already noted for its savagery. 
Uganda's economy is in ruins, with such staples as salt, sugar and bread hoarded like gold. The River Nile is filled with the bodies of Ugandans who dared to even question Amin 's rule. 
Amnesty International estimates that between 30 000 and 300 000 people have been killed or have simply disappeared in the last six years. 
Early in Amin's reign, his own chief justice was dragged in his robes from his downtown chambers by troops and killed A former foreign minister for Amin disappeared and his body was later found floating in the Nile. 
The Nile and Lake Victoria at one point became so clogged with bodies they were clearly visible at the giant Owen Falls power station and several Italian engineers there quit in disgust in 1973. 
The rule of the gun has become so prevalent in Uganda that many killings are not the result of Amin's directives, but are simply troops settling old scores. Soldiers commandeer everything from cars to girl friends at gunpoint. 
Amin's reign has been as bizarre as it has been deadly. He once dragged a disgraced cabinet minister handcuffed and stripped to the waist into a state reception and beat him in front of guests. 
I have noted protests in this country against many things that have happened in other parts of the world. There were protests in the streets by many people concerning the conquest of Vietnam. There have been protests in the streets against apartheid in South Africa. There have been protests of many kinds- and I have been part of them- at the atrocities that have occurred in a little island just off Australia. I ask tonight: Where are the protests against the reign of terror by this tyrant, Idi Amin of Uganda? 
Unfortunately and sadly, Australia seems to be silent except for the media which has written up the things that have happened in Uganda at the hands of this person who has put himself above God. He has caused such atrocities as the slaying of an Anglican Archbishop because that man dared to speak against him. It seems strange to me that in this world and in this country there are protests when there is oppression of blacks by whites, but unfortunately there is little protest when there are atrocities and oppression of blacks by blacks. 
I think that we fall short in our duty if we do not protest at the highest level against what has happened in Uganda because of the actions of this tyrant. Because of what he has done to the people in Uganda, I cannot find words to describe this man. There are some 3 million black people in Uganda who claim to be and, I believe, are Christians. They follow the teachings of Christ. But their fate is unknown to the world because of the actions  of this man whom  I can only describe as a beast. I hope that, as a black man of this country, my words will go throughout the world and reach out to those leaders of black countries so that they will protest and join the leaders of the churches throughout the world whose voices have been raised against what has happened and what is likely to happen in Uganda. 
I hope that in this chamber tonight the consciences of people who have protested so vehemently against other things that have happened throughout the world will be pricked. Perhaps I am taking something on myself which I have no right to do. Perhaps some people will level criticism at me because this evening I take on the role of leader of the black people of this country. But I do so with great humility and I do so as a Christian following his Christian principles. I raise my voice and hope that the black people of this nation will join me in my condemnation in the strongest terms of Idi Amin of Uganda who has perpetrated these atrocities against his own people who profess the Christian faith. I can only hope and pray for the safety of those millions of people in Uganda. As I understand from Press reports, their lives could be forfeited because they profess to follow the Christian faith. 
Again I say that I am saddened at the lack of voices raised in this country at what is happening in Uganda. I hope that after I have spoken tonight Australians and their Government will raise their voices in stronger terms than they have up to now. We can rest assured because we live in a democratic country in which every man has the right to speak and do those things which are possible under a democratic system. But let us have some feeling for those who are suffering in other parts of the world. I hope that those who have demonstrated in the past will now be counted and that they will demonstrate against this person for whom it is difficult to find words to describe. 
-I present an interim report from the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory, being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry. 
-I present the following petition from 23 citizens: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to support the amendment of my colleague  Senator Jessop  because I believe that we who are now opposing these measures are being consistent in our stand. We took a similar stand when the former Government proposed the same type of measure. The people of Australia who supported us when we voted against the proposal at that time can see that we are being consistent. Therefore, it is appropriate that I stand firm on this matter and support my colleague. We have opposed these measures in a number of ways. I and my colleagues are saddened that  Senator Wright's  amendments were not accepted by the Government. I hope that the Government will now see fit to accept what we are now proposing. It was a lesson to all of us here today when  Senator Wright  brought to our attention some of the facts concerning what has happened in the past. My concern with what is happening now is that power will be put into the hands of a Prime Minister so that he will be able to take this chamber to the people whenever he sees fit to do so. This has been proved conclusively. On 5 occasions since 1914a Prime Minister was able to take the House of Representatives to the people in under 2 years of the life of the parliament of the day. 
I do not think that anyone in this chamber or in Australia would be naive enough to believe that the only reason why that was done was that the Prime Minister of the time wanted to bring the elections for the 2 Houses together. I certainly am not naive enough to believe that I am not naive enough to believe that that would be the reason in the future. I have strong feelings about this measure and I am standing in my place to support the amendment proposed by my colleage  Senator Jessop. 
-I present the following petition from 341 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 percent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill 1976 be restored to the notice paper and consideration resumed at the stage it had reached in the last session. 
Order of Business on the Notice Paper 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and I apologise for its long and detailed nature. I refer to a Press release dated 28 May 1976 when the Minister announced that a working party would be set up consisting of representatives of his Department, the Department of Social Security, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Education to inquire into the problems associated with Aboriginal unemployment, which was then reported to amount to some 50 per cent of the Aboriginal work force. The working party was to have had its report ready for submission to the Ministers concerned by 3 1 July 1976. I also direct the Minister's attention to question on notice No. 990 of 5 October 1976 and to the reply. In view of that reply I ask: Has an independent examination of the report been completed? If not, why not, in view of the time which has already elapsed? If the examination of the report has been completed, will the Minister inform me and my people what remedial actions or programs are to be implemented to relieve this tragic state of affairs and when we may expect them to be implemented? 
I rise with a great sense of pride to support the speeches of my 2 colleagues,  Senator Lewis  and  Senator Tehan,  in the Address-in-Reply debate. I say that it is with a great sense of pride that I rise because, as an Australian and as an Australian Aborigine- and in some quarters this may be termed ironic- I am proud indeed that  Her  Gracious Majesty and  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh took time out to visit our country during  Her  Gracious Majesty's jubilee year celebrations. I am also extremely proud that  Her  Gracious Majesty saw fit to accept the invitation to open this session of our Parliament. 
I should like to take time out to congratulate my colleague,  Senator Austin  Lewis, firstly for his appointment to fill the Senate casual vacancy in his State of Victoria and the confidence placed in him by his Party and the people of Victoria and secondly on his maiden speech here today. It was a constructive speech though perhaps it may be termed as rather brief. Nevertheless it was a constructive speech and a speech of realism. I am sure that in the course of his time in this chamber we will hear many more speeches of like quality from my colleague who sits on the same side of this chamber as myself. I am kind of lost for words to express what I feel at this moment when I consider the remarks of the previous  speaker.  I have always had a strong respect and admiration for the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Ken  Wriedt. But today I am afraid I am rather disappointed with the speech that he has just made. 
Wait for it, fellows; you will get it in time. I am disappointed that the Leader of the Opposition stood up and had the audacity to demand that this Government bring down inflation and bring down the unemployment level, when he was a senior Minister in the government that the Australian people know was responsible for the economic mess that this country is in at the moment and the high rate of inflation we are suffering at this time. 
-Let us look back to 1972 and at some of the figures for inflation and unemployment in 1972.  Senator Cavanagh  well may walk out because sometimes the truth does hurt. The Labor Government came to office in 1972. I wonder whether the Australian people remember, as  Senator Wriedt  was so happily trying to make them do, what has happened in the past 1 8 months. Let us remind them of what happened in 1972 when we left government. Inflation was running at a tremendous ratesomething like 4.5 per cent. That was a shocking state of affairs under the Liberal-National Country Party Government which had been in office for some 23 years. The very same people who are in Opposition now and who were in Opposition then were saying to us: 'This situation is shocking; it is terrible! This Government needs to be turfed out because inflation is running at 4.5 per cent. ' They were also criticising us about unemployment. There were 35 000 people unemployed in Australia. We had a 4.5 per cent inflation rate and 35 000 people were unemployed. So the people of Australia- God bless them, they thought they were doing the right thing at the time- said that it was time for a change. The then great slogan of the now Opposition and those who came to office in 1972 was 'It's Time'. Unfortunately the Australian people thought it was time for a change. They got a change. Oh my goodness, what a change they got. Within 18 months inflation and unemployment were soaring, but what were they doing? They were doing nothing. All they were doing was emptying the barrel; handing out money left right and centre buying votes all over the country even amongst my own people. They were trying to buy them off in every possible way. I throw this fact back in the teeth of the Opposition: We are not responsible for the rate of inflation we have now and neither are we responsible for the high rate of unemployment in this country. Our Governmentthe present Government, the Australian Government, the Liberal-National Country Party Government- is doing something about the situation. 
I turn to the speech made yesterday by Her Gracious Majesty and refer to some of the points that were raised because I think they show that we have something to look forward to. Her Majesty said: 
Australia has experienced economic difficulties in recent years; my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
That is what this Government has been doing for the past 18 months. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have said categorically again and again that our first priority is to bring down the inflation rate and to get people back to work. That is what we are attempting to do. We are doing it in a sensible way. We are not trying to do things overnight as the Labor Government tried to do in its 3 years in office- a period I am sure Australia will never forget. The speech continues: 
The prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. 
My colleague commented on the rural industries and their plight and I shall be touching on that matter later. Her Majesty continued: 
My Government is providing incentives and encouragement to the private sector, and is reducing its own relative demands on national resources so that private industry may have room to grow, provide employment and increase the well-being of all Australians. 
That is what the present Government is endeavouring to do and it is doing so in a sensible and realistic way. The speech goes on: 
My Government is not only taking action to restore the economy, it is also making social reforms which are of fundamental importance to the freedom and well-being of the Australian people. 
My Government is committed to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage, and is giving priority to assisting those most in need in a manner increasing their choice, dignity and self-respect. 
So the Government has a policy. It has been consistent in that policy. I am sure that it will not be long before we see great effects from the policy of the Fraser Government. 
I want to speak for a short time about unemployment. This is a matter that surely concerns not only me and other members of this chamber and of the other place but also all Australians. Our prime goal, apart from bringing down inflation, must be to get the Australian people back to work. In my travels through not only my own State but also through other States of the Commonwealth I am finding- it is very sad to have to say this-that perhaps too many Australian people are becoming lazy and greedy. Unfortunately, the people involved- there is proof positive of the number involved- are giving a bad name to those who are genuinely unemployed. There are people who collect a social security benefit in one place and then go to another town under another name to collect another social security benefit. There are those young people who pool their social security benefit- five or six of them may club together- so that they can go to the Gold Coast and surf all day and live on the dole. I am not saying that all Australians are like that but unfortunately there are far too many of them. 
-Unfortunately, yes, there is proof of it. I have stacks of proof. 
-I have reported it,  Senator McLaren.  If you stop cackling for a while I will be able to carry on with my speech which will show a lot more sense than some of the cackling I have heard from you on your side of the chamber. As I said, unfortunately we are tending to become a lazy nation of people in some respects. We are asking for higher wages and less time at work. We want more leisure time but unfortunately the way things are going we are not producing. Unless we produce we will not be able to get this economy back to where it was prior to 1972 before its almost destruction by the Labor Party. I should like to see again what happened many years ago. I lived through the last Depression and though I do not want to see a depression again in this country- I pray to God that we will never again see one- I think we can learn something from the actions of the government of that day in relation not only to keeping people in house and home but also in being able to provide them with some kind of resource so that they could live. Instead of paying out the kind of money we are paying out now without people having to do something for it, I believe the Government should and must look at some kind of proposition whereby people will have to do something in order to receive the social security benefit. They would have to perform some task for the money that is paid to them at the moment by the taxpayer. I see many areas in which that could be done such as local government or State governments. People could be given some kind of work for a number of days. They would then not only retain their sense of dignity and pride but also make a contribution. 
Why can money not be channelled in the way that members of my own race on Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory have suggested? Aboriginal councillors have seen what is happening to the people in those communities. Instead of paying Aborigines what they term 'sit down money', they have asked the Government to pay the money to the councils. The councils would employ people to do work in their communities for their own benefit and for the benefit of their communities. Aboriginal councils are finding it difficult to employ people in these communities. People are saying: 'Why should I work when I can sit down and get money from the Department of Social Security? Why should I work for the council doing jobs for the benefit of the people in the community?' The same idea could apply to people in towns and cities throughout Australia. Genuinely unemployed people could go along to their local authority. They could be registered as unemployed and be given two or three days work a week. They would receive some remuneration in the same manner as they would receive it from the Department of Social Security. 
All people have to do now is go to the Department of Social Security on Mondays, register as unemployed and then go home, sit down and wait for the postman's whistle. They then go down to the mailbox and pick out the envelope containing the cheque. They do the same thing the next week. 
-They blow them at my place. They might not blow them at your place, old boy, but they do at mine. We have sensible postmen in Queensland. 
Yes, I am sorry. It probably would wake his chickens or put them off laying eggs. I am putting up what I believe to be a sensible proposition. When a man is genuinely unemployed and has a family to support, I believe that he is entitled to social security benefits. But, by the same token, I do not believe that any man or woman is entitled to sit down and receive a benefit from the taxpayer without making some effort to repay the people who are making the money available. The taxpayer is carrying the burden. Whilst there are so many people unemployed, the money that we pay to the Government in the form of taxation is fast running out and the government may not have sufficient money to provide all the services, apart from social security, required by the Australian people. People would welcome such an opportunity. I am talking about the genuinely unemployed person, the genuine, fair dinkum, decent Australian. He wants to make a contribution. He does not want to get something for nothing. This proposition would sort out the wheat from the chaff. Those people who are, what is commonly termed, 'loafing on the taxpayer' would be forced out of the woodwork and would find that they had to make a contribution otherwise they would not receive any money. I support that concept. . 
There is another matter I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate and the Parliament. It concerns people who leave Australia to go to other parts of the world. Throughout the course of a year many people travel overseas for one reason or another. They may be going on business excursions or on holidays. For whatever reason they are going, certain procedures have to be followed. A person has to go through the normal channels. He has to obtain a visa and get his passport brought up to date. Then he has to go to the Commonwealth health authorities and, among other matters, have various vaccinations such as those for smallpox and cholera. 
Recently I was invited to Lagos, Nigeria, as the guest of the Nigerian Government. A number of my fellow Aborigines also visited that country for the Black African Festival of Arts and Culture. I went through the normal procedures. I went to Nigeria and returned to Australia. I had all the vaccinations I was told I needed but on my return to Australia- as a matter of fact, it was only in the last couple of days- I received a telegram from the Commonwealth Department of Health in Canberra. I think it is important that I read this telegram because it substantiates what I am trying to get across. The telegram was addressed to me in Brisbane. It reads: 
Some United States delegates who attended the Black African Festival of Arts and Culture in Nigeria JanuaryFebruary this year have developed malaria. The preventive treatment (tablets) which was recommended by Doctor  Devanesen  would, if fully complied with while in Nigeria and for the period advised after return to Australia, provide satisfactory protection. However if you develop an illness, particularly one with fever, you should consult a doctor at once and show him this message, requesting him to contact the Commonwealth Department of Health in your State or the State Health Department. Those Departments have been advised of the situation. Should further information be required your doctor could contact the Assistant Director (Medical) of the Commonwealth Department of Health in each State. 
That is not nearly good enough. I do not speak for myself only. Thousands of Australians are going overseas. They could be going to malariaprone areas. It is not good enough that they are allowed to leave our shores without being fully protected by the health authorities of this nation. As well as myself, as I said, a number of tribal Aborigines from the Northern Territory, a group of tribal Aborigines from Aurukun in my own State of Queensland and other Aboriginal people from various parts of the Commonwealth attended that festival. Some people may say that I should have ascertained prior to leaving Australia whether Nigeria was a malaria-prone area. That is not good enough. We have a department responsible for those matters in the same way as we have a Department of Aboriginal Affairs. If anyone was seeking information about Aborigines he would go to that Department. To my knowledge the Department of Health did not inform the members of the Aboriginal contingent who went to Nigeria that it was a malaria-prone country, nor did they alert me to that fact. 
This matter needs to be looked at more closely. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  after reading my speech tomorrow, if he feels so inclined, or when it is reported to him, will make a thorough investigation of the matter. I am concerned that many other Australians in a like situation could enter disease-prone areas without the proper protection to which they are entitled. Unfortunately, because of short notice, I had  34.  days to prepare myself for the visit. I was notified that I was to be on an aircraft at a certain time. I did not have time to find out all I needed to know concerning the country to which I was travelling. I threw myself completely on the mercy of the Commonwealth Health authorities with confidence that these matters would be taken care of. On my return I found that they were not taken care of. I am concerned. This matter must be looked at. We must protect Australian people leaving our shores for whatever reason. In conclusion, I have great pleasure in supporting my colleagues, the mover and the seconder of this motion. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether she is aware of reports appearing in the Press over the last week on racial discrimination. 
I draw the attention of the Minister to the  Canberra Times  of today's date with the headlines: 
Racial discrimination seen in Townsville. 
I also draw the attention of the Minister to a paragraph which states: 
A year after the Anti-Discrimination Act, housing discrimination is blatant in Townsville. The facts speak for themselves. 
I ask: Will the Minister inform the Senate as to what action is intended to ensure that this discrimination against the Aboriginal community in Townsville ceases? 
I am most disappointed at the speech just delivered by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers). 
-No, I am notfortunately or unfortunately; perhaps I could make a better speech if I were reading it. The Leader of the Government has not put forward a case that would satisfy me and perhaps would satisfy many of the Australian people who elect senators to this chamber. Unfortunately because of a set of circumstances- this could be related to education among other matters- many people who are elected to this chamber perhaps are unable to collate and put forward an argument that would satisfy the people. Because of the generosity of the Parliament, these members now have the help of research assistants. With that help, they would be able to put forward a sensible and rational argument on many of the matters which come before this Parliament. 
I believe that there are people who need to be able to prepare their speeches before speaking in this chamber. I do not think there is anything wrong with preparing and delivering a written speech here. Such a practice would add to the quality of debates in the Parliament and would enhance the kinds of arguments which are put forward by those here as representing the views of the people who elected them. I see nothing wrong with that. I think that the arguments put forward by the Leader of the Government have no foundation whatsoever. I believe that senators should be allowed to read a speech if they feel so disposed. Many people can read a speech quite eloquently and put forward a point of" view that would sway not only the people they need to sway in the electorate but also the people in this chamber. I believe that if we confine debates to those who have had extra training in various aspects of speaking, to people such as many of my colleagues on my side of this chamber and many of my colleagues on the other side who have had training in Rostrum, Forum or whatever other organisation they choose to - 
-Maybe I am not doing too badly. Unfortunately there are people who, because of circumstances beyond their control, are not able to put forward an argument without having it written and before them in a speech with which their research officers have helped them in regard to the collation of statistics that they need to put forward. Ministers in this chamber are allowed to read their speeches because they claim that their speeches sometimes contain statistics and there are certain aspects of their speeches that have to be collated properly; so they have to be put forward in this chamber in a proper manner. I see no difference between Ministers and back benchers who have to put forward a case in order to convince their colleagues in this chamber and the electorate at large. They have to convince them that the arguments that they are putting forward are the best and are in the interests of the people they represent. Why should Ministers have that kind of privilege over back benchers? It is wrong that they should have that kind of privilege over back benchers. Back benchers should have the same privilege. I believe that the arguments put forward by the Leader of the Government have no foundation whatsoever. I support the view that members of this chamber, like members of the other chamber, should have the right to read their speeches if they think they will be able to put better arguments forward by doing so. 
I rise again to support the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  in his amendment. I believe that when this chamber becomes a chamber of academics and people trained in speaking, God help this nation because many people who aspire to come into this chamber may not have academic qualifications but may have a lot to contribute to our way of life. If they need to write down their contribution and to read it to this chamber then I say: Good on them. I believe they have every right to do this. They come to this chamber because a number of people in a State support them- not because they have academic qualifications, not because they are trained in public speaking, but because they are fair dinkum, decent Australians. 
The people who support them believe that they have a right to come to this chamber and to represent them. If they unfortunately are not able mentally to collate information and to stand up and make a speech off the cuff, maybe they need to write it down and read it out to this chamber to put forward the point of view that they have derived from speaking with and consulting the people in the communities of their various States. I say that they have every right to do that. If we do anything in this chamber and in this Parliament to deprive them of the opportunity to put forward their points of view I believe this nation will be much poorer. Maybe there are people in this chamber tonight and maybe there will be people in this chamber tomorrow who, because of their academic education and because of their training in public speaking, are able to put forward a point of view and to sway people to their way of thinking because they have the gift of the gab, as it is commonly called. The gift of the gab does not always mean that a point of view advanced is in the best interests of this nation and its people. Maybe some honourable senators need to be able to sit down and write out notes to refresh their memories. If we do anything in this chamber to stifle that, I believe this nation will be poorer and the people of this nation will be poorer. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I present 2 petitions, similar in wording, from 114 and 352 citizens respectively: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlay to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO percent of all funding for Australia's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5, 903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received, and first petition read. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health to a revolutionary procedure being tested in West Germany for the treatment of diabetics. I refer to the microdoser which is being developed to do away with the necessity of daily disruptive injections of insulin. I understand that the microdoser will be implanted beneath the patient's skin and will provide a regulated insulin level for a period of some 9 months. This device will constantly monitor the sugar concentration in the blood and automatically inject the required dosage to maintain the correct level. Another advantage is that the tiny reservoir of insulin can be refilled through the patient's skin by injection each 9 months. To me, a layman in these matters, this would seem an important breakthrough and I ask the Minister, if it is not already being done, to instigate an evaluation of this innovation in order to bring added relief to the many thousands of Australian diabetics? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I draw the Minister's attention to a letter which appeared in the  Medical Journal  of 5 February last at page 196, in which  Dr J.  F. Ryan, Medical Superintendent for John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd, Hastings, Victoria, criticised the growing practice of patients with minor injuries being given certificates for 3 weeks at a time off work when in many instances they could be employed on selected lighter duties if the employer were given a chance, thus increasing the amount of compensation payable and resulting in higher premiums and ultimately higher costs of production. This statement by such a reputable medical practitioner dealing at the real grass roots of the problem surely must alarm the Minister, as it does myself and, I am sure, many Australian taxpayers who must in the end foot the bill for the millions of dollars made up by these excessive compensation payments and lost man-hours. I realise that much of the compensation law is vested in the individual States. However, I ask the Minister to fully investigate this matter within this Government's area of responsibility and pass on to the States for their consideration any such recommendations to alleviate this drain on our finances. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the order of the day standing on the notice paper for 25 February 1977 relating to the motion to take note of the report on the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders be restored to the notice paper and be an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I present two petitions similar in wording from 143 and 35 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903 million of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and first petition read. 
-The Senate is debating the following motion moved by  Senator Keeffe. 
That the following is a matter of urgency: 
That the Federal Government has failed to honour its election promises to Aborigines. 
I listened closely to  Senator Keeffe.  I do not believe that he has proved a case to show that the present Government has failed to keep its promises. He certainly has not proved it to me nor have I found proof of it in my dealings and travelling not only in my State of Queensland but also throughout Australia generally. I am indebted to  Senator Melzer  for many of the matters which she has brought to light. There are many problems in Victoria and in every other State. This is because it has been only in recent years that governments of any political persuasion have done anything towards really assisting us, the Aboriginal people. However, I do not believe that  Senator Melzer  either has proved that this Government has failed to honour its election promises to the Aboriginal people. 
When the Government did reduce the allocation to Aboriginal affairs in the 1975-76 Budget by some $33m, I was probably the first person to raise my voice at what I thought was its callousness. However, I then had discussions with the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Ian  Viner, and was told that that was not the case and that the money would be restored after the Hay inquiry and other inquiries into the delivery of services to the Aborigine people had concluded. I was told that the money would certainly then be made available to carry out the programs of the Government. As we know, the Government did restore $25m to expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. 
It restored $25m. As I understand it, expenditure this financial year stands at some $178m while in 1975-76 $186m was spent. So, on my calculations, current expenditure is certainly less than was expended in 1975-76. The point I am making, however, is that I do not believe that money in itself is the answer to the problems which we, the Aboriginal people, are facing at this time or have faced for almost the last 200 years. Money alone is not the answer. The answer is to spend money for the benefits of the people and that it what this Government has endeavoured to do in the last 1 8 months by having inquiries into the delivery of services to the Aboriginal community. To me that is using common sense. If money is to be made available to the Aboriginal community it must be spent for the benefit of the Aboriginal community and not wasted in rip-offs here and rip-offs somewhere else. There have been rip-offs not only by non-Aboriginal people but also- and I say this with a great deal of sadness- by some of my fellow Aborigines. That is not assisting the Aboriginal community at all. 
The delivery of health services, legal aid, employment opportunities and better education so that Aborigines can go into better jobs are the areas on which money has to be expended, and it must be expended wisely. Because of the emphasis placed by the previous Government and this 
Government on aboriginalisation and giving Aborigines responsibility, I believe that we, the Aboriginal people, must accept that responsibility and ensure that when money is made available we spend it to the benefit of our people. 
To my knowledge there has been no cutback in the delivery of services to the Aboriginal community in the very important fields of health, education, legal services and housing. There have been no cutbacks in those 4 major areas. Many Aboriginal housing societies have been set up in the States and money has been made available to Aboriginal housing societies in my State of Queensland. I seem to have mislaid the figures relating to housing co-operatives - 
-Senator Keeffe, unfortunately - 
In New South Wales there are 30 housing associations; in Victoria there are 6; in Queensland there are 44; in South Australia there are 16; in Western Australia there are 14; in Tasmania there are 2 and in the Northern Territory there are 45 housing associations. In New South Wales there were 80 houses constructed or purchased by housing cooperatives; in Victoria there were 12; in Queensland there were 190; in South Australia there were 74; in Western Australia there were 53; in Tasmania there were 3 and in the Northern Territory there were 174. 1 would like to see 3 times that amount being purchased and built for my own people. But, unfortunately, we as well as other people in Australia are subject to the economic situation as it is at the moment. We as well as other sections of the community certainly have suffered because of the economic situation but I am sure- and I say this without fear or favourthat the present Government will continue with the programs that operate already and will continue to support them. 
I am sure that when we see the forthcoming Budget the Aboriginal people will be as happy as I will be to find that the Government will carry on with its programs and keep funds flowing into the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and to Aboriginal people as a whole. The services that are needed will be funded by the Government. I have the assurance of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and of the Treasurer that the Government will keep funds flowing. All I am saying is that whilst there has been some cutback and the money made available may not be all that the 
Department budgeted for, providing the money is used wisely and sensibly for the benefit of the Aboriginal people, the Government has met its responsibility. The Government must act responsibly and ensure that when public funds are used they are used wisely and sensibly. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate this evening an article that appeared in the  Bulletin  of 19 March 1977. It was headed 'Black wasn't beautiful'. Be that as it may, many black people are beautiful as I am sure are many white people. The article to which I refer was written by a Brian Hoad. It was about the visit to Lagos, Nigeria, by a number of Aboriginal people to the World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture held in January this year. I do not intend to quote the whole article but there are a number of passages from it to which I wish to refer. The article commences by stating: 
 If only India had joined in, ' says Anthony Wallis, looking rather tired and worldly wise after more than a month in Lagos, Nigeria, trying to salvage something out of the general chaos which beset the Australian delegation to the second World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture. 
Hoad goes on to state: 
Wallis is a project officer for the Aboriginal Arts Board of the Australia Council. He accompanied the delegation to control the purse strings. He is white, one of three such species of mankind who accompanied some 33 Aborigines and part-Aborigines on their voyage of discovery. 
There are a couple of things in that passage of the article I wish to speak about but before doing so I will read from another part of the article. It states: 
The Leader of the Australian delegation was John Moriarty, a part-Aborigine- 
I stress the expression 'part-Aborigine '-  from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra and a leading Aboriginal 'activist' for some years. As zonal vicepresident for Australia/Asia he made several visits to Lagos over the past couple of years to iron out problems and make arrangements for his delegation's visit. 
As the core of the delegation, Moriarty gathered round him six other activists. Their main interest was black politics. Other urban Aborigines and part-Aborigines include five dancers from the Aboriginal/Islander Dance Theatre set up in Sydney by Carole Johnson, a black American in 1975. 
In the first place,  Mr Brian  Hoad, to my knowledge, did not visit Lagos, Nigeria at the time of the black and African festival. Consequently, in my opinion, the article can be written only on second-hand information from a person who did attend the festival. I intend to name this person during the course of my remarks. I, together with many other Aborigines, have become sick and tired of people, particularly non-Aboriginal people, using the derogatory and degrading terms 'half caste', 'part-Aborigines', 'half breeds' and so on. To strengthen my argument against such degrading terms, I quote from an answer given by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to a question asked in the other place by  Mr Donald  Cameron. I will not read the question but I will read the answer given by  Mr Viner.  He said: 
I thank my friend and honourable colleague for his question. This has been a matter to which governments of the past, both State and Federal, have directed their attention. Of course, it is rather invidious to look at the  precentage  of blood of one race or another in a person's veins and say whether that person is of one particular race or another. I wonder what the Irishman would say if he had a percentage of good Scottish Cameron blood coursing through his veins. Is he an Irishman or a Scotsman? For the purpose of a great number of our Aboriginal affairs programs, the definition of an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander is that he or she be a person of Aboriginal or Islander descent who identifies as an Aboriginal or Islander and who is accepted as such by the community with which he or she is associated. 
Having given that definition, I am reminded also of what is provided in the Queensland legislation, namely that an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander is a descendant of an indigenous inhabitant, with no degree of blood as a matter of consideration. 
This article is not only saying things about particular people- I will deal with that later- but also is using degrading terms, dividing Aborigines into part this, part that, quarter this and half that, and driving a wedge also between the tribal or the traditional Aborigine and the de-tribalised urban Aboriginal people. The writer has also made accusations against  Mr Moriarty  who is a very highly respected Aborigine working within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs whose integrity is unquestionable. He has never to my knowledge or to the knowledge, I believe, of all of the Aboriginal community been classified as an activist. He has always taken a very steady course. He has always walked down the middle of the road. He has worked within the system. He is still working within the system for the benefit of his own people. I believe that he can only be congratulated for the attitude he has adopted. To say that he surrounded himself by a number of other activists is degrading to the Aboriginal people referred to. One of the people the writer talks about is  Mrs Kath  Walker, a poetess. She has done a remarkable job. She has worked very hard in the cause of the Aboriginal people for many years. She was outspoken on many occasions. She probably had many shots at the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and she has probably had a few shots at the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. Surely part of living in a democracy is being able to criticise governments or criticise people in a constructive manner. 
Some of the matters referred to relate to the problems that occurred in Nigeria to which I was a witness. I happened to be there myself at the invitation of the Nigerian Government to attend the festival. I saw some of the things that happened. I had meetings with the people there. If this gentleman- I use the word very generously in view of the way in which he has written this article-  Mr Brian  Hoad, had really wanted to write an article on the problems that occurredthere were problems; I will talk about those later- all he had to do was not to take the word of one man. Right through the article I see the name of a person whom I shall mention. All that the writer had to do was to get in touch with John Moriarty or Vince Copley, from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, who is now, I believe, with Aboriginal Hostels. The author could have got in touch with  Mr Jack  Davis in Sydney who is the editor of one of the Aboriginal publications. He could have got in touch with Roslyn Watson who is the first and only Aboriginal ballet dancer to my knowledge. He could have got in touch with Kath Walker. He could have got in touch with any one of those people or all of them. He could even have got in touch with me. But instead of that he took the word- as I see it; I am pretty certain I am right- of Lance Bennett who is, as I understand it, with the Aboriginal Arts Board and looks after the tribal Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory and the northern parts of Queensland, displaying their corroborees and much of their art. I would say that this man was responsible to a large extent, if not the full extent, for the problems that occurred in Lagos. I understand that this man has been with the Arts Board for some nine or ten years. The job is very lucrative. I understand he earns about $10,000 for $12,000 a year plus, plus, plus, plus. I am quite sure he is happy about that but while he is doing his work he is putting a wedge between the tribal and the non-tribal Aboriginal people. 
The article states that the urban Aborigines were in Nigeria only for politics. I deny that very strongly. I happened to be there with them. I met them, saw what they were doing and what they were trying to achieve. The article states: 
This general pre-occupation with politics seems to have interfered with the organisational abilities of the activists. Despite the previous visits of Moriarty to Lagos and the advance guard of activists he led there to prepare for the arrival of the main party, little was prepared. When the tribal Aborigines arrived after 52 hours of travelling they found they had nowhere to stay. It was discovered that accommodation in the new Festival Village would not be ready for another 4 days. They had arrived at six in the evening. By 1.00 a.m. the next morning Wallis, who was accompanying them had managed to arrange accommodation in an 'incomplete' hotel on the outskirts of town. Moriarty and his activists were staying at one of Lagos 's more established hotels. 
I stayed at the same hotel as the traditional dancers. It was the Echo Hotel, a brand new hotel. Admittedly it was not quite completed. Work was still being done around the outside. The telephones were not working but the facilities were good enough for anyone to stay there. 
It was John Moriarty, Vince Copley and Anthony Wallis who forced the issue when the Nigerian organisers of the festival wanted to take the Aboriginal people out to the village which was not completed. There was no water. The septic systems were not working. Water was lying all over the floors. John Moriarty, Vince Copley and Anthony Wallis all agreed that they would not allow the elderly people to go out there. They forced the issue and the Aborigines were put into the Echo Hotel. I stayed there. I found absolutely nothing wrong with the accommodation. It was first class. As a matter of fact, the tariff was about 60 era a day. I forget exactly the exchange rate but the nira was certainly worth a lot more than our dollar. As far as I can gather it would have cost $80 to stay in the Echo Hotel. For the man to say that John Moriarty and the activists, as he calls them, dumped the traditional people into this hotel was quite wrong. 
Perhaps neither he nor Wallis understood one point. I hope the Government will take notice of it. When Aboriginal people are travelling away from Australia to attend something like this festival they should be fully briefed on what to expect in the countries to which they are travelling. I found that the protocol system in Nigera was certainly nothing like what we have in Australia. People, according to their station, were put into various types of accommodation. Let me give an example of what I mean. When I landed at the airport I was taken to one of the lounges. I learned later that there was a VVVIP lounge, a VVVIP lounge, a VVIP lounge, a VIP lounge and then a lounge for the ordinary people. That shows the levels of accommodation that were provided. Because John Moriarty was the leader of the delegation he was put into a certain class of hotel and the rest of the people were put in a different class of hotel again. I was invited to stay at one of the top hotels with the heads of state from the different black African countries because I was referred to by the organisers of the festival as the leader from Australia. When they first invited someone to come from Australia they invited the Governor of South Australia,  Sir Douglas  Nicholls. He was not able to go. They then invited the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who, according to them, was another step down the protocol ladder. He was not able to go, so they came down to a lowly back bencher and invited me. Because I am the only Aborigine in Parliament, they offered me a different set of accommodation and different privileges from those that other people were getting. Unfortunately, I was not there long enough to accept their kindness and I stayed in the same hotel. 
In the article there is a continual denigration of Aboriginal people by a man who did not even go to the festival. He claims that the urban Aboriginal people were not looking after the tribal or traditional people, but that is not true. Lance Bennett was continually driving a wedge between the urban Aborigines and the tribal Aborigines, and I believe that the whole of the wording of the article and the criticism contained within it is the work of Lance Bennett. As I said, Hoad did not attend the festival and he could have had no more idea than the man in the moon of what happened there. In the article he claimed: 
The tribal dancers were scheduled to give their first performance of 18 January. The organisation was unfortunate They had to perform in a huge concrete parade ground, an enormous space guaranteed to overwhelm the intricate delicacies of 17 Aboriginal dancers and they were programmed to follow a colourful display by 150 dancers from Ghana who were schedulded to dance until 10 p.m. They danced on until midnight. By the time the tribal Aborigines put in an appearance the audience was already leaving. 
The activists accused the tribal people of a poor performance; but finally settled the blame on Bennett and Haag. 
I believe that that is correct and that that is where the blame should have been put. Stefan Haag and Lance Bennett were supposed to have set up the area with lighting and sound systems and everything else. Unfortunately, our tribal people did not give the best performance they could have given, not because of themselves but because of the conditions under which they had to perform. The lighting system was very bad. The microphones were behind the old people, who were sitting on the ground singing. The didgeridoo was down on the ground and the microphone was not able to pick up its sound. Consequently, all that could be seen was our people performing with no sound, and there was no understanding. Either Bennett or Haag should have been speaking on the microphone and telling the African people what the dance was all about. The Africans had no understanding of it and they were not told what it was all about. The lighting system was bad, and it was all the fault not of John Moriarty and the urban Aborigines who were there but of the 2 non-Aboriginal people who claimed that they were running the show and who continually took no notice of Moriarty or Vince Copley, who were the organisers of the whole show. They would not listen to them; they were the white men. They were the blokes who knew everything and were going to do everything in their own way. 
They come back to Australia and give a story like this to someone. It is written up in the Bulletin, and in my opinion it could do a lot of harm, not only to the people who are mentioned in the article but also to the articulate urban Aborigine who in many instances is trying to improve the lot of his fellow Aborigines in the Northern Territory and other parts of Australia, who unfortunately are not so articulate. I do not believe that they should be denigrated in the way they have been in this article, and I believe that an apology should be given to all the people concerned with the organisation of the Aborigines going to the festival, and particularly Moriarty, who was the main organiser of the whole thing. I believe that he did a magnificent job. There were some unfortunate incidents as far as the tribal people were concerned. They left and came home, but certainly that was not the fault of Moriarty or his organisation. It was the fault of Lance Bennett and Stefan Haag, who drove a wedge between the tribal people and the nontribal people and continued to do so until they had the old people in such a state that they could no longer carry on and they came home. It was very unfortunate because what they had to offer to the festival I believe was tremendous and would have been appreciated by all the African people, all the black people who attended the festival. Because of the 2 men who caused all the trouble the exhibition by the tribal people surely was a failure. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide50 per cent of all funding for Australia's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I rise this evening to support the amendment moved by my colleague and friend,  Senator Missen.  It reads: 
Leave out all the words after 'That', insert 'there bc referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter: 
The situation in the former Portuguese colony of East Timor, as it relates directly to Australia's interests and responsibilities, and in particular- 
Australian assistance to the East Timorese people; 
b ) Australian policy concerning refugees and the reuniting of families from East Timor; and 
the disappearance of Australian journalists in East Timor'. 
I join my colleague,  Senator Missen,  in this debate with a sense of deep regret and sadness. It probably is well known that I had the opportunity, or perhaps the misfortune one might say, to visit the colony of East Timor some little time ago in company with my Opposition colleague from this place,  Senator Gietzelt,  and my Opposition colleague from the other place,  Mr Ken  Fry. I would like to go back to shortly before I had the opportunity of visiting the colony on 26 September 1975. I would like to relate to the Senate this evening the circumstances in which I became involved in and concerned with the plight of the people of East Timor. 
After being away from my home I returned to the city of Brisbane. On arrival at the airport I rang my wife to let her know I had at least arrived safely at the airport and was on my way home. She informed me that she had received telephone messages from my secretary and from a person who was then much involved with East Timor. I learned that the person involved had contacted the then shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable Andrew Peacock- he now holds that portfolio- and asked him whether he would be prepared to go to East Timor. Unfortunately the then shadow Minister informed that person that it was not possible because he was involved with the coming of independence to Papua New Guinea. The person prevailed upon the shadow Minister to go to East Timor. The shadow Minister said: 'I cannot do it. I suggest that you contact my friend and colleague,  Senator Bonner,  and ask him whether he would be prepared to go'. 
Having received the message I contacted the person in Sydney. He told me of the conversation he had had with  Mr Peacock.  I am cautious when something like this occurs. I frankly and freely admit that I am not well versed in foreign affairs. I did not want to become involved in a foreign affairs matter. On the following day I contacted  Mr Peacock  to ask him the score. He said that he had been contacted by this person and that he had advised the person that he should contact me. He advised the person that I, of all the people in the Parliament, would perhaps be the person who should go to East Timor. He said: Nev, I really feel that you should go. It will help to broaden your outlook and to have an understanding of the relationships of other countries with us. I advise you to go '. 
Consequently on 26 September 1975, in company with  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt and  Mr Ken  Fry from the other place, I arrived in Darwin en route to East Timor. I know that there has been and probably will be in the future some criticism of my friend and colleague,  Senator Gietzelt.  In this instance I want to say that I have the highest regard and respect for the part he played in our visit to East Timor. While we sit on opposite sides of this chamber and we may have differences of philosophy and ideology and in some cases we may be even diametrically opposed to each other, I say quite frankly and quite openly that I have nothing but the highest regard and respect for the part that he has played in relation to East Timor and for the part he played when we visited that unfortunate and sad place on 26 September 1975. 
We flew from Darwin to Dili. I think it is important that I make these points known. We flew from Darwin in a twin-engined Cessna to Dili which is probably the nearest major centre of East Timor to Indonesian Timor. The flight took us approximately  Vh.  hours. It would take exactly the same time to fly from Darwin to Katharine in the Northern Territory. I think that is worth noting by the Australian people. As I found out later, it would take something like 7 minutes in one of our fighter aircraft to fly from Dili to Darwin. I think this is well worth knowing and remembering by the people of Australia when we talk about a situation that is nigh on our doorstep- a situation about which I believe as Australians we should be very concerned. 
On arrival in Dili my 2 colleagues and I met with a number of people who at that time were probably in charge of most of East Timor. We spoke to the leaders of the Fretilin movement. I call it a movement rather than anything else because from my discussions with the people who were then leaders I can term it only as a movement- a movement of people concerned about their small country and the people in it and who wanted to work towards independence. Because of the problems that were then occurring in Portugal the Portuguese found it impossible to be able to carry on and take care of this small colony. The Governor who was there at the time withdrew with his garrison- his troops- and the people who were responsible for the administration of that small colony to a small island very close to East Timor. We had the opportunity of speaking with many people. One of them claimed to be the  President  of East Timor. 
Whether he was self-appointed or whether he was appointed by the people I do not know. His name was Francisco Amaral. The Vice-President was Nicolai Reis Lobato. The SecretaryGeneral was Alarico Fernandes. The SecretaryGeneral (Political) was Jose Ramos Horta. The Military Commander was Rogerio Lobato. The Secretary Military Commander was Her.menegildo Alves. 
We spoke to these people for quite a long time. I think we spent some 3 hours discussing various problems and what the people of East Timor were seeking. In company with  Senator Gietzelt  and  Mr Ken  Fry, a member of the other place, I questioned them very closely and received what I would term many pertinent answers to the questions I asked. When that meeting broke up those people took me aside. As I have said before in this chamber, perhaps because of the pigmentation of my skin they felt that they had something in common with me- a coloured man. They gave me the opportunity of meeting a lot of the people of East Timor. At that time they were seeking some humanitarian assistance from any country that was prepared to give it but particularly from Australia. They were seeking assistance in the form of medical supplies, foodstuffs, clothing and machinery to be able to work their farmlands so that they could look after their rice and coffee crops. They also thought that perhaps Australia would be able to assist them by being an arbitrator in the dispute that was taking place among the Fretilin movement, the Apodeti and the Timorese Democratic Union. 
From what I could ascertain from talking to the people, it appears that after the withdrawal of the Portuguese Administrator and Governor and their troops there was an attempted coup by the UDT which was pro-Indonesian and wanted to be part of Indonesia. But the Fretilin movement wanted to work towards independence. Fretilin members were not talking about independence the next day, the next week or the next year. They were talking about independence in some 10 or 15 years time. They were not fools. They were not stupid people. They were people of great intelligence and understanding. They knew that they did not have the capacity at that time to become independent immediately. They wanted to work towards independence. They wanted assistance from countries like Australia. They would even have been prepared to accept assistance from Indonesia to achieve independence and to be able to determine their own future at their own rate and not at the rate that someone wanted to force upon them. 
As I said, they took me aside, spoke to me and asked me to do a number of things. I listened to what they had to say. They asked me to go back to Australia and ask the Australian Government and the Australian people to give them the kind of assistance that I have already outlined. A number of people, and one person in particular, have said to me that I am naive in foreign affairs matters and that I do not understand them. That may well be so. But there is one thing I do know: That is people and how to communicate with them. I have, I believe, some capacity in that area. I talked to the Timorese people. I listened to them. I questioned them very closely. In relation to the humanitarian aid they were seeking from Australia, I said: 'It is all very well for you to ask me to go back to my country and talk to my people and the Australian Government about giving aid to you in these troubled times. What assurance can I get from you that you will give this aid to all the people in East Timor whether they be supporters of Apodeti, UDT, Fretilin or whether they be just ordinary people?' The  President,  Francisco Amaral, looked me in the eyes and said:  'Senator, we  do not want you to send this kind of aid and ask us to distribute it throughout our country. We ask you to send your Red Cross, the International Red Cross, or any non-political organisation from your country to distribute aid to all the East Timorese people. We do not feel that we would be impartial. But surely, if your Government and your people sent this aid and sent people to distribute it, it would be distributed fairly and impartially to all the people of East Timor. ' 
I do not think that one could ask for anything fairer than that. On top of that, the  President  said to me: 'We also ask that the Australian people send a delegation to arbitrate between the 3 different groups in our country and to bring us together so that we can discuss these problems, sit down rationally and talk about them and do something about bringing our people together. At the moment we are unable to do that. The UDT is in one area. Apodeti is in another area. We are in another area. All we are doing is fighting among ourselves. While we fight among ourselves our people are being hurt in between. We ask you to go back to your country and ask the Australian people and the Australian Government to send a team of people to be arbitrators to help us to solve our problems.' That is the kind of thing I learnt when I talked to the leaders of the Fretilin movement who have been accused, on many occasions by many people, of being on the extreme Left and of being communist. I wish to say this now and I wish all Australians to hear it: I would probably be the most ardent anti-communist in this country. I would be the first and only Aborigine to be an anticommunist. I have no truck with the extreme left wing. I have been accused of that because I have taken up the cudgels for a group of people who 1 believe are entitled at least to the consideration and the assistance of the free nations of this world which they have not had until this moment. Let people say no more that Neville Bonner is tied with the left wing or the communist movement. I have nothing to do with it. I believe I am a humanitarian. I have feelings for people who are suffering, particularly those who are suffering so close to our shores. During my visit to that country I found that the leaders of the Fretilin movement were no more communist than I am. What they said to me was this: 'We are in a very serious situation and we need help. We are like a man who is drowning in a stream and if the free countries of the world. and Australia in particular, do not give us assistance and we are sinking then we will take help from wherever we can get it. ' The  President,  Francisco Xavier Do Amaral, said to me:  'Senator Bonner,  if you were drowning in a stream and a hand was stretched out to help you, would you question whether it was the hand of a communist, Christian or otherwise? No sir, you would grab it to save your life and that is what we will do if the time comes when we can get no help and can expect no help from other countries.' 
I happened to return from East Timor a few hours earlier than  Senator Gietzelt  and  Mr Ken  Fry from the other place. On my return to Darwin, quite late in the evening, I rang my secretary and said: 'Would you please, first thing tomorrow morning, while I am in transit from Darwin to Brisbane, contact the Prime Minister and ask him if he would be kind enough to grant me a few moments of his time as I believe I have some very important messages and I would like to relate them to him as they were given to me by the leaders of the Fretilin movement and the people of East Timor'. I think it is appropriate that I tell the Senate tonight, and the people of Australia, what my reception was on my return. I have before me a copy of an item which appeared in the Press on 29 September 1975. This report appeared in the  Queensland Times  published in Ipswich, Queensland. The headlines were in big black type, and maybe that is appropriate. The headline was: 
Brush-off to Bonner. PM 'too busy' to hear Timor report. 
The article stated: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Gough  Whitlam refused to listen to  Senator Neville  Bonner, when the  Senator returned  from Timor with information from Fretilin leaders. 

 Senator Bonner spent several hours in discussions with the  President,  Vice-President and Commander in Chief of the Fretilins-  the majority party in East Timor. 
That was my reception from the Prime Minister of Australia at that time when I returned from East Timor. In that same newspaper, the  Queensland Times  of 29 September 1975, the editorial was headed 'Rebuffed by P.M.'. The editorial stated: 
The Australian Government's apparent lack of interest in the situation in Portuguese Timor has puzzled other people in addition to  Senator Neville  Bonner. 
The  Senator revealed  at the weekend that he had been given the 'brush-off' by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  when he attempted to deliver a message from the Fretilin leaders in Portuguese Timor. 

 Senator Bonner went to Timor with an Australian delegation to assess the situation there and he returned with first-hand information. 
That information was completely ignored by the Prime Minister of the day. I am sorry that cartoons cannot be incorporated in  Hansard.  I only wish to God they could be. I am referring to a cartoon by McCrae which depicts some Indonesian volunteers in Timor and beneath it are the words: 
Of course you've got the right to self-determination. You 've got 10 seconds to make up your mind. 
That is the kind of thing that happened in East Timor during the takeover by Indonesia. The  Australian Financial Review  of Tuesday, 9 December 1975, carried an editorial headed  'Mr Peacock  "regrets", and  Mr Whitlam  "deplores".'. That editorial stated: 
It is interesting to note the careful language which Australian political leaders are using in the wake of Indonesia 's invasion of Portuguese Timor. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  says he regrets the Indonesian action. Former Prime Minister Whitlam says he deplores it. 
Nobody condemns it. 
The truth of the matter is that no Australian political leader is prepared to condemn it because both sides are tied to a policy of extreme conciliation towards the Indonesians. 
I repeat: 
The truth of the matter is that no Australian political leader is prepared to condemn it because both sides are tied to a policy of extreme conciliation towards the Indonesians. 
I repeated that statement because I believe it should be indelibly imprinted on the minds of the Australian people. The editorial continued: 
Australia is learning the price of living with a very volatile giant on its doorstep. 
I am quoting from the  Australian Financial Review  of Tuesday. 9 December 1975. The editorial continued: 
Ever since the Sukarno days when Indonesia almost went communist it has been the firm policy of Australia to keep on side with the fervently anti-communist military Government in Jakarta. 
In many respects it has been a successful policy. Australia and Indonesia have enjoyed harmonious relations for two such geographically close, but culturally diverse nations. 
Problems on the border between Papua New Guinea and West Irian have been settled in a very cordial way, and Australia has developed a program of long-term military and civil aid in Indonesia. 
This style of relationship reached its peak during the Labor years when  Mr Whitlam  and  President  Suharto exchanged private visits. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has actively encouraged this relationship, as it properly sees a stable and secure Indonesia as vital for Australia. 
In this context both the department and political leaders are being quite cynical about the East Timorese. They see the Indonesian takeover as far and away the tidiest solution to the whole problem. 
Tidy for Indonesia and tidy for Australia. The fact that it is not so tidy for the East Timorese is just one of those things. 
What else happened? On 4 October 1975, some little time after my return from East Timor, the  Queensland Times  in Ipswich, the newspaper published in my home city, printed an article headed 'Bonner challenged on Timor Report'. That article stated: 
Treasurer and Federal Member for Oxley,  Mr Bill  Hayden today challenged  Senator Neville  Bonner to produce a detailed written report on the unfortunate events in Portuguese Timor. 
Well you may croak, you squatter. That newspaper article also stated: 

 Senator Bonner is only one of many Members of Parliament who visited Timor. There is no evidence he has any more expertise in Timorese affairs, or that he has any greater insight into the problems of the region than any other MP or  Senator who  has visited Timor in recent times. ' 
The honourable member said that yet two members of his own Party were in my company when I visited that country. Expertise? What more expertise do you need than to speak with people and to know the suffering of the people, to understand them and to be able to be identified with their suffering? What expertise do you need to understand the suffering of people? You do not need expertise. If you do, then my God I would have more expertise than anybody else in this Parliament because I have suffered. I have known discrimination, hunger and everything else. Many honourable senators in this chamber would not have the slightest conception of these things. I come from a race of people who have gone through, to some extent, what the East 
Timorese people are going through at this moment. 
I have a paper here that I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard,  with the permission of the Senate. It is addressed to all members of the Australian Parliament so I do not know that I need to show it to other honourable senators. I am sure that they all would have received a copy of a circular from the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? 

The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTThere being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN PARLIAMENT 
The Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, a body sponsored by the Catholic Bishops of Australia, urges all members of the Australian Parliament to support the establishment of a full and impartial parliamentary inquiry into all aspects of the East Timor situation. 
East Timor has been oneof the Commission's main concerns since November 27 1975, when it called on the Australian Government to 'protest vigorously to the Indonesian Government at the reported Indonesian attack on the town of Atabae in East Timor' and to 'take all possible steps towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict, at the heart of which is the right of the East Timorese people to determine their own future.' 
In its statement on March 14 1976, the Commission enunciated its policy on East Timor. The Australian Government was asked to work towards a cessation of the fighting, to support a genuine act of self-determination in which all political groupings could participate, to seek the withdrawal of all Indonesian troops, to press for the admission of international humanitarian aid into East Timor and to provide facilities to enable refugees to be brought to Australia and accommodated here. 
The Australian Government subsequently developed a policy which was very similar to that of the Commission and which received widespread public support from all sections of the Australian community; the Catholic Bishops, meeting in Conference, issued a statement on September 7 1976 which stated in part: 
The Bishops wish to express support for the Australian Government's policy on East Timor and for the Government's efforts in attempting to secure the admission of international humanitarian aid into the territory. The Bishops encourage the Australian Government to pursue its policy in all appropriate forums. ' 
In a Press Release issued on December 6 1976 the Commission pointed out that there was a serious conflict between  the Government's stated policy and its recent actions, which included Australia's abstention from voting at the United Nations on a resolution, the substance of which was in complete agreement with the stated policy of the Government. The Commission also urged the Government to give top priority to East Timorese refugees in Portugal and argued that Australia had a special responsibility in this case. 
A full and impartial parliamentary inquiry would enable a thorough evaluation of present and past responses to all aspects of the East Timor situation and would be an excellent mechanism for providing factual information to the Australian community. This last is most important; genuine democracy is impossible without a well-informed electorate. 
There is an increasing interest in the Australian community in foreign and refugee policies. If Parliament does not take a leading role in informing public opinion then it would be abrogating one of its most basic responsibilities. 
MAURO DI  NICOLA National Secretary. 
Thank you. An article in a newspaper report was headed: 
Australian Press attacked over Timor charge 
I shall read an extract from that article. It was written by Hamish McDonald. The article states: 

 Mr Malik did not explicitly deny the report, but said: 'Australian troops had also killed many people from Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam during the war there '. 
The Indonesian people are saying that because we were involved in those wars, that should surely excuse what has happened in East Timor and many of the allegations which have been made by many people. Quite properly the person in the forefront of these allegations has been none other than our Australian,  Mr Dunn.  The article continues: 

 Mr Malik, who was waving his hands in the air, said: 'Let it become a major issue. Fifty thousand people or perhaps even 80 000 might have been killed during the war in Timor, but we saved 600 000 of them '. 

 Mr Malik did not further clarify his remarks. He was speaking to Indonesian Pressmen on his return to Jakarta, from election campaigning in Sumatra. 
-That is  Mr Malik,  the Foreign Minister of Indonesia. We are not asking Australia to go into Indonesia with guns blazing. We are not asking Australia to go into East Timor with guns blazing. All we are asking is that an investigation be carried out by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence We are asking for an investigation to be carried out and for the allegations to be looked at but not only as far as the Australian people are concerned. I would think and hope that Indonesia would welcome an investigation into the various allegations which have been made of atrocities in East Timor. I hope that Indonesia and we as Australian people will welcome an investigation and that we will look at the allegations to ascertain whether there is any truth in them. We are not seeking to interfere with the internal affairs of Indonesia, despite the fact that people are saying we are. It has been said to me that we should not interfere with the internal affairs of Indonesia. We are not interfering with the internal affairs of Indonesia because until now the Australian Government, the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs have not recognised the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. We are asking for an investigation into a country which, as far as Indonesia and Australia are concerned, is independent. We do not recognise the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. 
In my opinion and in the opinion of thousands of Australians we would not be offending the Indonesian people if they have nothing to hide. The only way we would be offending them would be if they had something to hide. I hope they will be decent and democratic enough to welcome a look at these allegations which have been made by many of the people who have come from East Timor. People in Australia, people in Portugal and  Mr Dunn,  who is a most highly respected and decent Australian, have made these allegations. If  Mr Dunn  is right, let us hear about the matter, let us find out. If he is wrong, let us find out about that too. If the allegations which have been made by hundreds of people are wrong, then, for the sake of Australia, let us find out. Let us find out for our own peace of mind. 
When I was in that country one of the things which touched me most was when I was taken around to meet many of the men 50, 55, 60 and 70 years of age. Immediately they were told that I came from Australia they threw their arms around me and they said: 'Thank you, thank you. Australia come. Australia come at last. We now are saved. Australia will come and help us'. Australia came all right! Australia did not come at all. They said: 'We remember those bad times when Japanese troops come down and we fight alongside of Australian. Australian people, they fought alongside of us. Many of them went back to Australia.' Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  many Australians came back to Australia to fight again and to win that war. But at what expense? It was at the expense of the lives of many, many East Timorese people. Shame! I say: 'Shame, Australia! ' Australia has a shame which I believe it will long live to regret. Today where stands the Returned Services League? Where stand the fathers, the sons, the daughters of those who came back from East Timor to fight again? The 
East Timorese people paid the supreme sacrifice that those people might come back. 
The only crime of those old men. those dear, sweet, wonderful people who spoke to me, was that they were so naive. They believed that we would come to their rescue. Because of their naivety they paid with their lives. I paid too. I will pay as long as I live for being so naive. But, thank God, the only thing I will have to pay with is my conscience. I hope the conscience of the people of Australia will be pricked. I hope the conscience of the people in this chamber tonight will be pricked and that they will support the amendment so ably moved by my colleague,  Senator Missen,  who also has shown his humane and sincere attitude towards the people who are unable at this moment to protect themselves. The least we can do is have a full investigation into the facts surrounding what has happened in East Timor. Surely that is the least we can ask of this Parliament and the least we can ask of the Australian people. 
We were certainly found wanting at the time, when we could have done most. I do not excuse my Government. I believe it, too, has blood on its hands. I believe that the present Prime Minister and the present Minister for Foreign Affairs are as guilty as the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs and the previous Prime Minister. They, too, have done little or nothing compared with what they could have done. Maybe tonight we can begin to right some of the wrongs by supporting this amendment. If this amendment is defeated I will support the motion moved by the Opposition. As I said in a television and radio interview, it is not a matter of me threatening to cross the floor; I am making a categorical statement. I support the amendment moved by my colleague and I will support the motion moved by the Opposition if the amendment is defeated. 
I present the following petition from 156 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received and read. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to a recent report that  President  Carter of the United States of America intends to spend in the vicinity of SUS 1.5 billion during the next 18 months in a 3- pronged attack on unemployment, one suggestion being the revival of the youth conservation corps which will pay the minimum wage to young people willing to work in national parks and forests and in towns on community conservation projects. A similar scheme to this has been advocated by myself and others in both Houses for some time. I ask the Minister to investigate in detail the President's proposals with a view to implementing a similar scheme in Australia where there is an abundance of national parks, as well as many sorely needed community projects. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources aware that the South African Owned Energy Organisation, SASOL, has sold a unique method for upgrading low grade coal to a Japanese consortium of manufacturers? The technique is known as the solvent refined coal technique and has the capacity to improve the quality of low grade coking coal used in the metallurgical industries. Does the Minister foresee that additional development and export of low grade coal from Australia could result from this discovery? 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., in conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I draw the Minister's attention to a recent report that an American chemical engineer, Professor Richard Wainerdi, is now locating and collating volumes of documents on Germany's wartime methods of producing oil from coal. These documents fell into the hands of the United States at the end of World War II. These facts will be fed into the United States federally operated computer at Oakridge Energy Centre and the resultant information is to be made available to all interested parties. In view of the world wide energy crisis, does the Minister intend to take advantage of this service and circulate the information to our Australian scientists who are currently working on similar schemes to convert coal into oil economically? 
I wish to raise a matter this evening that has concerned me and some of my colleagues for a considerable time. When it was first brought to my attention I could not help but make the comment that Agatha Christie will not be dead until this matter is properly settled. Two of my State colleagues-  Senator Martin  and  Mr Col Lamont,  MLA, from Brisbane- have been working on this case for some time. It concerns a  Mr George  Aufferber, a scrap metal dealer and exporter of Brisbane. To understand the problem one needs to have some idea of the location of the Brisbane airport. Those who have been fortunate enough- I say that proudly- to visit the city of Brisbane in Queensland and who have arrived at the Brisbane airport would perhaps have some idea of what I am talking about. The runway of the Brisbane airport runs east-north-east to westsouthwest. The airport is bordered to the north by Brands Road. To the east it is bordered by the sea. To the south it is bordered by KingsfordSmith Drive and the Brisbane River with its wharves and jetties. To the west it is bordered by Nudgee Road.  Mr Aufferber's  scrap metal yard is situated on the eastern end of the airport between the end of the runway and the seaboard. 

 Mr President, a number of documents have been prepared for me showing dates, places, times and people's names. Rather than give them off the top of my head I would prefer to read from the documents so that there will be no misquoting or misunderstanding of what I have to say. This story goes back as far as I am concerned to 18 October 1962 when the Government gave notice to  Mr Aufferber  that the Department of Civil Aviation had decided not to proceed with the acquisition of his land. Subsequently  Mr Aufferber,  in good faith, proceeded to build up a scrap metal business. Naturally enough, the land had to be filled, scrap metal containers and fences erected, and power, water and telephone connected to the property. For this man to carry out his business all this had to be done first. This was carried out at a fair cost to the man himself. In approximately 1970 the Commonwealth Government moved to close his chief access road. This would have left him with an access which involved travelling over a crumbling wooden bridge owned by the Brisbane City 
Council and, to reach the wharves, he would have to take his scrap via a very much longer route, some 6 miles out of his way. 
In September 1970 his appeal through the Lands Administration Commission was upheld and his major access road over a safe bridge remained open. In 1972, or a little earlier, the Commonwealth resumed all land in the area including Aufferber's land and the main access route which included the safe bridge. In January 1973 the Labor City Council wrote saying that it would not carry out maintenance on the bridge and therefore the 3 ton limit imposed by it would remain in force. Aufferber was faced with 2 possibilities: First, his land would be resumed by the Commonwealth- it was finally resumed in 1974; and, secondly, the only other route involved a bridge which was unsafe and over which he could carry only a very limited amount of scrap. Meanwhile Aufferber has run into a remarkable series of accidents and departmental obstructions from other departments which I will describe in a moment. Before doing so I would like to make a few further remarks about the bridges. 
Aufferber began moves to ensure continuing access to Sugar Mill Road Bridge which is now controlled apparently by the State Transport Department. This bridge was quite sturdy and was used by Aufferber and a lot of heavy traffic. Its pylons are encased in concrete. Access to it was cut off by a gate on a nearby road between Aufferber's yard and the bridge itself. Aufferber for a time was given a key as were other people. Then mysteriously the bridge was declared unsafe. Even more mysteriously the Labor City Council in Brisbane, which is capable of almost anything anyway, wrote to  Mr Aufferber  in September 1975 to say that the limit of 3 tons would be lifted. This was signed by the City Council's chief engineer. But no substantial maintenance work had been undertaken to justify this limit. Coincidentally it was made to appear on paper that the Commonwealth now declaring the Commonwealth bridge unsafe, could not further jeopardise Aufferber's business. But in actual fact, of course, this was a gross obstacle to trading as Aufferber could not risk using the council bridge. 
I have been under the bridge in company with  Mr Col Lamont,  my State colleague. I might say without seeming to boast that I know a reasonable amount about bridges. I was a bridge carpenter or a bridge builder for a number of years. On getting underneath the bridge we were able literally to tear off at will with our bare hands pieces of rotting timber off the girders, piles, head stocks and various other pans of the bridge. To say that the bridge was safe was in my opinion a gross misstatement, if one could call it that. Planks were missing and steel bolts protruded which could tear tyres- the best tyres that anyone could make- to pieces. Apparently the Commonwealth relied heavily on the fact that the council bridge had been declared back in commission. 
I received a reply on 29 April 1976 from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  the Minister responsible for this matter, which reads: 
I regret it is not practicable to arrange for the free use of those roads which have been acquired by the Commonwealth and which have been closed to public use. These roads have been closed ... to facilitate airport development. There are however public roads available which continue to provide access to wharves and elsewhere for businesses which are still operating in this area. 
Some inconvenience may have been caused by the load limit imposed by the Brisbane City Council on the bridge on Brands Road. The Council has now confirmed that this load limit has been removed. 
-It was signed by the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers.  I believe that the answer requires a great deal of comment. How did the bridge controlled by the Commonwealth Department of Transport suddenly become unsafe? How did the bridge controlled by the Brisbane City Council suddenly become safe? Without any maintenance, without any work being done on it, all of a sudden the bridge became safe when a month or so earlier it has been declared unsafe. In my humble opinion, it is still at this moment completely unsafe. I would not even walk across it, let alone drive a vehicle across it. Was it not a coincidence- and such a convenient coincidencethat the City Council reversed its earlier and long standing decision about no further maintenance to its bridge only one week before  Senator Withers  had to give his answer in the Senate. 
I point out that the question was asked before the Council made its remarkable decision to declare unsafe the bridge about which I am talking. This question lay on the table for 29 days. Hence, we have the following scenario: My colleague,  Senator Martin,  asked  Senator Withers  about the Department of Transport's bridge on 31 March 1976.  Senator Withers  did not answer the question and during that time, on 23 April to be precise, the Chief Engineer wrote to Aufferber advising of a Council decision to reverse the long standing policy about no further maintenance to its bridge. On 29 April,  Senator Withers  was able to get out of admitting gross inconvenience to 
Aufferber 's business because of the Council's timely decision. An example of that inconvenience to Aufferber is indicated in a letter from Brambles-Ruys Pty Ltd, a transport firm, to Aufferber in which the firm states that Aufferber had a buyer in Japan to take 3500 tons of scrap and also an agreement with a ship then in Brisbane to carry the necessary quantities- some 10 ton loads- over that City Council's bridge that  Senator Withers  referred to in his answer. Now how can  Senator Withers  call that a small inconvenience? I personally do not know. In its letter, Brambles went on to say that not only was that deal lost but that it was unfortunate that its vessel could not be used because it is unlikely that it will be able to obtain such generous freight rates in the future. It may be thought that this curious tale of the bridges contains enough convenient coincidences to raise quite odious implications about government impartiality but indeed the coincidences, if not the plot, thicken further. About 18 months ago the State member for South Brisbane became interested in this case. Several initiatives taken by the government departments which tended to frustrate Aufferber 's attempts to trade seem to coincide with initiatives taken by  Mr Lamont.  He called on the offices of Messrs White and Voicy, the director and  deputy  director respectively of the Department of Administrative Services in Brisbane. For more than one hour, as  Mr Lamont  tells it, he was given what he describes as 'a run-around'. He was shown aerial maps and told general stories which led him to believe that a couple of clever Commonwealth public servants were giving the run-around to one whom they apparently thought to be a country bumpkin. They did not know, apparently, that  Mr Lamont  spent 6 years as a detective inspector of police in Hong Kong and had been over the land shown in the map inch by inch. 
At about the same time as he was querying the matter with  Senator Withers,  the Department of Transport decided to tear up the bridge.  Mr Lamont  's file of letters tells an interesting tale, stating that he communicated his doubts about the reason behind the tearing up of the bridge to  Senator Withers,  implying that this was done just to ensure that Aufferber could not still sue for access. Then  Mr Lamont  threw another spanner into the works of this plot by asking what would happen if a plane crashed in the area beyond the bridge. Clearly, it is obvious, even to blind Freddie, that rescue vehicles could not get from the airport to the crash site if the bridge were torn up. 
As a result of this inquiry and without any satisfactory answer being given the Department of Transport commenced the immediate reconstruction of the bridge. To say that the reconstruction was done in haste would be an understatement. It was completed in 3 days. This then raises the interesting question of how taxpayers' money was wasted by the apparently spiteful but pointless tactical decision to pull up the bridge in the first place.  Mr Lamont  suggests openly that the destruction and subsequent rebuilding was a farce which centred on a Department desperate to avoid having to give Aufferber the access he needed but unable to justify its action when challenged.  Mr Lamont  verbally communicated his suspicions of corruption to  Mr Voicey  of the Department of Administrative Services in Queensland. Within 10 minutes of the conclusion of that telephone conversation,  Mr Seymour  of the Department of Transport was on the line to him to assure him that it was all a mistake but quite above board. He, in fact, invited  Mr Lamont  into the office of the Department to examine some maps and documents that were associated with the entire exercise. That is indeed a curious action, if nothing else. It tells of the closeness of the old boy network operating between departments involved in the frustrations of Aufferber's business. 
When the question of compensation arose the following series of events took place: 
Aufferber placed a claim for $6 1 1,8 12. This sum included compensation for land and for resettlement. Of this figure Brambles Industries quoted Aufferber a figure of $6.20 per ton to shift him to site offered originally by the Government. Brambles estimated that there was over 1 5 000 tons to be shifted and, therefore, quoted a total of$83,000. 
The Government offer amounted to $53,000 only, that is, about two-thirds of what it would cost to shift Aufferber's scrap, not to mention his plant and equipment. In the first place, where would they shift them to? 
The Government was not offering an alternative site at this stage. Apparently originally the Government offered an alternative site in the Pinkenba industrial estate. Aufferber's solicitor, who was one of the most highly respected gentlemen in his profession in Brisbane, sought to keep negotiations open for an alternative site. The site offered was near the wharves but was much smaller in size than Aufferber's This offer included financial assistance to relocate his scrap, plant and equipment as well. This request seems to be a quite normal one. While these negotiations were still in progress the Department of Administrative Services withdrew the offer of any site at all on the grounds that this proposal was not proceeded with when it was realised that according to the trading figures made available by  Mr Aufferber,  his business was not a viable commercial proposition. This was on 19 February 1976. 
How did the Minister's advisers come to that conclusion? Compare it with the letter from Brambles-Ruys of 1 1 February, only 8 days earlier, when he was offered contracts to the sum of $150,000 approximately, allowing for fluctuations in overseas markets. Compare the Minister's statement with that from the Bank of New South Wales which on 29 January 1976, one month before the Minister's remarkable statement that Aufferber's 1974-75 turnover- when he was last able to move scrap from his property in large quantities- was $2 1 7,000 and that was in overseas transactions only. 
The same letter referred to a substantial export dealing by Aufferber prior to the beginning of 1974-75 financial year. Compare the Minister's statement with the fact that right now tens of thousands of tonnes of scrap lie wasted on Aufferber's property. To be more precise, some 4.9 hectares of property are literally covered with continuous mountains of scrap over 20 feet high. Compare the Minister's statement with a statement given to  Mr Lamont  by the Queensland  Deputy  Director of Overseas Trade that Aufferber has the scrap, the ability to trade, the expertise and reputation second to none in the State of Queensland. 
Finally, compare the Minister's statement with the fact that despite all of the obstacles placed in his way, including the problems with the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Transport Aufferber has still managed to keep a limited business going, pay all his debts, run an office close to Brisbane, pay wages to his staff, who incidentally have been with him for 16 years, and often without proper wages, trusting in the ability of Aufferber to succeed in the long run, and he has still been able to show a small profit. But this is a premature digression. I shall return to a summary of the man before I close. 
Realising that $53,000 was a laughable figure,  Mr Lamont  sought the offices of  Senator Martin  to approach  Senator Withers  to commission an independent assessment of Aufferber's business.  Senator Withers  agreed. Two highly reputable firms were commissioned- one to assess the value of the assets and the other to assess the value of the goodwill of the business. I admit that Aufferber used his accounts to his own benefit. For example, scrap is worthless unless there is a foreseeable market. Consequently few dealers will write it on as an asset at above its purchase price unless they can sell it. Thus a car body could be shown at a value of $20 only- the scrap price- whereas it sells as scrap for $40 or $50. Notwithstanding accounting anomalies of this sort, both assessors submitted reports. To this day Aufferber 's solicitor has been denied access to all of this. 
What is more remarkable, however, is that the Government's offer jumped from $53,000 to $ 1 1 5,000 which seems to me to be a most astounding variation. The Department's assessment is $53,000 but a renewed offer based on an independent assessment becomes more than twice that amount. Surely that alone indicated something a bit tainted in the State of Denmark. But that figure, too, would only just cover the cost of shifting  Mr Aufferber  without giving him a site to which to shift. Never one to be satisfied with an obvious injustice,  Mr Lamont  refused to let the matter rest. Accordingly, he sought a personal interview with  Senator Withers.  What he said to the Minister in private I personally can only guess. 
-Mr Lamont. What he said to the Minister in private I can only guess at, although knowing his ability for straight talking and the letter he wrote  Senator Withers  prior to the meeting- I shall read that letter later- knowing the kind of talking of which  Col Lamont  is capable I am sure he would have been able to get the message across to  Senator Withers  at that time.  Mr Lamont  's letter reads: 
Some time ago I raised with  Senator Martin  a problem confronting my good friend . . .  Mr George  Aufferber. I am aware of the course of  Senator Martin's  efforts through your good offices to secure justice for  Mr  Aufferber's  case. 
Several aspects of the case cause me deep concern, not least of which is the overall fact that the policies of the Whitlam Government severely disadvantaged  Mr  Aufferber's  profitability and that the change of administration to our hands has brought no relief. 
The disadvantage to  Mr Aufferber  has not brought any advantage to the Government nor has it brought any foreseeable potential advantage to the Government. The only profit in the play has been to  Mr  Aufferber's  major (if not sole) business rival. A serious question of propriety is implied. 
As Minister you can only go on hard facts, but even these I suggest do not sustain the unwillingness of your officers in Queensland to advise the opening of access to  Mr  Aufferber's  property or the offer of alternative premises by way of compensation. Your officers in this State show no inclination to support any solution which would allow  Mr Aufferber  to re-commence his personal enterprise. 
However, whilst you must weigh facts alone I, on the other hand, as a former Detective Inspector of Police am inclined to mount hypothesis on weight of probabilities. 
I am impressed by reports of the very' close personal relationship enjoyed by  Mr  Aufferber's  competitors and  Mr Whitlam  and his staff. I am further impressed by the extraordinary chapter of accidents which have plagued  Mr  Aufferber's  efforts to trade. 
When I visited the office of your officers in Queensland,  Mr White  and  Mr  Voisey  earlier this year I was led through a web of arguments and excuses which left me unimpressed and unconvinced. Indeed, I was most disappointed that your officers proceeded on the assumption that I had not done my homework. Accordingly they treated me to two hours of facile discussion and simplistic condescension. 
Soon after your personal intervention in the question (and my visit to the Queensland office), the office of  Mr  Aufferber's  solicitors was burgled. The only thing missing was  Mr  Aufferber's  file. Other disturbing and curious incidents have followed. 
A great deal of profit is at stake in the manner of resolution of this matter.  Mr Aufferber  cannot hold out forever against both Government and private competitors. A fact which some people seem to be relying upon quite heavily. 
If my present, firm belief is wrong I could do innocent people a grave injustice. Hence, I would be most grateful for the opportunity to discuss this matter with you personally before I go to bat for  Mr  Aufferber  in my own way as a back bencher seeking the final means open to defending the rights of a  harrassed  and worthy constituent. 
-The date of the letter is 29 July 1976. It was subsequent to  Mr Lamont  's visit to  Senator Withers'  office that the Queensland Transport Department controlled bridge in Sugar Mill Road, the one that had been ripped up, was restored, and that  Mr Lamont  and  Senator Martin  began asking embarrassing questions about the about face. Indeed they still ask, and I still ask: Why was the bridge torn up in the first place if it was not for the purpose of staying Aufferber's suit for access? After all, the need for the bridge was easily established. This claim was established clearly by the haste to rebuild the bridge when political questions were asked. But I have alluded to that already. 
At this point another astonishing thing happened.  Mr Lamont  and  Senator Martin  had every reason to believe that Aufferber might now gain access to the reconstructed bridge and were warming up to establish that permission. But they under estimated departmental vindictiveness. Out of the blue a State machinery and works inspector appeared on the Aufferber's side. He said he had received a complaint about a car press, which is one of those very expensive machines that reduces a whole car body to the size of a brief case.  Mr Aufferber  certainly had one but what we must know is that these presses are extremely expensive. When Sims introduced one in Sydney it received a large coverage in the Australian Press.  Mr Aufferber  has one that he built out of scrap metal. That of itself is incredible. But that is the sort of man  Mr Aufferber  is. Anyway, the inspector came to the site and immediately became embarrassed for some reason which he did not give. He then asked if he could telephone his office, which he did. He then became further embarrassed and apologised for his intrusion. He suggested that Aufferber's crew should forget he was there. He said that there had been a mistake. 

 Mr Lamont made inquiries through the Minister's office and discovered that the complaint against Aufferber had been laid by the Commonwealth Government. The obvious inference was that someone in the Commonwealth Department of Administrative Services or Department of Transport was worried that in spite of the extraordinary lengths to which they had gone to ensure that  Mr Aufferber  could not trade- by denial of access- he was now within reach of gaining that necessary access. Therefore, they had put the machinery inspector of the State department upon him. It was ascertained further that the substance of the complaint was that his press, firstly, was not built according to correct specifications and, secondly, was unregistered. The State department later agreed that these were not the sorts of reasons upon which objections normally were based. A top level investigation followed but it was obvious that the old boy net' was to frustrate any hopes of pinning vindictiveness upon a Commonwealth public servant. Nevertheless, there was never any dispute that a Commonwealth officer had indeed initiated the initial complaint which caused Aufferber this further trouble. 
As late as 9 February 1977  Mr Lamont  wrote to the Minister once again. The relevant paragraphs- from paragraph 3 onwards- are: 
This is my quote,  Senator. The  letter stated: 
The reason I am still pursuing this matter on behalf of  Mr Aufferber  is because of the reports that I have received by the independent assessors that you appointed, who give me the strong impresson  that they anticipated that the Department would resettle  Mr Aufferber,  thereby permitting him to continue to operate his business. 
I am sure you realise that the offer that has been made by your Department, as it now stands, will close  Mr Aufferber  down. The sum offered will not be enough to enable him to re-site his business. Indeed, it will not even buy a comparable piece of land anywhere in the proximity of the Brisbane wharves. 
Knowing this,  Mr  Aufferber's  competitors have recently made insulting offers to buy his scrap. 
It is my deepest regret that the only people who seem to be able to gain anything from the fact that the Government has required  Mr  Aufferber's  land for its own use are  Mr  Aufferber's  main competitors in private enterprise. This fact still offends my sense of the philosophy that I believe we stand for. 
Put bluntly, I am appealing to you to look at the case in these terms.  Mr Aufferber  was a trader. Because of the Government's need to acquire the land where his business was situated,  Mr  Aufferber's  ability to trade was obstructed and then ceased altogether. Compensation offered by the Goverment is not enough to permit  Mr Aufferber  to resume trading. To me that is the simple set of facts which must be recognised. Needless to say, I regard these circumstances as repugnant to any sense of justice. 
To compound matters,  Mr Aufferber  and those acting for him, including me, have been assured by the independent assessors here that they anticipated that resettlement of  Mr  Aufferber's  enterprise would be the logical outcome after they filed their reports. It is frustrating to know that these reasonable expectations have not been fulfilled. From the national point of view I suppose Australia stands to lose a great deal if  Mr Aufferber  is closed down. 
Is it still possible that your Department can offer a piece of land such as they did earlier in the transactions? Your Departmental Officers here maintain that  Mr Aufferber  rejected that offer.  Mr  Aufferber's  solicitor strenuously denies that that is the case. I know that that offer would be accepted if your Departmental Officers here had not advised in favour of its withdrawal. I am still at a loss when I try to understand their motive. 
Thank you once again for the amount of time you have given to this case and to my representations. 
I am 
Yours sincerely, 
In view of the hour, perhaps I should speak a little more about the person concerned.  Mr Aufferber  is a remarkable man. I think it is relevant that I say something about him. Apart from all he has suffered here in Australia, I want to talk about what he suffered before he came here. I repeat:  Mr Aufferber  is a remarkable man. He lived in Europe before the war. He was interned by the Germans. He survived, and indeed escaped from, a German concentration camp. He fled to Russia. There, refugees were treated worse than in Germany. He survived that experience and found himself in Hungary after the war. He could not abide the Russian occupation of his country and so escaped once again. He assisted in the escape of others through the underground. He arrived in the free world with nothing but his clothes and he was grossly underweight. He rehabilitated himself in Italy where he married. Ultimately he came to Australia, seeking at last a land of freedom and opportunity and, most of all, a place where his labours could reap reasonable rewards. 
Three times he failed in business and had to begin again from scratch.  His  big chance came when he won the contract to draw the old Breakfast Creek bridge- the bridge that visitors passed over on their approach to the city of Brisbane. He was approached by the Sims Metal company which wanted to buy his scrap from the bridge project at a price which he knew was a steal. He decided to market the scrap himself. He was told by the Sims company that he would never get an export licence but he thought that this was just reckless talk. Three times his application for an export licence was refused. Finally he created such a fuss that a senior officer in the then Department of Trade and Industry intervened at the desk one day. It transpired that his application had never been processed. The man who had interviewed him constantly had, subsequent to each interview, apparently obstructed the application. He resigned overnight. That man found a job with the competitor within the week. Aufferber got his licence. 
Subsequently, Aufferber decided to import a crane to assist him with his new business. It was to be shipped from England. On one occasion, the crane itself was offloaded before it left the last English port. On another occasion the crane arrived without the necessary magnet essential to its efficient operation. Ultimately, the firm selling the equipment had to air freight the remaining parts. On investigation, it was found that the shipping company was controlled by Patrick Ltd, whose  chairman  was also the  chairman  of the board of the Sims Metal Company- an unfortunate coincidence, one might say. On another later occasion Aufferber had his scrap at the wharves, only to be frustrated in his attempt to export by the Department of Customs and Excise Department which raised a minor technicality. On that occasion he was able to call on his new contacts at the Department of Overseas Trade and they got him out of the dilemma. More recently, and particularly since State and Federal members have been interested, Aufferber has had - 
I have only one page to go. I would prefer to read it. More recently, and particularly since State and Federal members have been interested, Aufferber has had more irregular setbacks.  His  solicitor's office was broken into. The only thing stolen was Aufferber's file. That coincided with  Mr Lamont  's intrusion into the case. Clearly someone wanted to know the extent of that intrusion. Aufferber's largest truck was blown up. There were no witnesses and the police could do nothing. Aufferber's watchdog was shot on the premises of the scrap metal yard. 
Another scrap dealer in Brisbane attests that he received a strong suggestion to give an opinion that Aufferber's business was not viable because of the makeshift nature of the equipment upon which Aufferber was relying. He refused to do so, but there is nothing by way of hard evidence to go on in spite of his insistence that the suggestion was made strongly in a context that could affect his future. Sims was a member of the Whitlam entourage which went to Japan and China. Honourable senators should remember that all this began during the Whitlam regime. 
I think those remarks are sufficient to show that this man has suffered greatly. He came to this country because he believed he was coming to a free country, a country that believed in free enterprise. He came to a country where he believed that a man, by the sweat of his brow, by his own initiative and by his own hard work, could get somewhere in life. All he has had in these last few years, particularly since 1972, has been constant frustration by people who should be assisting him in every way to carry on his business. I hope that having given this matter a bit of airing here tonight something can be done for a man who I believe is worthy of calling himself, as he does, a true blue Australian. 
-Could the Minister for Veterans' Affairs inform me why returned soldiers from other Commonwealth countries who are eligible for and receive Service pensions in this country do not receive any of the supplementary concessions such as medical, main roads registration, rates, rail and bus, etc., that are presently enjoyed by their Australian counterparts? Does not this appear to be unfair discrimination against those men who also fought and made many sacrifices in the cause of world peace? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I draw the Minister's attention to the recent report of the United States National Transportation Study Board dealing with an intensive study of the lifestyle of pilots, in and out of the cockpit, to see whether fatigue and imprecise crew communications are major factors in airline accidents. Is the Minister aware of this report? If so, will it be made available to the appropriate officers of the Department for study? 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that President Carter of the United States of America intends to grant substantial tax relief to families and businesses that install solar energy equipment? Will the Minister recommend to the Treasurer that a similar proposal be considered as an incentive to Australian families and businesses to help to conserve our energy resouces? 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources to a recent report that some overseas countries are making heavy investments in the United States fishing industry to circumvent the newly introduced 200-mile fisheries conservation zone. These countries will share the priority fishing rights with United States-owned concerns by operating vessels built in the United States of America and flying the American flag. This influx of foreign investment has stirred Congress to move next July to investigate the regulation of ownership of the United States fishing industry. I ask: Can the Minister assure me that this Government will also legislate to protect our fishing industry from back door moves similar to those I have described. 
-I present the report of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator BONNER (Queensland )-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
On the second occasion in the space of 12 months, it is my privilege to rise and present to the Senate a far reaching and searching report on the important issues affecting my people- the Aborigines of Australia. It is indeed a pleasure, as the lone Aboriginal Federal member of Parliament to table before honourable senators the report of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights- a committee which I had the honour to chair for most of its inquiries and deliberations. 
Whilst I present this report, which is that of the majority of" the Committee, and naturally I am bound by it- I feel that I would be remiss and failing in my duty towards my people if I did not express my disappointment that the Government saw fit to abdicate its total responsibility to the Aboriginal people and to condone the proposed introduction of complementary legislation dealing with Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I say that the Government has avoided an area of responsibility given to it by the people of Australia in the referendum of 1 967. This is my sole criticism of an otherwise long, arduous and fruitful inquiry into a question which has vexed my people for nigh on 200 years- that is, the ownership of their traditional lands. 
An Aborigine's affinity with the land has no comparable conception to the white Australians, who look upon land in a materialistic manneras something to be enjoyed to the exclusion of others, to be guarded against and walled off from all others and to be viewed purely as an item of social wealth and standing within the community. The British concept, that a man's home is his castle and no man dare take it from him, is in complete contrast, I believe, to the meaning which my people have always had concerning their beloved earth. Land, to the Aborigine, is the whole of his being, the place of the spirits, the churches and the home and source of life itself. It is the place where human spirits dwell before birth and after death. Ultimately it is the extension of our souls. 
I feel that all members of the Committee were affected and moved by this strange and mystical love of my people for their land. As the hearings progressed they too became more aware of the uniqueness and fierceness of this great love that my people have for their land. After it was established in December 1976, the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory held 1 1 days of public hearings- eight in the Northern Territory and three in Canberra. Evidence was taken from 65 persons. Towards the end of the inquiry the Committee divided into sub-committees for visits to 16 Aboriginal communities for discussions with Aboriginal leaders on the subject matter of the inquiry. 
In clause (A) of its terms of reference the Committee was requested to examine and report on the provisions of the Land Rights Act relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of Aboriginal traditional owners to the satisfaction of the relevant land councils. 
I deal now with the identification of traditional owners. Evidence put to the Committee indicated that tribal people generally knew who were the traditional owners of the land and that disputes about ownership of land were rare indeed. Because of this and other evidence placed before it, the Committee concluded that the methods adopted to date by both land councils are appropriate in order to identify the Aboriginal traditional owners. However, both land councils expressed concern at the pressure by various interests to identify traditional owners. The Committee believes that as a result of this pressure there is a risk that identification may not be as thorough as is considered necessary. The Committee stresses that part of the Government's on-going responsibility is to ensure that the land councils and the agencies involved in the identification process have adequate time and resources to carry out the necessary procedures for identification. 
The Committee concluded that generally the procedures of consultation with traditional owners adopted by the land councils are appropriate. However, the Committee found that in some instances the communication of land council decisions was ineffective, particularly where a delegate may not have the necessary clarity of explanation. The Committee considers that trained Aboriginal officers of the land councils should be made available to explain any intended action of the councils to Aboriginal groups or to traditional owners. 
I turn now to the Northern Territory legislation. In clause (B) of its terms of reference the Committee was requested to report on the adequacy of provisions of the law of the Northern Territory relating to entry to Aboriginal land, the protection of sites of significance, wildlife conservation and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land. Under the Land Rights Act the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory is empowered to make ordinances in respect of these matters, hence the reciprocal legislation. In accordance with this power the Aboriginal Lands and Sacred Sites Bill was introduced into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on 3 March 1977. This Bill which relates to the protection of sites of significance, entry to Aboriginal land and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land, lapsed on the dissolution of the previous Assembly. The wildlife conservation aspect is covered in the Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Ordinance which was assented to on 26 May 1977. 
The Committee considers that the main deficiency in the Aboriginal Lands and Sacred Sites Bill was that the role of the Land Councils was reduced and as such did not accord with Federal Government policy. The Committee also considers that some of the provisions of the Bill were complex and confusing and could lead to uncertainty and delay in administration and enforcement. Many problems associated with the reciprocal legislation would have been overcome if close and meaningful consultation had been undertaken in the first instance by all parties concerned and because of this the Committee has concluded that such consultation should take place before the reciprocal legislation is reintroduced into the new Assembly. 
The Committee believes that in relation to entry to Aboriginal land the Northern Territory legislation should contain the following provisions: Power to delegate by the Land Councils; permits to include conditions laid down by traditional owners; conditions to include that a person should leave the land if requested by the traditional owners; power to revoke permit with penalty for non-compliance; the right for a community occupying land not occupied by the traditional owners to issue permits to allow visits to that community; the traditional owner to have power to delegate; the traditional owner to give permission to enter his land in circumstances where it is not practicable to obtain permits from a Land Council; and that officials, politicians and police should notify in advance their intention to enter Aboriginal land. 
In respect of sacred sites the Committee believes that the Western Australian Aboriginal Heritage Act should be examined and where appropriate its provisions adopted. In particular any legislation should make provision for the initiative for the protection of sacred sites to rest with the Aboriginals themselves. A statutory authority with Land Council representation should be established and be responsible for coordination of requests for protection, the initiation of prosecution and establishing the most appropriate method of protection in each circumstance. Sign posting and fencing should be avoided where possible. Is should be mandatory for prior adequate consultation to be held between organisations and individuals and the relevant Land Council. If there is any proposed activity that requires earth works or clearing the maximum penalty for desecration should be imposed and the onus of proof to establish that the desecration was not wilful should rest with the defendant. 
In relation to wildlife conservation, while the Committee concludes that the provisions of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Ordinance are generally adequate some amendments are needed to make provision for the Wildlife Commission to negotiate and conclude agreements with the relevant Land Councils to protect fauna and to ensure that Aboriginals have a right to kill wildlife for food and ceremonial purposes in cases where there is no agreement with the Commission. 
In respect of entry to seas adjacent to Aboriginal land, the strong views expressed to the Committee give credence to the suggestion that control of the seas by Aboriginals could give rise to ill feelings between the Aboriginal and nonAboriginal communities. As far as nonAborigines were concerned there was ample evidence that there was substantial recreational use of the waters in the large centres of nonAboriginal population, such as Gove. Barramundi fishing is taking place within 2 kilometres of Aboriginal land or land under Aboriginal claim. The Committee notes that the Land Rights Act was drawn up so as to preserve existing rights. The provisions relating to mining are the most obvious example of this. The Committee is aware of the strong desire by Aboriginals to obtain rights over the 2 kilometres area. These expectations were raised in the Aboriginal community following recommendations by the 
Woodward Commission. The Committee believes that the non-fulfilment of these expectations could also have serious repercussions. The Committee is of the view that sacred sites within the sea should be protected. The Committee has endeavoured to formulate a proposal which takes account of the various points of view presented to it and the needs of the whole community. It therefore proposes that Northern Territory legislation should make provision for the following: 
The right of Aboriginals to enter and use the resources of all waters adjoining and within 2 kilometres of the land in accordance with Aboriginal tradition. This right is to include the closing of areas of the sea which are of significance to Aboriginal communities either for traditional use, enjoyment of the waters or for the creation of buffer zones; 
the adjoining areas in substantial nonAboriginal centres of population to be opened for recreational use; 
the rights of existing commercial fishing licences to be retained and that new fishing licences be issued only after consultation between the Fisheries Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory and the relevant Land Council; and 
the Aboriginal Land Commissioner to arbitrate in cases where disagreements arise between non-Aboriginal and Aboriginal interests over the use of the seas 2 kilometres from Aboriginal land. 
The majority of the Committee believes that the Parliament should maintain a continuing oversight of the administration of the Land Rights Act to ensure that the letter and spirit of the Act has been observed. The report accordingly recommends that the Parliament establish a committee to inquire further into the operation of the Lands Rights Act. In conclusion I should like to make some brief comments on the dissenting report by the honourable Gordon Bryant and the honourable Les Johnson. I refer specifically to paragraph 8 of that dissenting report and I will read it if I may. It reads: 
that due to the restraints in time a properly prepared final draft or the  Report  has not been circulated to members for their considered response before presentation to the Parliament; 
I would be very disturbed indeed- I am sure I speak for all Committee members- should that comment be taken in any way to be a criticism of the secretary and the officers who worked with the Committee. I want to say on behalf of the 
Committee and myself in particular a very sincere thank you and to express a heartfelt gratitude to the secretary and all the members of the staff who assisted during the length of this inquiry. They worked arduously. They worked, I believe, far and beyond the call of duty. I believe that there are occasions when the secretarys' work is sometimes impeded and made very hard by members of committees. Men like me and I suppose women in the Parliament sometimes can be most frustrating to a committee secretariat. I believe than any praise that we can heap upon the secretariat is well warranted. I thank the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface the question by reminding the Minister that onethird of the entire Aboriginal population of this nation dwells within my State of Queensland and that, to service the needs of my people, the Department of Social Security employs one Aboriginal welfare officer,  Mrs Una  Watson, who to my amazement and dismay is employed on a temporary basis only.  Her  tenure of employment is due to expire some time in September this year. Will the Minister assure me that  Mrs Watson  will forthwith be permanently employed by her Department and that immediate consideration will be given to employing others of my race within her Department to provide these essential services? 
I wish to take up a short amount of the time of the Senate this evening to pay a tribute to a very close friend and colleague from my State of Queensland who passed away today at approximately I a.m. I refer to the Honourable Keith Hooper, Minister for Transport in the Queensland Government.  Mr Hooper  was a great Australian. He served Australia during a time of war and he served Australia through the State of Queensland in the Queensland Parliament as a Minister from 1972. He was the Liberal member for Greenslopes. He entered the State Parliament of Queensland in 1957, winning the seat of Buranda from the State Labor Party which had held it for almost 50 years.  Mr Hooper  served with the Australian Imperial Forces, 2/10 Field Regiment of the 8th Division from 1940 to 1946. He was a prisoner-of-war in Changi from 1942 to 1943 and a slave labourer in Japan from 1943 to 1945. 
I wish to pay a tribute to this fine Australian- a fine Australian who served, as I said earlier, his country in more ways than one. He was a great Australian. He was a great Queenslander. Queensland will certainly be the poorer for his passing. The Queensland Government certainly will be the poorer for losing a Minister and a fine gentleman of the calibre of  Mr Keith  Hooper. To his wife and two daughters I express in this Parliament this evening as my forum my deepest sympathy on the bereavement, the loss of a husband, a father and a great Queenslander, and my personal feelings for a great friend indeed. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by referring to remarks made in this chamber last Wednesday night by  Senator Cavanagh  when he stated that he had been on a number of committees and that no one took any notice of their reports and recommendations. He cited as an example the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Can the Minister inform the Senate how many of the 97 recommendations of that Committee have been accepted by the Government? Further, can the Minister inform the Senate how many of those recommendation are currently being acted upon by the Government? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw her attention to a revolutionary advance in brain surgery which has been pioneered by Britain's sole female neurosurgeon, Miss Cary Bannister, which has brought fresh hope to millions of people threatened by strokes. I understand that Miss Bannister uses minute needles, a microscope and watchmakers' forceps and has devised a new system of supplying blood to the brain when it is threatened by clogging arteries. I also draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this surgeon has published a paper concerning her work in the British Medical Journal. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. No doubt the Minister is aware of the great loss of livestock which results from cancerous tumors of the eye and that the present treatment of this condition is extremely difficult and expensive. I draw the Minister's attention to the new technique which has been developed in the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory in New Mexico which involves the use of a hand held electronic device that heats the tumor with a high frequency electronic current, destroying the cancer cells. The device is powered by a 12 volt battery and is easily handled by a farmer without veterinary experience. I ask: If it is not already being done, will the Minister investigate this new procedure to assist our cattlemen and bring some relief to this industry? 
Having in mind the time, I welcome the opportunity to make some comment on the report that has been tabled by our very able  Chairman, Senator Jessop.  I wish to pay tribute to the secretariat and to all the Committee members who worked on the report. Perhaps one could say that the report and the Senate's having the Science and Environment Committee look at this particular issue, was prompted by the concern expressed by many conservationists, environmentalists and others on this subject. Perhaps one could also say at the same time that a little too much emotion was engendered in the debate in the early stages because of the concern expressed in relation to the woodchip industry of this country. The Committee travelled extensively and received contributions from many, many people, all of which allowed and assisted us to bring in this report. They included environmentalists, conservationists and people in and outside the industry itself; there were foresters and many others, and after spending much time in the field, and hearing evidence, the report was brought in. Quite a few years ago I was involved in a conservation matter and, in giving a speech on the subject boiled it down- and I suppose one could say this as far as the woodchip industry also is concerned- as involving the four Cs; conservation, commerce, co-operation and plain good Aussie commonsense. I think if we proceed on those four principles the woodchip industry can be utilised in this country to create employment opportunities for many, provided the recommendations that were brought down by our committee are strictly adhered to. I believe both State and Federal governments have a responsibility to ensure that they are implemented so that some of our great forests will not be destroyed and their use denied to future generations. By the same token, although governments can do much, they can only do it where they have the responsibility, that is, in the control of State forests. 
One of the things that does concern me is the approach of the private owner. No one has control over private areas. In Tasmania we saw evidence of the fact that certain private owners of freehold land who were also involved in the woodchip industry had not exercised the control that had been exercised in the State forests of Tasmania and Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. So although this report and its recommendations can be followed by the State governments, and by the Federal Government where it has the responsibility, it is difficult to police it on privately owned land. 
Recently I had reason to be proud of the fact that this report had been produced. Having visited the state of Washington in the United States I went to a little place called Shelton just outside Olympia where Simpson's timber industry had been operating for well over 150 years. Strange to say, my wife lived there some 20 years ago. She was able to tell me that despite that long interval she could see no detrimental effect to the environment as a result of the operations of the woodchipping and timber industry generally. This goes to show that, with proper precautions and properly organised industries, the job can be done without destroying the forests. I was able to show the general manager of Simpsons and the Mayor of Shelton our woodchip industry report. They were very impressed by it and, having looked through their forests I could see that what we were recommending was already being implemented in that area. It gave me a sense of pride to think that our recommendations were already being implemented by another country on the other side of the world. 
With those few remarks, and in view of the time element, I would only express finally my great thanks to Peter Dawe, the secretariat and my fellow committee members. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. As the election for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee will be held on 19 November 1977, will the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has given consideration to encouraging the new members to join a superannuation scheme? 
-I take a great deal of pleasure in entering into this debate this evening. I support the Government and I support the motion moved by  Senator Cotton  in relation to the Budget put down by the Treasurer, the Honourable Phillip Lynch. I am a little disappointed that the previous speakerSenator Keeffe- is not in the chamber this evening. Prior to the suspension of the sitting this chamber, unfortunately, was subjected once again to a lot of waffle, innuendoes and incorporations in  Hansard  of material prepared by someone other than the honourable senator who was on his feet at the time. I am waiting for the day when the honourable senator will stand up in the chamber and make a speech of some substance. I support the Budget because I believe that it is a good Budget. I am surprised and disappointed that during the course of the whole debate on the Budget a great deal of criticism has been levelled at it by members of the Opposition, who unfortunately are conspicuous by their absence from the chamber this evening. 
There is only one member of the Opposition in the chamber and he is making noises.  (Quorum formed).  It is very enlightening to know that, even though a quorum is now present, there is still a notable absence of the members of the Opposition who have consistently - 
I think there are three of them on the other side of the chamber. Those people who have been so vitally concerned about and critical of the Budget brought down by the Treasurer show that level of their interest and concern by their absence from the chamber at this time. As I was saying earlier - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Georges,  you must cease interjecting like that. 

 Senator Georges- I am not interjecting; I am just counting the number of honourable senators in the chamber. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You should not count them aloud. If you want to interject you must make pertinent comment. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I have observed that and will take note of it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! That sort of levity will have to cease. A very important matter is before the Senate. 
The very important matter that is before the chamber is the Budget that was bought down by the Treasurer, the Honourable Phillip Lynch. That is under discussion at the moment and has been under discussion for some days now. Before I was rudely interrupted by an honourable senator opposite, I was mentioning the fact that the previous speakerSenator Keeffe- subjected this chamber and the public of Australia to a lot of innuendoes and incorporations in  Hansard. 
I want to refer specifically to a matter that  Senator Keeffe  mentioned during the course of his speech. I refer to his criticism of the Minister for Social Security, the Honourable Margaret Guilfoyle. During the course of his speech  Senator Keeffe  said some things that I certainly would not say to any Minister, particularly when that Minister happens to be a lady. He referred in a disparaging way to her feelings for the aged and senior citizens of our country. I want to follow up what he said in relation to a particular matter. He referred to the collapse of one of the building societies in Queensland and the unfortunate incident that could have caused some concern to some of our aged citizens in Queensland. I have before me a document that proves that, despite what  Senator Keeffe  said, the Minister is a person of great compassion, understanding and concern, not only for our aged people but for all those people who are in need and who come under her responsibility as the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a letter that she wrote on the subject. I will read the whole letter even though it may take a little time. I think the important contents of this letter should be read out at this time, in view of the criticism that was levelled at the Minister by  Senator Keeffe.  The letter states: 
I refer to your telegram of 30 September concerning payments to pensioners affected by the closure of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. 
As soon as it became known that some 3,800 pensioners would not be able to receive the payments forwarded on their behalf to the Society, action was taken towards the introduction of special arrangements under which those pension instalments, due on 29 September, could be paid. 
With the approval of the Acting Treasurer, the Honourable Eric L. Robinson, M.P., replacement cheques have been issued to those pensioners who have given an assignment to the Commonwealth of their right to receive the amount due on 29 September and paid to the Society for crediting to their account. 
Already, some 3,500 replacement cheques have been issued and further applications are receiving urgent attention as they are lodged. Some pensioners have indicated that they are prepared to wait for release of their money from the society. I very much regret that some uncertainties arose whilst the situation was being clarified and until alternative arrangements were authorised. However, I am sure you will agree that the prompt actions taken minimised hardship that may otherwise have resulted for the pensioners affected. 
Yours sincerely, 
Margaret Guilfoyle 
That gives the lie to the criticism that was levelled at the Minister in this chamber this evening. Having taken care of that matter, perhaps I should move on to other aspects of the Budget. I am concerned, as I am sure all of my colleagues on this side of the chamber are concerned, that sufficient money is not available at the moment to enable us to do all the things that we as a government and as a group of concerned people would like to do for all the people for whom we accept responsibility as their elected representatives in this Parliament, whether it be in the other place or in this chamber. There has been a great deal of criticism of the Government- even this evening the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is perhaps more of a shadow than a Minister, criticised the Government- because there is not sufficient money for Aboriginal affairs. I, being an Aborigine, am also concerned about that. I would have hoped that more money would have been allocated so that we could have done all those things that I am sure that we, as Aborigines, would like done on our behalf. We, the Aboriginal people, are not the only people who are suffering in the economic climate of today. Let me say that the economic climate that we are suffering today has not been brought about by the present Government. If one goes back to 1972 or earlier and examines the record of the Government of that day, a government of the same political belief as the present Government, one will find that in the 23 years that the Liberal-National Country parties were in government this country was certainly going ahead. There was prosperity and people were able to do the things that they wanted to do for themselves. 
Unfortunately, there was a thought throughout the community-  Senator Georges  was one of those who promoted the idea- that it was time for a change. Goodness, gracious me, we had a change in 1972, 1973, 1974 and up to 1975 when the people of Australia suddenly decided that that change was not in the best interests of the Australian people. I refer again to 1972. Let us examine the record. At that time, unemployment was less than 100,000; inflation was about 4.2 per cent; the deficit was certainly nothing like it was after the three years of incompetence and lack of understanding exhibited by the Government that came to power. What did we see? In that three years we saw inflation rise to about 15 per cent. We saw unemployment reach something like 300,000 to 350,000. We saw incompetence and handouts and all the things that go along with that until the Labor Party found that the barrel was not bottomless as it thought it was. Consequently, we then found that the people of Australia could see that this was not the Government that this country needed, that it was not a competent government. In 1975, fortunately, the people woke up to this fact and tossed out the Government. We then inherited these problems. We inherited the high rate of unemployment. We inherited high inflation and we inherited a deficit of almost $3,000m. 
We have been in government for less than two years,  Senator Georges,  and our policies are working. The Government has worked consistently.  Senator Georges  has moved back to his own seat and that is a jolly good idea. If he is not sitting in his own seat he does not have the right to interject. I am told that interjections are unruly, but that would not worry  Senator Georges.  That is typical of the people who sit on the Opposition benches, anyway. The Government has been consistent. We said in our policy speech in 1975 that our main concern would be to bring down the rate of inflation so that we could get Australia going again and we could get the people back to work. That is exactly what we have done. Our record is there for all to see. We have brought the inflation rate down to almost a single digit from the almost 15 per cent it had reached under the previous Government. We brought it down to almost a single digit. It is now a little over 9 per cent. When we get the inflation rate down to a workable percentage and we get the people back to work Australia will be back where it was in 1 972. 
So much for that part of what I wanted to say tonight. There are several other matters on which I want to touch. The matter that comes to mind so readily is one that is of great importance, I believe, to the Aboriginal community. I know there are people in this chamber and others who will read my speech in  Hansard  who will say: 'There he goes again. He is back on the Aboriginal question'. I should like to say in this chamber tonight that whilst I am very conscious of my responsibilities, which embrace all the people in Queensland and all the people in Australia, I believe that interwoven with those responsibilites is my love of race and my burning desire to do whatever I can to ease the lot of my Aboriginal fellows and to do whatever I possibly can to improve the conditions under which my fellow Aborigines live at this time. Despite the fact that I am a senator for the Commonwealth and that I may be able to do certain things myself, I am an Aboriginal father, I have five Aboriginal sons, I have two Aboriginal daughters and I have 19 Aboriginal grandchildren. So I intend, for a short time, to speak about matters that concern the Aboriginal race of this nation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! There is too much audible conversation in groups throughout the chamber.  Senator Bonner  is addressing the chamber on the Budget Papers. I call  Senator Bonner. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  That is typical of all occasions when matters pertaining to the indigenous people of this country are being discussed. Some honourable senators opposite show a little concern for these matters on occasions, but fortunately honourable senators on this side of the chamber are very concerned for Aboriginal affairs and have supported the Aboriginal people in a positive way- in a way which unfortunately some other people have not done in the past and I am afraid will not do in the future. The matter that I want to discuss briefly is the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee which will be going to the polls on 19 November this year. When this organisation was first set up by the previous government I was one of those honourable senators who stood up in this chamber and made a speech during the adjournment debate criticising the previous government for the manner in which the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee was being set up at that time. The time allotted for the education- if one might use that term- of the Aboriginal populace of the country was not laid down. What the NACC was about and what its responsibilities would be was certainly lacking. There was a short space of time when people were sent out to enrol Aboriginal people for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. The Aboriginal people themselves did not know what it was all about, what the responsibilities of the NACC would be or how it would be able to achieve its goals. I certainly was concerned about many aspects of it. 
I made a speech in this chamber that I think lasted for some 1 5 or 20 minutes. I condemned the previous government for the manner in which it was setting up the NACC. That Committee has been operating for almost three years. During that time there was confusion, a lack of understanding of what its role was, how it would service the Aboriginal people, what authority it had and a host of other problems. Consequently if one recalls the Press articles that appeared during those three years one will be aware that there was confrontation between the NACC and two Ministers under the previous government- or, I suppose one could say, three Ministers. Sometimes one loses count of the number of Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs during the Labor Government's three years. In a matter of three years I think there were three separate Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs. There was no consistency whatsoever. There were many confrontations between the Ministers and members of the Aboriginal community. I recall one evening in this place when I was putting down the motion that was accepted by the Senate- unfortunately, it was put into limbo by the previous governmentabout compensation to the Aboriginal people for dispossession that the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs took up, I think, 1 5 or 20 minutes ofthe time of this chamber to try to stop me from moving that motion. As I walked out after moving it and making my speech, the Aborigines who were in the chamber at the time asked, 'Is he the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or the Minister for White Backlash?' Those are the kinds of Ministers we had dealing with Aboriginal affairs in the previous Government. 
As I said, there was then all this kind of turmoil, but I am now happy to say that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, who is in my opinion the best Minister to hold the portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs since it was created, is a man of great compassion and understanding for the Aboriginal people. He can sit with them regardless of where they come from, be it the cities, the urban areas, the Gulf of Carpentaria or the Cape York Peninsula. Indeed, I had the experience of sitting with him in the company of a group of people at the Aurukun mission station in Queensland during the controversy over bauxite mining and the treatment of the Aboriginal community by the Government of Queensland. The Minister sat on the ground for some four hours talking and listening to the Aboriginal people. 

 - Senator Georges is making a lot of sounds over there, but he would not know what he was talking about because he would not know an Aboriginal if he fell over one. 
-At Aurukun, the Minister sat on the ground with the Aboriginal tribal leaders and, having listened to them, and having been able to communicate with them, was able to come back to Canberra and, with myself, spend some time with the Prime Minister discussing the subject. It was because of his fight, and my fight, and our being able to put a decent case before the Prime Minister, that the bauxite mining company was frustrated in its efforts. The Prime Minister said, 'Unless there is proper consultation with the Aboriginal people on Aurukun the Federal Government will not issue an export licence.' So millions of dollars in bauxite earnings went down the drain because the Aboriginal people had not been consulted in the first place. 
The concern of the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is such that he has now restructured the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. As I understand it, there will be three fields of activity: The Aboriginal people in the States will elect their representatives, discuss the matters that concern them and set their priorities and goals. Another body will comprise members of the consultative committees from each State and it, in turn, will discuss problems and establish priorities as the information comes in from the various State bodies. Then there will be a national body made up of ten members that will have direct access to the Minister and will set forth its policies and priorities and what it believes should be done. Such access will give them, through the party room, a direct pipeline to the Cabinet, to the Government proper. Both legislation and policy will then be determined in the light of information that has come directly from the Aboriginal people. This is the kind of thing that needs to happen- the government listening directly to their voice. We will have in that party room people such as Senators Chaney, Baume and Knight, and a host of others from this side that I could mention, and policies will be determined having in mind the priorities set by Aboriginal people themselves. This is what is needed, as I am reminded in moving around my own and other States. 
I had the opportunity yesterday to discuss, in the State of Victoria, with members of both the Monash and Melbourne universities, the subject of land rights and compensation for dispossession. I was there able to meet Aboriginal people, involved in Aboriginal affairs, who were able to tell me directly what the problems were and what the Government should do. There certainly is a shortage of finance for this activity, but unless this kind of information is collated and adequately assessed the present problems will continue. We want the organisations that are working for the benefit of the indigenous people, for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders alike, to have the finance needed to carry out their programs. Many people make the serious mistake of believing that this is being done for the benefit only of the indigenous people of this country. In fact, it is being done for the benefit of Australia as a whole, because the people can make a contribution only if they have the wherewithal to do it. This nation can prove in this matter an example to the rest of the world. 
-You should have been here earlier when I was recalling a few of the things that had happened while you were Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
At least there is now a straight and fair dinkum communication, and that is a start in the right direction. When you were Minister you could not even sit down and talk to Aborigines because you were so involved in other affairs and so scared of white backlash that you were not able to do the job properly. 
Another matter that concerns me deeply, and to which I have made reference over a considerable time, even mentioning it, I think, when  Senator Cavanagh  was Minister, and certainly in discussions with the previous Director,  Mr Barrie  Dexter, with the present Minister and with the new Director,  Mr David  Hay. That is the matter of housing for Aboriginal people, a very important aspect. Unless people are decently employed and housed, all of the other improvements proposed will have no effect. One can make available to people, whether Aborigines or not, opportunities for better education and health facilities, but unless their children can come home to a decent home with an environment where they can sit down and do their homework, it is all to no avail;  so housing is  a very important factor for consideration. 
Under both the previous Government and the present Government the mistake has been made of not setting up in each State a single purchasing authority for the acquisition of homes for Aboriginal people. This Government, foolishly I believe, followed the lead of the previous Government in this regard and rather unwisely set up a number of Aboriginal housing societies. In my own State of Queensland there are about 25 or 30 Aboriginal housing co-operatives, as I believe they are called. Each one of the housing cooperatives has had to set up its own administration. They have a field officer, a secretary in an office who does all the typing and paper work, an administrator, and then a lawyer or a solicitor to do the conveyancing. In fact they are probably each employing four, five or six people. If that figure is multiplied by the 20 societies in the State of Queensland, a whole host of people are set up in the various areas. 
There is nothing wrong with that I suppose, in a sense, in answer to  Senator Georges,  whose head seems to rattle every time he gets a notion. Let us consider this in a sensible and rational way. Let us suppose that the Government, in its wisdom or otherwise, said that it would allocate Sim to the State of Queensland for Aboriginal housing. There are 25 organisations which would all be clamouring for a share of that Sim, 25 organisations which would have to be serviced, and out of that $ 1 m they would have to get their share to run their own administration. I hope that Aboriginal people are concerned enough to want to improve the lot of their own people in their own areas. Let us consider a situation where we have a single purchasing authority with an administrator, a secretary to run the office, and a solicitor employed to do the conveyancing and handle all the legal matters. As well as that, the services of someone from the Valuer-General's office is utilised. The single purchasing authority has $ 1 m allocated to it for housing. It may cost $50,000 to run its office, so the balance is the difference between that $50,000 and the allocation of Sim. The authority would contact those interested and concerned people who at present make up the housing co-operatives but who would now be unpaid. All they would be paid is their outofpocket expenses if they want to run around. Each of the groups would be asked about their needs. Let us take Ipswich as an example. The field officer for the single purchasing authority would go to Ipswich and ask what their need was in that area. He might be told that there are 10 families in Ipswich who need to be housed. The field officer would go to Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mareeba and so on and work out the number of houses required. He would then come back to Brisbane and say: 'We have got $ 1 m and we need 100 houses. Ipswich cannot have 10 houses this year, it can have only nine. Toowoomba cannot have eight houses, it can have only six.' The authority would work out what it could afford to do with the amount of money available. But consider the savings. Instead of the 25 different groups all getting a cut of the $ 1 m, only one body would be getting a cut. The rest of the money would go into housing, and that is most important. 
The most important thing to me,  Senator Georges,  is that Aboriginal people, Aboriginal children, get into a decent house. That is important, not the employment of an Aborigine or a white bloke to rip off pan of the money so that it does not get to housing, and that is what is going on throughout the length and breadth of Australia. When the Government sets aside a certain amount of money there are many rip-offs in many areas, and I would say that 75 per cent of the money set aside by the Government is going in rip-offs for feasibility studies and other studies instead of going to the grass roots level where it is needed, where babies are dying, where children are sleeping eight and ten to a room. The money is not going into housing or health care. It is not getting to the areas where it is needed. It is going into rip-offs by blacks and whites. That is what is happening, and as a place to start cleaning up that kind of thing, what about housing? What better place to start? We could have a single purchasing authority so that in each State of the Commonwealth when money is allocated for housing it will get to housing and not to all the people who are getting a rip-off on the way. I hope that the Government and my colleagues are able to see that. I know that there are many wise people on this side of the chamber who support me, and I hope that we can sit down and discuss this matter and get to the point where money can be put where it is needed and not allowed to be ripped-off by some smart-Alick, whether he be an educated Aborigine - 
I am accustomed to that kind of criticism from those who have no real feelings and understanding. Honourable senators on the other side of the chamber are supposed to be the champions of the underdog, the champions of the Aborigines, yet  Senator Cavanagh  can stand up in this chamber and call an Aborigine a hypocrite.  Senator Cavanagh  should be the last person to say something like that to me. As I said earlier, I recall an occasion in this chamber when  Senator Cavanagh  did everything he possibly could do to prevent me doing something that was in the best interests of the Aboriginal people and, I believe, of Australia as a whole. Be that as it may, I should like now to refer to a debate that occurred here last week. Unfortunately I was not able to get a guernsey in that debate although I would very much have liked to. 

 - Senator Georges, you can follow me if you so desire and say what you want, but I would appreciate it if at least you would have the courtesy to hear me out. Then if you want to criticise anything I have said you will be free to do so. 
You can follow,  Senator Cavanagh.  As I have said, the matter with which I want to deal now relates to the debate on unemployment that took place here last week. I do not suppose that more concern has been or ever will be shown in relation to the unemployment of people in Australia than has been shown by the people who sit on this side of the chamber. I am certainly very concerned and I would do anything that is humanly possible to alleviate the suffering of people who are unemployed. As I said earlier in my speech, I do not think at the moment the Opposition, which was in government for 3 years, has anything to crow about. In my opinion, it was responsible for the creation of the unemployment we are experiencing at the moment. Over the two years we have been in government we have endeavoured to do something about it, and I suppose the most important thing at the moment is to bring down unemployment. I am concerned for the genuinely unemployed, and anyone on the other side of the chamber who calls me a worker basher or a union basher would not have the faintest concept of what he was talking about. I want people to understand that I have been a labourer- not Labor but a labourer- all my life. 
I proudly support the Party to which I belong because I believe that it has more concern for the working man than has ever been truly shown by those who sit on the other side. Let us get that clear. I am neither a union basher nor a worker basher. I have been a worker all my life. 

 -If Senator Cavanagh had done the kind of work I have done in my life, he would have a greater understanding of what it is all about. I do not suppose that he would work in an iron lung. While I am dealing with unemployment, let us look at this side of the matter: In my view, much of the unemployment is caused by the actions of those in the extreme left wing of the unions- those people who have no concern for the workers although they collect the union dues and are paid by the workers. They have no real understanding of what it is all about. It is these people who are responsible, to a large extent, for unemployment in this country. Let us look in a rational and sensible way at the demands for higher wages and the demands for more leisure time. The people who seek these benefits are employed, and they have no concern for their fellow Australians who are unemployed. 
Let us look at the matter in a sensible way. Let us suppose for the sake of argument that one million people who are employed at the moment make demands for increased wages and salaries which amount to $30 a week per person. If those demands were granted the increased wages bill would amount to $30m. How many of their unemployed counterparts could be employed for the expenditure of that $30m, if they were not greedy and grabbing? I am looking at the matter in a sensible, down to earth way. I have lived long enough to realise what is happening. We are getting to be a greedy, lazy nation of people. We are not concerned about our fellow man. We are concerned about grabbing for ourselves. I think that we should get people back to being prepared to do a day's work for a day's pay. That is a philosophy in which I believe. When I was working as a labourer I was prepared to do a day's work for a day's pay. If I can do that and if every man and woman in this country who is employed would get back to doing a day's work for a day's pay and producing properly, we could get all the other people back to work. It is a plain, simple matter of getting people back to being prepared to work. 
No one wants to work any more. People want to go to work, they want to be paid, and they want holidays; but they do not want to work when they are at the job. I say this as a working man who has worked all his life. I have worked on jobs where I have seen blokes lean on a shovel from the time the whistle went to start work in the morning until the time the whistle blew at 5 o'clock in the afternoon to knock off work. Most of those blokes have got themselves good cushy jobs in the trade union movement now. Let us have no nonsense about the attitudes of some of those in the extreme left wing in the trade unions today. These people are creating unemployment. They are creating chaos in the community. They talk about the freedom and rights of people when they can hold up the whole nation and the people to ransom. Let us get back to the stage where we are prepared to work- to go out and do a day's work for a day's pay. That is the kind of philosophy in which I believe. That is the kind of thing I believe the genuine Australian wants to do. The genuine Australian wants to work. No genuine Australian wants to go on strike for political reasons or for reasons of that nature. 
The unions have done a good job over the years, particularly in the early stages. I remember the days when I was cutting sugar cane. We worked six days a week and from daylight to dark. We went back to sleep in a toolshed. The union came in and made the cane farmer build barracks. Things changed and we got better conditions to work under. That is the kind of action I support unions taking. But when unions get to the stage of holding the whole nation and the people to ransom without regard for the suffering of women and children, it is time we took a second look at ourselves as Australians and asked: 'What are we doing? Are we concerned with the progress and welfare of this country? Are we concerned about our own greed and our own ideas of what we want for ourselves, rather than what we want for the nation?' I will pose this question, framed in the words used by a wise man a long time ago: 'Are we asking what the country can do for us or are we asking what we can do for the country as a whole?' We should answer that question honestly and sincerely. What I ask is 'What can I do for my country and what can I do for my people?' not What can they do for me?' That is a philosophy in which I believe. 
I have covered a number of matters. All I say in conclusion is that I support the Budget. I am proud to be sitting on this side of the chamber when the Treasurer can bring down the kind of Budget he has brought down. It is a Budget that will get Australia back on the rails. It will get Australians back to work. It will create a climate in which Australians can live and prosper by the sweat of their brow, not by taking someone else down or living off someone else when they are not prepared to do a day's work themselves. I have great pleasure in supporting the Budget. I reject completely and totally the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt). 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that there is a need for the appointment of another judge to the Family Court in the State of Queensland? If the answer is yes, can the Minister tell the Senate what steps he is taking to appoint another judge in Queensland? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of media reports that a group of Aborigines will build 50 humpies on tribal land at Llandilo, north of Penrith, to house the Aborigines of the western suburbs of Sydney? Is the Minister also aware of a statement by an Aboriginal spokesman,  Mr Don  Williams, that the humpies were being built in absolute desperation and his claim that the Federal Government was asked, in vain, for sums of $170,000 and of $50,000 to build motel-type accommodation for Aborigines? Has the Minister investigated these claims? If so, what does the Minister intend to do to alleviate this most desperate problem? 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate how much money the Federal Government has contributed to the building of houses on Mornington Island after the recent devastating cyclone? How many, if any, houses have been built? Who is occupying those houses? Is there any hold up in the building of houses on Mornington Island? If so, who or what is responsible for the hold up? 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate what progress has been made in the recruitment and training of Aboriginal teachers and teaching aides? 
I shall take up some of the time of the Senate to bring to the attention of honourable senators an article which appeared in the  Age  of today's date. It is headed: 
Aboriginals encouraged to enrol for election: BjelkePetersen. 
That headline is followed by large black headlines which state: 
Trachoma scheme blocked 
Professor 'stunned ' by decision 
I shall take up the time of the Senate by reading practically all the article into  Hansard,  as well as a statement put out by the Minister for Health, the Honourable Ralph Hunt. The article states: 
Canberra- The Queensland Premier  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has successfully blocked the Federal Government's trachoma program to eliminate blindness amongst Aborigines. 
Those words, for a start, give me as a senator representing Queensland a great deal of grave concern because the matter affects many of my constituents. It also gives me a great deal of grave concern because, as a member of the Aboriginal race, the article is referring to members of my race. Therefore I wish to say something about the matter. The article goes on: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the Health Minister,  Mr Hunt,  agreed to the Premier's request to stop the program in Queensland. It will be stopped at least until after the Federal election and possibly indefinitely. 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen complained that two Aboriginal liaison officers with the team,  Mr Mick  Miller and  Mr Clarry  Grogan, had a background of political activism. The Premier said they had encouraged Aborigines to enrol for the State election. 
In the opinion of the Premier of Queensland that makes those men political activists. They are asking Aborigines to enrol on State rolls for the State election. In that case I suppose I would be the greatest political activist in the whole country. Long before I came to the Parliament I advocated that Aborigines should enrol on both State and Federal rolls. Also, I encouraged them wherever I possibly could to involve themselves in all tiers of government and in all areas where I believed Aborigines could make a contribution. I return to the article which continues: 
The program, sponsored by the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists, has uncovered the world's highest blindness rate among outback Aborigines. 
That is worth repeating. It states:  has uncovered the world's highest blindness rate among outback Aborigines. 
The report continues: 
It is listed in a Liberal Party election pamphlet as one of the Fraser Government's major achievements - 
That is referring to the trachoma scheme- 
  Mr Hunt  said the college had accepted the Government's advice to close down the program from tomorrow. Staff would be given one week's pay in lieu of notice. The assistant director of the program,  Mr Gordon  Briscoe - 
An Aborigine- said last night the decision was a scandal. 'Less than a quarter of Queensland's Aborigines have so far been screened by the team ', he said. ' Hundreds have already been listed for medical treatment and they will now be left in the lurch.' 
If the program is abandoned most of this fantastic effort will have been in vain and a final report on the eye health of Aborigines will be impossible. ' 
Too stunned- 
The leader of the Trachoma team, Professor Fred Hollows, was told of the Government's decision in Brisbane yesterday. Speaking by telephone Professor Hollows said last night he was still too stunned to make any statement. They have accused two of our team of political activism but they are the two best field workers we have ever had,' he said. 'The eye health problems of Aborigines here are so horrific that these men have been too busy working their - backsides- off to help save sight to have time to get into polities', he said. 
-Yes, there is a different word used. The article continues: 
Last week the  president  of the college, Professor James Rogers, flew to Thursday Island to discuss the Queensland complaints with Professor Hollows. Professor Hollows said the team could not function efficiently without the two men. In June this year the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  gave an assurance to the National Press Club that the Trachoma program would not be wound down until it had completed its task. 

 Mr Fraser said he agreed too little had been done too late for Aboriginal health. The Aboriginal Affairs Minister,  Mr Viner,  said last night it was a health matter and reporters should seek comment from  Mr Hunt. 
I do not vouch for the accuracy of the article because it was written by a journalist. I believe it was written  Mr David  Broadbent. I cannot vouch for its authenticity or its accuracy. I am not the journalist. If that article does not give thinking concerned Australians something to think about and if they do not want to do something about the matter, I have certainly misjudged the Australian people. In the first instance I believe that this Government or any Federal government has a grave responsibility in relation to the indigenous people of this country. That responsibility was given to the Parliament by the people of Australia in an overwhelming vote at the 1967 referendum when this Parliament was given the power to make special laws for the Aboriginal people of this country. I have a copy of a Press release which was given by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It states: 
The Minister for Health,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, has advised the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists that some employees of the field teams of the National Trachoma and Eye Health Program (at present working in Queensland) are unacceptable to Queensland authorities. 
Perhaps I could take that paragraph first and then refer to the newspaper article. It would appear from all accounts that the unacceptability of these people has been based on the grounds that they are political activists. It has not anything to do with their work. It has nothing to do with how hard they work or how much they have done to assist people working in the trachoma scheme to achieve successful results in order to alleviate this dreadful problem that is facing Aboriginal people not only in parts of Queensland but also in many other States. 
The only objection that the authorities in Queensland- and I take that to be the Queensland Government, the Queensland Premier, the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement and such like- have to these two men is that they are political activists. According to the Press article the claim that they are political activists stems from the fact that they have encouraged Aborigines to have their names placed on the electoral roll. I do not believe that is reason enough in the first place to cause the withdrawal of people from a scheme such as this. Most of all I do not think it is sufficient ground on which to defer a program that can mean so much to children who would otherwise be blind early in their lives as a result of this terrible disease. 
The Press statement of the Minister for Health in part, states: 
So far, there have been excellent results from the Program and the Government is most grateful to the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists for their efforts and for the very good work done by Professor Hollows. 
The Government is conscious of the work that is being done by Professor Hollows and his team which includes the two Aborigines. The Federal Government is happy with what they have been doing but it will not be guided by what Professor Hollows, the leader of the team, says. The Press article, stated: 
The leader of the Trachoma team, Professor Fred Hollows, was told of the Government's decision in Brisbane yesterday. 
Speaking by telephone Professor Hollows said last night he was still too stunned to make any statement. 
They have accused two of our team of political activism but they are the best two field workers we have ever had ' he said. 
The two persons concerned are Mick Miller and Clarry Grogan. I have known Mick Miller for years. I have known him since he was a tiny tot. He grew up with my children on Palm Island. I know his family. I know the whole background. If one wants to call someone who supports a political party and who is not afraid to go out and sell that party, in the same manner as I have not been ashamed or backward in selling the party to which I belong, a political activist, it is true that Mick Miller is a political activist and in that case so am I. If the Premier of Queensland says that Bonner is a political activist because he tells people to enrol and speaks on street corners during an election campaign asking the people to vote for the Liberal Party, is the Premier going to ask the Federal Government to withdraw me from the Senate because I am a political activist? According to this line of reasoning, this would be the sort to action the Premier would take. 
I suppose that one can smile at some of these comments. However, I believe frivolity in this instance is out of order because we are talking about people. I was motivated to come to this place through my desire to do what I could for people. In this case, I happen to be concerned about the attitude that the Premier of Queensland has to some of my constituents who are people from the race to which I belong. 
Having brought this matter to the attention of the Senate I hope that the Government in its wisdom will not bow to the pressure of the Premier of Queensland and stop the good work that has been carried out by this scheme which has been in operation for some considerable time. I hope that the Government, instead of bowing to the wishes of the Premier of Queensland, will go the opposite way and give every support it possibly can to the scheme so that sufferers from trachoma will get the relief to which they as human beings are entitled. I hope that the Government will not stop the scheme from proceeding. I believe that possibly there are times when the Premier of Queensland can be given credit for his Canberra bashing but in this case I believe he is completely wrong and is showing a streak of inhumanity. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: In view of the fact that the Federal Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  cannot, according to Press reports this morning, find anything to substantiate the claims of the Premier of Queensland  Mr J.  Bjelke-Petersen, that  Mr Miller  and  Mr Grogan  were using their positions as members of the trachoma team for political purposes and in view of the fact that just about every newspaper in Australia this morning has supported the importance of the project, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Federal Government will ensure that the program will continue and that the two people involved will not be suspended? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It is in four parts. Firstly, is the Minister aware of a series of films produced by Film Australia entitled  Growing Upl  Secondly, are those films available for showing in schools? Thirdly, has there been any criticism by parents or others of the content of those films? Fourthly, are the films a part of the material produced by the Department of Education? 
I rise to support the Address-in-Reply motion which was so ably moved by my colleague  Senator Walters  and which has been supported by a number of my colleagues from this side of the chamber. In doing so I take this opportunity to say that it has given me an added sense of honour to know that the Speech by the Governor-General was an address by a person who came to that office from my own State of Queensland. I had the opportunity of meeting  Sir Zelman  Cowen, the Governor-General of Australia, while he was Vice-Chancellor of the University of Queensland. I recall meeting with him and talking to him on many occasions about many issues pertaining to the State of Queensland and Australia as a whole. I believe that he has made a very worthwhile contribution to the State of Queensland, as I know he will do to Australia in his office as Governor-General of Australia. I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government for their wisdom in appointing such an honourable gentleman to such a high office in this nation. 
I want to make some comments on the Speech of the Governor-General. I also want to refer to a speech that was made in this chamber last evening by  Senator James  McClelland. I can only describe that speech as the most vindictive, bitter tirade that I have ever heard directed against an honourable gentleman who contributed much to Australia prior to becoming the GovernorGeneral of Australia and while he held that office. I might add that this honourable gentleman was appointed by the Whitlam Government and was alleged to be a very close and personal friend of the man who delivered that bitter and vindictive tirade against him last night when he was not able to respond. I think it was an attack that did no credit either to  Senator James  McClelland or the party that he represents. I believe, without going into the pros and cons of what happened in 1975, that the GovernorGeneral of the day acted within the law and the Constitution of this country, despite the fact that there are some learned people in this country who say differently. In my humble opinion he took the only course open to him as the Queen's representative. I believe that he did what he should have done. 
As I have said, I wish to refer to certain aspects of the Governor-General's Speech. Some of them already have been covered. One of them in particular was covered yesterday by my colleague  Senator Collard.  I refer to the situation of the man on the land- the cattle man, the sheep man, the grain grower and the dairy farmer- and the problems that he is experiencing at this time. I believe that  Senator Collard  covered this matter very adequately when he pointed out to this chamber the problems these people are facing at this time. The lack of understanding of lots of people, particularly some people in this chamber, of the problems being experienced by the man on the land never ceases to amaze me. One sometimes hears snide remarks being made about the man on the land, such as: 'How much longer are we going to prop up the rural industries? How much longer are we going to give subsidies to them and do things like that?' I can only say that this is because of a lack of understanding of the problems faced by the man on the land. He lives out in the back blocks, works for 14 to 16 hours a day for 7 days a week and receives a pittance for his work. He is not supported by unions. He does not have a superannuation scheme to fall back on. Rarely do such men ever have the opportunity of even falling back on a pension. I have worked on cattle and sheep stations and on grain and dairy farms and I know the struggle that those who work there have. They have to put up with droughts, locusts, fires and floods. 
Even rats. I am afraid that there are some rats that are allegedly supporting them but in actual fact are not. But they are a different kind of rat indeed. The man on the land has to put up with all those sorts of things. The womenfolk and children of these men also suffer hardship. They are victimised in so many different ways. They do not have an opportunity to enjoy the kinds of things that we enjoy in the cities. Some areas do not even have television. Sometimes the man on the land has to pay onethird as much more for his petrol and fuel as those of us who live on the eastern seaboard and in the cities elsewhere. Whenever someone says that we must help the man on the land and the people in the back blocks by having an equalisation scheme for petrol one gets some people saying: 'Why should you be doing that for the people on the big cattle stations?' I say that we should be doing it. 
How much petrol does a person who lives in a city use? He would probably fill his tank once a week. In some of the outback areas a journey of 100 or 150 miles could be involved in going to the nearest town to buy a loaf of bread. I ask honourable senators to work out how much petrol is required to do that. That is sometimes the case in areas where people have to pay one-third more than the people in the city areas have to pay to fill their petrol tanks once a week. I believe that the Government must give serious thought to this matter. Something must be done to assist the man on the land much more than he has been assisted in the past. I make a plea to the Government to press ahead with the petrol equalisation scheme. That would enable the people in country areas to gain at least some small benefit from what they are contributing. Let us not forget that when times were good they contributed much more in taxes and everything else than many of us who live on the eastern seaboard and in the cities elsewhere. I say that the Government must press on with doing more for the man on the land than it has done up until this time. 
I felt a great sense of disappointment when listening to a speech in the adjournment debate last evening by  Senator Primmer  on a subject on which he and I have spoken on a number of occasions not only in this chamber but also outside it. It is an issue about which we have been very concerned and for which we have great sympathy, that is, the plight of the people of East Timor now and prior to their takeover by the Indonesian people. What disappointed me last night was that for the first time in any of the debates concerning East Timor the bipartisan attitude that previously had been adopted by members from both sides of this House was broken. Because it was broken last night, I believe that I should set the record straight. Unfortunately  Senator Primmer  saw fit in his speech last night to lay all the blame for Australia's attitude at the feet of the present Government and the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I say that it is absolutely incorrect to do so. I have said previously in this chamber, and I say again, that it is not correct to do so. The previous Government and the present Government, the previous Prime Minister and the present Prime Minister, the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs and the present Minister for Foreign Affairs, must share the blame equally for the tragedy of Australia not doing what it should have done for the people of East Timor. 
Let me recount in my own way my experience in relation to East Timor. The Senate will recall that I had the opportunity to visit East Timor in the company of  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt and  Mr Ken  Fry from the other place. I was so upset at what I saw, so concerned for the people and their plight and for many of the things that they said to me and asked me to do. that immediately I arrived in Darwin on my return to Australia I went to the nearest telephone and rang my secretary. I asked her whether she would contact the Prime Minister, then  Mr Whitlam,  to seek an appointment for me to speak with him and bring to his attention the things that I had learned and some of the requests that had been made to me by the people of East Timor. While I was en route from Darwin to Brisbane my secretary carried out my instructions. On my arrival at the airport in Brisbane there was a message for me to contact my secretary, which I did. She informed me that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  had said that he was not prepared to speak to me, that he had no time to speak to me, regardless of the importance of the matter, but that if I wished I could speak to one of his officers. He did not say that I could speak to his private secretary or to someone from the Department of Foreign Affairs, of which he was more or less in charge, but that I could speak to one of his men. 
That was the treatment I got: I believe that it was a complete brush-off. I felt insulted not only for myself but for the people on whose behalf I was making representations to my country. Members of the media contacted me and asked me about my trip. I told them exactly what had happened when I tried to contact the Prime Minister. The present leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Bill  Hayden, lives in the same city as I do- in a sense I am one of his constitutents and in another sense perhaps he is one of my constituents. Lo and behold, the day after I made that statement my local newspaper, the  Queensland Times,  contained an article in which  Mr Hayden  slated me and said that I had no right to want to speak to the Prime Minister, that I was naive and knew nothing about foreign affairs, and that I should come and talk to him. He had no concern for the people of East Timor. Where then does the blame lie? Does it lie only with the inactivity of the present Government or does it lie with both governments? 
-As I said, up until last night we had adopted a bipartisan line. If  Senator Mcintosh  wishes to speak when I am finished he is welcome to do so. Perhaps  Mr Hayden  was right when he said that I was naive and knew nothing about foreign affairs. But one thing in which I do have expertise and on which I am not naive is the matter of human relations, human understanding, compassion for those less fortunate than myself. I believe that I have that expertise. Who would know better than I what it is like to live in a country where one's people have been oppressed and denigrated? I know what it is like and I know how the East Timorese people are feeling at the moment. Do not tell me that my people were not shot, poisoned and hanged because they were, although perhaps not to the same extent as is happening in East Timor at the moment. Perhaps it did not happen to my people on the same scale because more people are involved in East Timor. There were only 300,000 Aborigines, and there are 750,000 East Timorese people. As I understand the position, 50,000 East Timorese were slaughtered by Indonesian troops when they arrived in East Timor. Fortunately or unfortunately, the Aboriginal people were only half wiped out. At the turn of the century there were 300,000 Aborigines, and we are now down to fewer than 70,000. 1 may not know about international diplomacy, but I certainly do know what it is to be a member of a deprived race of people and to be walked over by someone else. 
Perhaps somebody is saying: 'Finally he is getting around to it'. Yes, finally I am getting around to it. I intend to refer to some statements that have been made concerning members of my race and the land rights Act introduced by the Government to give the tribal lands back to many of my people in the Northern Territory. It is perhaps appropriate that I should bring up this matter today. At 4 o'clock this afternoon at Mount Isa in Queensland the last full-blood member of the Kalkadoon tribe will be put to rest. The Kalkadoon tribe owned the land in and around Mount Isa prior to the landing of the First Fleet in 1 788 and for quite sometime after. I think it is appropriate that I should bring up the matter of land rights and some of the statements concerning it at a time when the last member of the Kalkadoon tribe is being laid to rest at Mount Isa in Queensland. Mount Isa has one of the biggest and richest silver, lead and zinc mines in the southern hemisphere. The mine is on tribal Aboriginal land but the Aboriginal people of Queensland and the Kalkadoons in particular receive not one single solitary cent, not one little bit of compensation from it. The remnants of that tribe are still living in gunyahs on the banks of the river, in conditions of the greatest degradation that could be witnessed anywhere. 
I turn to some of the statements that have been made recently. One which would certainly stand out is the headline which appeared in the  Australian  on 17 February 1978 in large black type stating: 
Black council's demands 'will ruin N.T. mining' 
Racial confrontation, industrial chaos and possible financial ruin were predicted yesterday for the emerging State in the Northern Territory if the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1 977 is not amended. 
That statement was made by the Australian Mining Industry Council, one of the most influential groupings of mining companies in Australia, in a 1 5 -page submission to the Federal Government. I hope that members of this chamber will have an opportunity to read that submission. Certainly I would welcome the opportunity to debate it, either here or with the mining companies- wherever they choose. If that kind of statement is not going to cause problems in itself when Aborigines are being given their rights by a Federal government for the first time in the history of this country, I do not know what will. That article appeared in the  Australian  on 17 February 1978. It seems rather strange that it was followed on Monday, 20 February 1978- only three days later- by an article on the third page of the Brisbane  Courier Mail  headed in very big, black type: 'Premier slates mineral rights law for blacks. Could lead to black State'. The article stated: 
White Australians would be converted to second class citizens unless "mineral rights provisions were removed from aboriginal land legislation, the Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  said last night. 
Patience, my dear, patience! The article continued: 
He said legislation which gave mineral and land rights was pure Alice in Wonderland' and had been drawn up on a misunderstanding. Aboriginal control of a vital resource such as uranium could lead eventually to an independent black State in the Northern Territory. 
I will not read all of the article. I will read the parts on which I want to comment: 
In Australia, minerals belonged to the Crown so that the benefits would be shared by all Australians. 
Oh, what a fantasy to believe that the minerals will be shared by all Australians. That is not my understanding of the facts. When one realises that one of the largest mining companies in Queensland has just taken out of Australia an amount of $150m, one wonders how much of that honourable senators here are receiving as their share. How much are the unemployed in Australia getting of that amount? 'Shared by all Australians!' It is fantasy on the part of the Premier of Queensland to make that kind of statement. They would no more get a share of the benefits than if the minerals in Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory are mined and some work is created for Aborigines and nonAborigines. But who is going to get the profits? Are all Australians to get the profits? Phooey! 

 Mr Bjelke-Petersen also said: 
A small group, prey to militant and do-good advisers, could hold mining companies and the entire nation to ransom on a vital resource. 
If that is the case every member of this chamber would fall into that category. We passed the land rights legislation here in this chamber. It was presented by the Federal Government in the other place, it was brought up here, it was passed in this chamber and it was supported by Bishop Rush of the Catholic Church in Queensland, Bishop Arnott of the Anglican Church in Queensland and the Moderator-General of the Continuing Church in Queensland. Are they all radicals, do-gooders and activists because they support Aboriginal land rights in the way they were identified in the Aboriginal land rights legislation introduced into this Parliament and passed by this Senate? If the land rights legislation is unaltered, Aboriginal people will have the right of veto over mining on their land, except when the minerals are being mined in the national interest. When dealing with Aborigines the white man always comes out on top. You cannot have a mob of blackfellows sitting on all this uranium, silver, lead and bauxite. In the national interest the white man must come out on top and the black man then has to go by the board. 
The Premier went on to say: 
They could use uranium and land control to demand an independent State . . . 
. and 
I take issue with that statement in itself- 
China or Russia would be eager to step in to help. 
My God! It brings me back to the debate on East Timor when so much was said about the Fretilin movement, that it was a bunch of Corns and that the Communists were helping it. When I spoke of this to the leaders of the Fretilin movement the answer I received from them was:  'Senator, if  you are drowning in a river or a pool of water and a hand reaches out to help you, do you question whose or what hand it is? You grab it and save your life'. If that is the case, perhaps the Fretilin movement has reached out to grasp the hand that has been offered to it by way of help because Australia had failed it dismally. That is the only way that Aborigines may sometime, somewhere find it necessary to accept help from people other than those who have the opportunity at the moment. That is not a threat on my part; that is a simple matter of what could happen as it has happened in other countries. 
The article continued: 
The Premier said it was a denial of basic democratic rights that any group could exclude other people from going anywhere in Australia. 
How ludicrous! Try going through the properties of station owners, graziers and grain growers and see what will happen to you. You will be told to get off very smartly. All that the Aboriginal people are seeking in their land rights claim is the right to determine who shall come on to their lands and into their communities and for what purpose. I do not think that is wrong. I think it is a fundamental right that they should have. This would not relate to whites only. As the elders of the tribes said when I was Chairman of the Select Committee inquiring into Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory, they want the right to say who- whether black, white or brindle with green stripes- should come on to their property and who should not. They are not concerned as to colour or nationality. 
Madam  Deputy President,  1 think it is appropriate that the Northern Lands Council should be under the chairmanship of a tribal Aborigine- not some Sydney radical or some Melbourne radical but a tribal Aborigine- and made up of tribal men controlling the land rights in the Northern Territory. I shall quote from an article which appeared in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  Referring to the mining companies which are kicking up such a row about Aborigines having the right to determine whether uranium or other minerals should be mined on their properties, it states: 
So they are trying to discredit the whole Lands Rights Act, which was passed in December, 1976, after two years of debate in Parliament and in the country under both Labor and Liberal/Country Party Governments. It was a debate in which the miners' views were highly influential. 
No one can deny that the mining interests had the opportunity to look at that legislation and to put forward their points of view. Now that the provisions of that legislation are a fact of life the mining companies see fit to denigrate the Aboriginal people and the Northern Lands Council and to make further demands so that Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory will lose what little they now have. 
It is now the law of the land. It was passed by both Houses of Parliament. The Aboriginal people have so little and it took so long to get so little, yet we have mining companies and a Premier of" a State not in any way recognising land rights for Aboriginal people. This Premier will not recognise those rights in any shape or form; even to the extent that when a group of Aboriginal people were endeavouring to buy some crown lease land he stopped that from happening. A group of Aboriginal people in the Murray Upper, outside Cardwell, were trying to purchase some land to develop and to assist and help themselves. That was frustrated and was stopped by the Premier of Queensland. He now has the audacity to say that the Aboriginal people are endeavouring to set up a black State in the Northern Territory. I wonder whether one could use a quotation in reverse and state that what the Premier is actually doing is not drawing a red herring across the scene but drawing a black herring across the scene in order to take the powerhouse debate off the front pages of the Queensland newspapers. With those remarks, I again say how proud I am to have had the opportunity to speak in the Address-in-Reply debate and to support the motion. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate whether the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has introduced complementary legislation to the Federal Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill? If not, when is it expected to be tabled, and when it is tabled will members of the Senate be given copies of it for study and determination? 
I preface my question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by referring to an article on page 2 of today's  Courier Mail  in which the Premier of Queensland is alleged to have claimed that he has documents which he believes will verify the medical credentials of cancer therapist Milan Brych. The Premier is reported to have said: 
I think that those highly critical of this man will get a little surprise. 
Is the Minister aware of the contents of these purported documents and does she agree that if such documents exist they should be published immediately so as to resolve this controversial issue once and for all and to alleviate the mental anguish of cancer sufferers in our country while they await confirmation of this man's medical credentials and alleged cure of cancer? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the waiting period imposed by the Aboriginal Housing Loans Commission has been extended from three years to five years? Can the Minister inform the Senate why the waiting period has been extended, considering that adequate housing in the Aboriginal community is of such great importance to the Aboriginal people? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Government is about to take over administration of the Aboriginal communities at Mornington Island and Aurukun, without consultation with either the Uniting Church in Australia or the Aboriginal people concerned? Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps the Federal Government can take to prevent this from happening as it is in complete contravention of the Federal Government's policy of self-determination and self-management by Aboriginal people? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and follows the question asked by my colleague,  Senator Wood.  Is it not a fact that the education and health needs of the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island are responsibilities of the Queensland Minister for Health and his Department and the Queensland 
Minister for Education and his Department and not the responsibility of the Uniting Church in Australia and, if there is deterioration in both these areas, surely the responsibility lies with those two Ministers and not with the Church? 
I join in this debate on the matter of public importance raised by  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt because I have a great personal interest in what is happening. A smokescreen has been thrown across the scene by members of the State Parliament, the Minister for Health,  Dr Edwards,  the Minister for Education, and the Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Ron  Camm, and I will touch on what they have had to say later on in the debate. I maintain and I will continue to maintain that what is happening in Queensland at the moment in relation to the takeover of Aurukun and Mornington Island by the Queensland Government started as early as 1968. In 1968 the United States Tipperary Corporation took out a prospecting licence on Aurukun, and I believe that the problems facing the people of Aurukun at the moment started when that licence was taken out. 
A cartoon by McCrae appeared this morning in the  Courier-Mail  and it pretty well sums up what is happening at Aurukun. The cartoon depicts  Mr Charles  Porter, the Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland, a reverend gentleman, an Aboriginal gentleman and an Aboriginal lady. The caption underneath states: 
But Reverend, the meek SHALL inherit the earth- after we've extracted the bauxite. 
I believe that that sums up what is happening. Bauxite is at the heart of the events occurring in Queensland at the moment. The editorial in this morning's  Courier-Mail  partly sums up what I have been saying, and rather than go through the whole matter I will read sections of the editorial. In relation to the Queensland Government it states: 
Indeed, it has contested all along the right of the community to make an agreement with a mining company. 
To an extent, this might have been reasonable, even if immediately unpopular. How does one define and identify the 'Aurukun community ' in an enduring sense? 
The State Government stoutly maintains the takeover has nothing whatever to do with bauxite mining. Possibly it is true, but the Government will find many people hard to convince. 
I can assure you,  Mr President,  that I am one person who will be very hard to convince. As a matter of fact, I do not care what the Queensland Government or the Premier of Queensland or  Mr Charles  Porter say; they will never convince me that the bauxite and the greed of the white man to get out that bauxite are not at the bottom of the problem facing the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Admittedly, there is no bauxite on Mornington Island, but again a smokescreen has been raised. The Queensland Government is taking over from the church two communities that the church has been administering for a number of years. It has been administering these communities for nigh on 70 years. It was only in 1954 that the Queensland Government came into the picture to help, financially or otherwise, the church that had been administering and trying to assist those of my people who live in these two communities. In 1 954 the State Government started to channel some funds into the communities. 
I have some reports of interviews that have taken place in the last couple of days.  Mr Frank  Purcell, one of the people interviewed, has been involved with the Aurukun people since the bauxite business came to light. He has been giving legal advice to the Aboriginal community and the Aboriginal councillors, and in an interview he had this to say in answer to a question put to him by Helene Chung: 
This is even more atrocious. It is absolutely shocking. The Queensland Government is determined to keep going on a policy of oppression and to prevent the self-determination of Aboriginal people. They are going right against the whole stream of thought throughout Australia.  1 believe that the 1967 referendum was an indication from the people of Australia that the Aboriginal people should have the right of selfdetermination. The referendum gave power to the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Parliament to make special laws pertaining to Aboriginal people. 
I return again to the question of the bauxite. I personally became involved in it when the Queensland Government rushed legislation through the Parliament in less than 50 hours. For the Queensland Parliament that was a lot of sitting hours, in view of the fact that it sits for only 30 days a year. The 50 hours must have been quite a strain on members because the Government wanted to get out the bauxite it was prepared to sit for that length of time. It rushed through a piece of legislation giving the mining company the right to go ahead with its mining operations without proper consultation with the Aboriginal people or the Presbyterian Church, which at that time was responsible for the administration of Aurukun. I had the opportunity to accompany the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to Aurukun to talk with the Aboriginal people. We arrived there at about 1 p.m. on 21 January 1976. That afternoon we sat on the ground under the mango trees, surrounded by 200 people of the Aboriginal community together with their councillors, for six hours while the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs consulted with the Aboriginal people. I would say without a doubt that the reception given to the Minister by the Aboriginal people there at the time, the way in which they confided in him and the things they told him, surprised even me. I have never seen a non-Aboriginal person, in such a short time, be able to communicate with and gain the confidence of a group of Aboriginal people. I do not believe it probable that I will ever see it happen again. 
The Minister and I, on our return to Canberra, consulted with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We sat with him over lunch in the parliamentary dining room for an hour. We were able to convince him that proper, adequate and meaningful consultations had not taken place between the church, the Aboriginal council and the Aboriginal community at Aurukun. But the Queensland Government was determined to go ahead and force its will on the people by allowing the mining company to extract the bauxite. The Prime Minister listened to us very carefully. He noted everything we said. Just before our meeting concluded, I was feeling pretty low. I thought that we had tried but did not seem to have reached a satisfactory conclusion. The Prime Minister, with a broad grin on his face, said: 'Neville, I do not know what you are worrying about. There is a simple answer to the problem. I will report to Cabinet that the Queensland Government and the mining company will not be granted an export licence until certain things happen'. There and then he laid out in front of me what he required to happen. He said that there should be full and meaningful consultation between the State Government, the mining company, the Presbyterian Church and the Aboriginal community and that the negotiations should include the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and myself. 
That happened some two years ago. The Queensland Government and the mining company have made no moves whatsoever to bring about that meaningful consultation with the parties named by the Prime Minister. Suddenly, Charles Porter, the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, made certain statements in an interview for the  AM  radio program. He said: 
We have unhappily had a long history in these two communities of problems involving education, school numbers have fallen drastically, the health reports from our own Health Department teams and the Royal Flying Doctor sources are bad. 
If that is the case, the Church is not at fault, nor are the Aboriginal people. It is the two Ministers concerned for those areas of responsibility- the Minister for Education and his Department and the Minister for Health and his Department. 
 In the State of Queensland. The Federal Government has lived  up to its responsibilities. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said, the Federal Government has channelled funds into the State for expenditure in those two areas. If the health of the Aboriginal people in those communities has deteriorated it is the fault of the Queensland Government and the two State Ministers and their departments for their neglect, to use the very words of the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Mr Charles  Porter, who must also share some responsibility for this neglect. 
The Uniting Church in Australia- and the Presbyterian Church prior to the existence of the Uniting Church- has been administering these communities for some 70 years. All people who know anything about these two communities say that the Church has done a magnificent job all the way down the line. I say here and now that when one of my colleagues on this side of the Senate refers to the Uniting Church as a socialist body my stomach turns. These people are Christian people, God-fearing people, who are doing their best not only for Aboriginal people but also for the spiritual well-being of all Queenslanders. The Moderator of the Uniting Church in Queensland was shocked to receive a letter from the Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland on this matter. There was no consultation between the Moderator and the Minister and the Director of the Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement Department. He was called into an office and handed a letter dated 10 March 1978. In view of the limited time available to me I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

MINISTER FOR ABORIGINAL AND ISLAND AFFAIRS 
10th March 1978. 
The Reverend Professor R. A. Busch, Moderator, The Uniting Church in Australia, Queensland Synod, Brisbane 4000. 
Dear Reverend  Sir, 
I have to advise that Cabinet has considered the overall position relative to Mornington Island and Aurukun Aboriginal Communities and to inform you of the following decisions by Cabinet: 
The Uniting Church be informed that at the expiry of the current advance payment period, viz 31st March 1978, the Government will no longer continue to provide subsidy support to the Church for management of Aurukun; and Mornington Island and the Aboriginal Councils be similarly advised. 
The Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement takes steps forthwith to provide an effective management service at each of the Communities and assumes total responsibility for the material well being of the people from that date on a similar basis to other Aboriginal communities in the State. 
The Uniting Church be informed that the transfer of Management authority will be on the basis of 'walk in, walk out' without capital compensation by the State and without cash exchange either way, except for suitable retail stock in trade which, if required, will be purchased by the Department at actual landed costs at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
Members of the Church staff serving at each centre be offered positions within the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement provided they are considered suitable and acceptable to the Director, but that such positions be not necessarily at Mornington Island or Aurukun nor with Public Service rank equivalent to their status within the Church staff structure. 
Sole responsibility devolves on the Church to administer spiritual needs of residents; and land considered suitable by the Director be set aside on the Reserve for permanent use of the Church as a place of worship and a residence for the clergy, noting that an existing place of worship and a place of residence may be made available to the Church free of charge. 
I would appreciate your co-operation and that of your Church organisation in effecting the change-over as soon as possible and in the best interests of the Aboriginal communities. 
Yours sincerely, CHARLES PORTER 
I thank the Senate. I have another short letter which I will read into the  Hansard  record. It provides an indication of the feelings of the people of Aurukun, who have not been consulted. The letter is addressed to  Mr J.  C. Hooper, Division of World Missions, Uniting Church in Australia. It states: 
Dear  Sir, 
We, the undersigned members of the Aurukun Community Council, have, after extensive talks with the members of the Community of Aurukun, found that it is the people's wish to remain under the Administration of the Uniting Church of Australia. 
We would therefore appreciate it if you would pass this to the Synod of North Queensland, along with our thanks for their support. We look forward to working together in the future. 
The letter is signed by five members of the Aboriginal Council at Aurukun. They are Donald Peinkinna, Barry Ngakyunkwokka, Eric Koooila, Roy Landis and Fred Kerindum. I have with me a large bundle of telegrams from organisations and people scattered not only throughout Queensland, but throughout Australia, expressing support for what I am doing. They urge that the Federal Government take steps to prevent the actions of the Queensland Government in whatever way it possibly can- be it legally or constitutionallybecause they believe that the Federal Government not only has those legal and constitutional rights but also has a moral responsibility to support the Aboriginal people. I have spoken to the Minister for Social Security about incorporating these telegrams in  Hansard  and I now seek leave to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The telegrams read as follows- 


 Senator Bonner 

Care Parliament House 
Canberra, ACT 
Congratulations on your stand on backing up Aurukun and Mornington Island people especially your statement that the Commonwealth Government should take over all Aboriginal and Islander affairs in Queensland. Truaid and the Northern Land Council would like to hold a major fund raising appeal for the Aurukun and Mornington Island people in their fight against Queensland Government's takeover as we regard this as a major disaster. Could you please ring me ASAP regarding this matter, 0795757 16. 
Yours faithfully SHORTY O'NEILL, Publicity Officer, Truaid 

 Senator Bonner Phone 726861 Canberra, ACT 
Council and community not consulted about government takeover. What is happening. Please help us. 
Larry Lanley, Prince Escort, Lawrence Dugong, Nelson Gavenor, Roger Kelly. 

 Senator Neville Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Legal service fully supports Aurukun and Mornington Island communities in resistance to state government takeover. Best wishes in your own endeavours on their behalf. 
ERIC KYLE, State President, , Atsils Cairns 

 Senator Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
The Queensland Governments proposed takeover of Aurukun and Mornington Islands missions is a test of the Federal Government's sincerity in Aboriginal Affairs. It is morally repugnant to allow these missions to be subject to the direct oppression of the Bjelke Peterson government. If Australia is to maintain any credibility on race issues internationally the Federal Government must intervene. 
MARCIA LANGTON, General Secretary, Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. 
Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
We of the Ngoonbi Housing Society Kuranda, disapprove of the Queensland Government taking over Aurukun. Can't you people see that Aurukun would end up as a second 
Weipa. That is what the Aurukun inhabitants do not want. The majority of Aboriginals today would support a Federal ruling. 
Ngoonbi Housing Society, Kuranda. 

 Senator Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Solidarity over current issue. Urge you influence your Ministers. Declare national emergency and Commonwealth administer our affairs in Queensland. 
Aboriginal and Islander Forum. 

 Senator Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Fully support your stand on current dispute Aboriginal reserves takeover. Suggest you concentrate influencing your Government Ministers declare national emergency and takeover Aboriginal reserves and affairs Queensland. 
FCAATSI President McGinness 

 Senator Neville Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
In solidarity over current issue. Urge you influence your Ministers declare national emergency and Commonwealth administrate our affairs. 
SHEPHERD, Secretary Camu 
The Honourable  Senator Neville  Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Noonuccle Nughie Cogaoperation Stradbroke Island urge all Federal parliamentarians to vote in favour of takeover or to resume responsibility for Aboriginal affairs Queensland to ensure Federal Government policy on self determination and management for Aboriginal people is honestly implemented. 
Kath Walker, President 

 Senator Neville Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Copy of telegram received. Shocked by high handed action of takeover of Aurukun Mission and Mornington Island by Queensland Government against expressed wishes of communities. Congratulations on your stand. 
McKenzie, Cameron, Gman, former missionaries, Aurukun. 

 Senator Neville Bonner Parliament House Canberra, ACT 
Urge Federal takeover of Aboriginal affairs necessary to assist in self determination by aborigines in Queensland. 
Bertossi, Secretary, Housing Society Vice President Land Council, Stradbroke Island. 
Finally, I urge the Federal Government- I would beg if necessary- to  exercise its constitutional right under the terms of the 1967 referendum. I ask that the Government do this not just in relation to these two communities but in relation to the whole of the Aboriginal movement in the State of Queensland. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources inform the Senate whether a large deposit of phosphate rock has been discovered west of Normanton in Queensland? If this is the case, is it intended that it shall be pipelined in a slurry form to Mornington Island for transhipping? 
I rise to support the Bill. However, I cannot support the amendment moved on behalf ofthe Opposition. It seems to me that members of the Opposition and people generally who live in cities on the eastern seaboard have no comprehension whatsoever of the problems faced by people in the remote areas of many of the States, and particularly in my State of Queensland which has vast areas of land and in which people who live in remote towns in many cases find themselves disadvantaged not only in respect of transport but also in respect of their farming activities which necessitate the use of tractors. These people are paying a great deal more for fuel than are people living on the eastern seaboard and in many of the cities of Australia. Therefore I cannot understand why we do not support this Bill and give it a very speedy passage through both Houses of Parliament. 
Many people who live in country areas have suffered because of the cost of fuel. I have worked on cattle and sheep stations and I know the problems faced by the people who live in remote areas. They have to put up with droughts, floods and all sorts of things. Surely it is high time- perhaps the time is long overdue- that a government saw fit to do something to assist people who live in these remote areas. It is not good enough just to say that we are helping the grazier, the man on the land. We are helping other people who live out in country areas. We are helping people who work on railways and people who work for local government authorities around various country towns. They are suffering under this inequitable situation that has existed for so long. 
I have said before in this chamber that if one lives in the city of Brisbane one can fill one's car with petrol on Monday morning, drive perhaps five or 10 miles a day to and from work and perhaps take a trip down to the Gold Coast at the weekend to have a nice time and still have enough petrol to last till the following Monday. But it is a different proposition altogether if one lives in places such as Quilpie, Cunnamulla, Charleville, Blackall, Tambo or Augathella. Living in those towns is bad enough, but if one lived on a sheep or cattle station in any of those areas one could be 70, 80 or 100 miles from a town. One may wish to take the children to town to see a movie because some of these areas do not have television but must make do with radio. One may wish to buy a few perishable groceries to take home. However, such a journey may involve travelling 100 miles into town and 100 miles out. In some cases people in these areas pay twice as much for petrol as people who live in Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns or Rockhampton may pay. I think this is grossly unfair. The Government is trying to do something to bring about a situation in which these people will pay much less than they are paying now. They will be paying something more equitable in terms of what their counterparts who live on the eastern seaboard pay for some commodity. I do not see anything wrong with that. I am at a loss to understand why the Opposition is trying to prevent this legislation from being passed speedily so that these matters can be rectified. 
I recall that only last year my wife and I travelled from Brisbane and passed through various towns. We travelled from Brisbane, through Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby, Chinchilla and Miles to Charleville, then through Tambo and Blackall to Mount Isa. We visited these towns and talked to the people. We came to a little place between Winton and Cloncurry called Kynuna and saw there the things that people have to put up with in these western towns. In this little town we called in at a small hotel called the Blue Heeler. It was a very nice little hotel. Across the road there was a small cafe and my wife, being a teetotaller, went across to have a cup of tea while I had a nice cold beer. We talked to the people. 
Yes, a Queensland blue heeler. Talking to the people there we heard of the things they had to put up with and of their problems, even with communication. 
My wife was talking to the ladies while I was talking to the gentlemen. We do the right thing; we get amongst the people. My wife meets the women folk in the town and I meet the men. We discuss their problems and try to help. The gentleman who owned a little shop in the town also had the responsibility for transporting goods from the other big towns into this little town. Sometimes on Fridays when loading his truck at the railhead at Julia Creek someone would ring from Kynuna because he had forgotten to put all the items he wanted on his order. He might have wanted a packet of Bex powders or a loaf of bread. However, to get it added to his order he would have to use the telephone and make a trunk call which would cost him more than the loaf of bread or the packet of Bex powders was worth. This is the kind of problem which these people in remote areas have to suffer. It would cost them 25c or 30c to ring up and catch the mailman while he was in Julia Creek to add to their order a packet of Bex powders or some aspirin. If they did not catch the mailman they would have to go 150 miles by car at the weekend to get the extra things they wanted. Honourable senators who drive motor cars will know that it takes a lot of petrol to drive 150 miles one way and 150 miles back and the people in these remote areas have to pay twice as much for their petrol as  Senator Georges  has to pay for his petrol in Brisbane. Something has to be done about that to help the people who live in remote areas.  Senator Georges  would know of these problems if he moved out into his electorate, the State of Queensland, and did not stay in Brisbane all the time.  Senator Martin  and I travel around the State. We know of these problems because we go out to these places, talk to the people and see what they have to put up with. 

 -Unfortunately Senator Georges does not take that attitude. 
Yes. Once I even drove to Mount Isa and when I got there I could not get a beer. This is what people have to put up with in the bush. All the Government is trying to do is equalise the situation for these people who have to live with these hardships. They are the salt of the earth; they are great people. If any of us drove through their station properties and did not pull up and have a cup of tea with them they would be very offended. A lot of honourable senators opposite and people who live in cities forget that this country was built on and has been successful only because of people in country areas, the people in rural industries. The export income of this country is still greatly dependent on rural industries. The income which we get for our wool, beef, wheat, milk and other products which we send overseas is earned by the people in the bush. 
-It does not come from some of the blokes I know who have a few hens in their backyards in South Australia. It comes from the real fair dinkum Aussie out in the bush who earns his living by working 16 to 18 hours a day, seven days a week. I have had to do hard work on cattle stations. Some honourable senators opposite should get out on the bullock muster and see how long they last working seven days a week, rain, hail or sunshine. By introducing this legislation we are saying to those people in remote areas that we are going to do something for them at long last by giving them a chance to use their vehicles without having to pay more for petrol than do their counterparts, such as  Senator Georges,  living in Brisbane.  Senator Georges  enjoys the luxuries of living in the city while these people are slaving to do the best they can to keep this country's rural industries going. We say that they are entitled to pay only a little more for their petrol than do the people on the eastern seaboard. I support the Bill and reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
-The Senate today is debating a Bill for an Act to empower Aboriginals- I would prefer to use the word 'Aborigines'- and Torres Strait Islanders who live on reserves in Queensland to manage and to control their own affairs. I should like in some way to bring back some sanity to this debate. Just what are we debating in this Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-management) Bill? What are we endeavouring to do in this chamber by supporting the Bill that was introduced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in the other place yesterday? We are not talking about States rights; we are not talking about the Commonwealth Government taking over the communities in Queensland. We are not talking about that at all. What we are talking about is human rights and human dignity. Because of the actions of the Queensland Government just recently the Federal Government, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have seen fit to do something that to my knowledge has never been tried before. One recalls that some two weeks ago the Opposition had what is termed a matter of public importance debated in this chamber andin the other place. That was concerned with the very thing that we are talking about in relation to this Bill- the arbitrary and dictatorial acts of the Government of Queensland in interfering in the running of Aurukun and Mornington Island, two Aboriginal communities in that State. I, as did a number of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, joined in that debate, which was a very good one, marked by impartiality and an absence of politicking. We were all concerned for the rights of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I hoped that the debate on this Bill, would be carried out along the same lines. What the Opposition was asking for at that time was immediate intervention by the Federal Government to prevent the Government of Queensland from taking over the administration of the communities concerned. 
I thank  Senator Georges  for giving me the exact date. He is merely supporting my statement that that debate did occur. I do not see how he could claim otherwise. What happened in Queensland was that the Government, through the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Charles Porter, delivered to the Moderator of the Queensland 
Uniting Church a certain document. Prior to the delivery of that document there was no consultation whatsoever between the State Government and either the Uniting Church or the Aboriginal people. Admittedly, there were rumours, which even reached Canberra- the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, was aware of them- that the State Government was about to take or contemplated taking these steps. That document was handed to the Moderator without any to do. He was just told: 'Here's something; read that.' I am not sure whether this document was read during the course of the previous debate on the matter of public importance, but perhaps I should do that now. The document read: 
I have to advise that Cabinet has considered the overall position relative to Mornington Island and Aurukun Aboriginal communities and to inform you of the following decisions by Cabinet. 
It was a Cabinet decision- an arbitrary decision by the Queensland Government. The document continues: 
. The United Church be informed that at the expiry of the current advance payment period, viz 31 March 1978, the Government will no longer continue to provide subsidy support to the Church for management of Aurukun; and Mornington Island and the Aboriginal Councils be similarly advised. 
The Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement takes steps forthwith to provide an effective management service at each of the Communities and assumes total responsibility for the material wellbeing of the people from that date on a similar basis to other Aboriginal communities in the State. 
The Uniting Church be informed that the transfer of management authority will be on the basis of 'walk in, walk out' without capital compensation by the State and without cash exchange either way, except for suitable retail stock in trade which, if required, will be purchased by the Department at actual landed costs at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
Members of the Church staff serving at each centre be offered positions with the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement provided they are considered suitable and acceptable to the Director, but that such positions be not necessarily at Mornington Island or Aurukun nor with Public Service rank equivalent to their status within the Church staff structure. 
Sole responsibility devolves on the Church to administer spiritual needs of residents; and land considered suitable by the Director be set aside on the Reserve for permanent use of the Church as a place of worship and a residence for the clergy, noting that an existing place of worship and a place of residence may be made available to the Church free of charge. 
That document was handed to the Moderator of the Uniting Church. No discussion was allowed, or anything else. It was just a matter of taking over. When that message got through, a number of people became very concerned. I thank Opposition supporters for their action on that date when they moved as a matter of public importance, it be considered both in the other place and here. I thank them for the content of the debate at that time because they, as I am today, were concerned for the people and the rights of the people. That is what all this is about at the present moment. We are talking about people; we are talking about people being able to have the right to determine their own future, to be able to manage their own affairs, to be able to say what they want to do, to aspire to whatever they want to aspire to, not to be controlled by anyone else. 
They have had a working relationship with the Presbyterian Church, prior to its becoming the Uniting Church, for some 74 years. They have worked together. They have lived together. They have played together and they have cried together. For all those years the Uniting Church has adopted a policy similar to that adopted by the Federal Government, a policy of selfmanagement and self-determination. In every way possible they have endeavoured to encourage those of my people living in those communities to accept responsibility, to be able to plan and manage their own affairs. But the State Government does not want that. It has ignored the facts. In this particular case, now that this Bill is before the Parliament, it has ignored the fact that the 1967 referendum empowered the Commonwealth under section 5 1 (xxvi) to legislate for Aborigines. Whilst the State retains its current power to legislate, any Commonwealth legislation must prevail. 
In my own State of Queensland there was an almost 90 per cent yes vote in the 1967 referendum. The lowest yes vote in any of the 18 Queensland electoral divisions was 84 per cent. What we are doing through this Bill is exactly what the people of Queensland said in 1967 should happen- that the Commonwealth should have the power to legislate, to take control and make laws for Aboriginal people throughout Australia. 

 -If Senator Wright is saying no, in that regard he must agree with the statement of the Premier of Queensland that Queensland is another country, that it is not part of Australia. Queensland is indeed a part of the Commonwealth of Australia. In 1967, I repeat, almost 90 per cent of the people of Queensland voted yes. The lowest yes vote in any of the 1 8 electoral divisions was 84 per cent. What the Federal Government is doing is carrying out its responsibilities. Thank God it has. It has taken almost 1 1 years for any Government really to put this into practice. 
I have received quite a few digs from various people about my stand on Queensland. There have been occasions when I have said that the Government of that State, in some regards, has done very well. The situation at the community of Cherbourg, which three of my Queensland colleagues visited the other day, is different from that at Mornington Island, Aurukun or some of the other church-run mission stations. A good job has been done at this mission. I suppose one of the reasons for this is that Cherbourg is less than 2 hours by road from Brisbane. It is a showplace at which anybody can look. However, despite the beautiful buildings, the amenities and the facilities, the Aboriginal people do not have the right of self-management or selfdetermination. That is exactly what we are giving them by this legislation. 
-Yes, it is very close. As a matter of fact the Premier has a branch of the National Party on Cherbourg. It is certainly within striking distance of Kingaroy. Admittedly that could make some difference. But be that as it may, my task today is not just to denigrate the Premier as a person; it is also to point out some of the things that are happening in my State of Queensland and to explain why it has been necessary for the Federal Government and for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to introduce this legislation. I think we need to listen to the voice of the Aboriginal people. The results of a survey carried out in Queensland only recently lend support to what this Government is doing. The results are contained in a document entitled Interim Report of Joint Research Project' and dated 31 March 1978. The survey was carried out by the Aboriginal and Islanders Legal Service in co-operation with the Foundation for Aboriginal and Islander Research Action. I do not 
Control of various matters 
Who should control: want to go through the whole of the document. However, I have shown the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  a copy of the relevant page from which I intend to quote in part. I seek leave to have the page incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave not granted. 
-In that case I will read the table on that page to the Senate. It states: 
Even though a quorum has been formed I am disappointed to see the lack of interest shown by  Senator Georges  and his colleagues because there are only about five Labor Party senators in the chamber at the moment. This shows the extent of their interest in this debate. I do not mind a little bit of harassment while I am speaking on behalf of the indigenous people of this country because I have had plenty of that and I can put up with it. This sort of behaviour does not worry me greatly anyway. I would like to read the remainder of the table to which I was referring. It contains the results of a survey conducted among some 925 people in Aboriginal communities in Queensland. It continues, dealing with who should control various matters: 

<graphic href="076232197804066_50_1.jpg"></graphic>

I would like to take just a moment to congratulate you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  on your appointment as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees. The information given in the table is an indication of the feelings of my people in these communities. We believe that we have now come of age'. We are ready, willing and able to start managing our own affairs in the communities in which we live in the various parts of Queensland. The Premier of Queensland and his Government are not prepared to accept that. I read from the transcript of an interview on the program  AM  conducted by  Mr Peter  Wrapp. He was asking a question of the Premier. He said: 
Aboriginal leaders attending the National Aboriginal Conference in Canberra are highly critical of the legislation. They say it doesn't go far enough. Do you see it as weak legislation? 
The Premier answered: 
Well, it is exactly what anybody could have told the Prime Minister and  Mr Viner.  They can never satisfy these people. They want the land, they want the mineral rights, they want everything. They want the whole country. They want to set up a northern state, they want to divide the nation. They want to annex part of Queensland with the Northern Territory and make a black state. Surely Canberra can wake up to this; that they'll never satisfy them. They try to please- and they'll listen to the Prime Minister. Stop trying to please people; do what you know is right. 
That is what the Federal Government is doing. It is doing what is right. 
The Premier uses scare tactics in saying that the Aboriginal people want to set up a black state. What a lot of nonsense. All we ask is to have the same rights as every other Australian citizen. The Premier is not saying that  Mr Iwasaki  will set up a Japanese state outside Yeppoon. Oh no, he welcomes him with open arms. 
But when my people want to control their own land he says that they are setting up an apartheid state in Australia.  Mr Iwasaki  must be going to set up an apartheid state at Yeppoon for the Japanese people. I wonder what benefits the Australian people will derive from that. They can certainly derive some benefit by doing the right thing by the indigenous people of this country by making some recompense for what has happened in the past. All we are seeking is exactly that. We are asking through this BUI that the Queensland Government allow the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to manage their own affairs. This Bill will ensure that. I know that many people including the Opposition, are saying that the Bill should be deferred. I will not agree to this Bill being deferred. It must go through. My colleagues and I who visited Aurukun and Mornington Island- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Cabinethave assured the people that it will go through. I have done this on a personal basis. My colleagues and I made a solemn promise to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island that we would do everything in our power to ensure that the Federal Government introduced forthwith legislation to prevent the Queensland Government from taking over those communities. We said that we would do everything in our power to urge the Government to take steps to introduce legislation to give self-management and self-determination to those people. 
I am pleased to say that the Minister has gone a little further than that in the drafting of this Bill. He has offered the same right to every other Aboriginal community in the State of Queensland. But we are not telling the Aboriginal communities that they have to manage their own affairs. We are not saying: 'Here is a Bill; you must work in accordance with it'. The Government is saying to them: 'Here is a Bill. The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island asked us for this opportunity and we are giving it to them. We are also giving that opportunity to each and every one of you. If you wish to take advantage of it you may do so; if you do not and you want to stay with the State Government, that is entirely your business. It is entirely up to you. ' The Minister is not forcing the views of the Federal Parliament on to the Aboriginal people in Queensland. It is saying to them for the first time: Here is your chance. ' The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
This legislation responds directly and positively to the expressed wishes of the Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island that the Commonwealth Government prevent the takeover by the Queensland Government from the Uniting Church of management of the two communities. It is carefully designed to achieve that result within the constitutional power of the Commonwealth, given by the 1967 referendum, to make special laws for the people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary. 
That is exactly what this Bill is all about. It is giving the right to those people to choose for themselves and to say to the State Government: We do not want a part of you and we do not want your administration.' But they can also say: Yes, we do. We believe that the State Government is doing more for us and we do not want any part of the Federal Government or the church. ' That is the choice they will have, and rightly so. Every other Australian citizen has that right. No one would dare to come into our homes and tell us how to lead our lives. No one tells us what motor car we can buy or what house we can live in. We are able to make that choice for ourselves. This Bill gives the Aboriginal people the right to choose, the right to manage their own affairs and to lead a life style according to their wishes.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to support my statement that this Bill ought not be held up but should be pushed through this Parliament as expeditiously as is humanly possible, I will read a telegram that I received only this afternoon. It is from Professor Busch, Moderator of the Uniting Church in Queensland; Reverend Gordon Coutts, Administration Officer of the Uniting Church; and  Mr W.  McMillan, solicitor for the Community of Aurukun, acting on behalf at the Aurukun people. The telegram reads: 
Imperative in the interests of the residents of Mornington Island and Aurukun Aboriginal Reserves that Government legislation be passed by Parliament today. Delay in passing legislation will precipitate State Government action in current situation. 
That is from the three people who have been involved in this matter ever since it started. 
-They have not stated that in the telegram. I suggest that  Senator Harradine  write to them and ask them. I received a second telegram this afternoon from the  President  of the Uniting Church. The message is: 
Please feel free to quote me as saying that the Uniting Church regards it as a matter of great importance that legislation passes all stages today. 
These are the people who were in the fight with the State Government for the takeover of those two communities. They are supporting what the Government is doing, at the moment, I too support what the Government is doing for the simple reason that I gave a promise to these people that I would do everything in my power to ensure that this legislation was introduced, following the promise of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that it would be done. Now that it has passed through the other place the legislation is in this chamber. I want to see it passed and I will do everything I can to ensure that it is passed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister will be no doubt aware that the Queensland Government abolished the two reserves known as Aurukun and Mornington Island after the debate that took place and the Bill that was passed here last week. Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps the Federal Government now intends to take to preserve the rights and the dignity of the Aboriginal people in the two communities now known as Mornington Island and Aurukun? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware that last Sunday three clergymen and a number of other Christians were arrested for singing hymns in a park in the city of Brisbane, Queensland? I further ask: Can the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any truth in the rumour that the Premier of Queensland is negotiating with Bullens' African Lion Safari and Zoo to have the Christians thrown to the lions? If so, what steps can the Commonwealth Government take to prevent that from happening? 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The provisions of legislation empowering Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders who live on reserves in Queensland to manage and control their own affairs, and, in particular- 
whether the constitutional conception underlying the legislation and the principles and structure of the legislation are consistent with the proper responsibilities of the Commonwealth; 
whether the system of self-management of Aboriginal reserves established by the legislation is the most effective to fulfil proper obligations of the Commonwealth to the Aboriginal people; and 
whether, in the opinion of the Committee, the sections of the legislation are constitutional, comprehensive, consistent and effective, or whether any amendments should be made to the legislation. 
Many years ago, when I first started to take an interest in politics, I decided, as an Aborigine, that perhaps it was time a member of my race became involved in parliamentary procedures and endeavoured to become a member of parliament. I had the choice at that time of contesting a seat in the Queensland State Parliament and becoming a member of the Legislative Assembly or contesting a seat for either the House of Representatives or the Senate in the Federal Parliament. After a lot of consideration and discussions with a number of people I decided that I should make an effort to become a senator. One of the reasons that convinced me I should do that is that the Senate is  a  house of review, a house where legislation introduced by the Government in the House of Representatives is looked at again, providing what might be called a cooling-off period between the introduction of the legislation in the House of Representatives and the time that it becomes law. 
As a house of review, the Senate has an opportunity to examine legislation in minute detail, to look at specific clauses and ensure that the Bill carries out the spirit of what the Government is trying to do. Most of all, the Senate has an opportunity to consider whether legislation is in the interests of the people of Australia and, as I am a Queenslander, in the general interests of the 
State of Queensland. That is one of the reasons why I became a senator. I believed, and I still believe, in the Senate as a house of review, a place where legislation is examined closely. Another thing that attracted me to this place was the fact that a number of committees had been set up by the Senate whereby legislation, matters of interest and matters of importance to the people of Australia could be debated not only in this chamber and in the Committee of the Whole but also by the committees. 
When the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Bill was debated in this chamber last week a number of people, particularly my colleague who sits next to me,  Senator Wright  from Tasmania, raised points that I believe need further and closer examination. It is not possible in this chamber to examine matters as closely and as minutely as can be done by a committee. I suppose there are those who might ask why I seek to have the matter referred to a Senate standing committee rather than a Senate select committee. Since coming to this place I have been a member of a number of committees. The first committee of which I was a member was the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, and the next was the Senate Standing Committee on the Social Environment, which looked into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and into the protection of their sacred sites.  Mr President,  at one time you were the  Chairman  of that Committee. I congratulate you for the amount of work that you did in relation to the investigations of that Committee. As you will recall, I had the great honour of presenting the Committee's final report. The next Committee of which I became a member was the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, under the chairmanship of my colleague  Senator Jessop. 
So I am aware of the work of a number of committees, and particularly of the Committee to which I have asked that this matter be referred- the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Since I have been a member of this Parliament that Committee has looked at a number of issues. I have lists of them here. I suppose that one of the most important issues as far as the people of Australia are concerned was the Family Law Bill. That matter was referred to the Committee, which considered it and heard evidence from quite a lot of people. The result was that it made a number of recommendations. I am quite sure that the members of that Committee are very proud of the fact that nearly all, if not all, of the recommendations of that Committee were adopted by the government of the day. It was not a government of my political persuasion. The Committee brought in a bi-partisan report, and nearly all of its recommendations were adopted by the government of the day. 
Another very important matter that was referred to that Committee in 1977, under the present government, was the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill. I say proudly that the recommendations made by the Committee were approved and accepted by the Government on 8 March 1978. The Committee has had a record of examining legislation very carefully and or bringing to the attention of the Government inadequacies in it. It has made recommendations and the Government has accepted those recommendations, having to change its mind on a number of things. What I am doing now is not very different from what has been done previously. I move my motion for a specific reason. This is an important issue. It is important to people. It is important to the Aboriginal people of Queensland, but it will have repercussions throughout the length and breadth of Australia. For the first time a government has looked at the rights of the Aboriginal people to do the things they want to do. 
The Government has introduced this legislation to give the Aboriginal people- my people- in Queensland the right to be able to manage, direct and determine their own future and what they desire to do for themselves. By the same token I accept the fact that a number of people, including  Senator Cavanagh,  were concerned that matters within the legislation needed to be looked at more closely. My colleague  Senator Wright  was concerned. He raised a couple of matters. I believe that if the legislation is referred to the Committee the members will be able to look at it very closely and perhaps from their investigations will come a better Bill- a better deal for Aboriginal people. I am sure that that is what concerns all of us- a better deal for people, because this Bill is about people. If it can be improved in some way by the Committee having a look at it, surely no one could object to that. I strongly commend my motion and hope that the Senate will see fit to agree to it. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces. 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services. 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia. 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as aforesaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces. 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray. 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, by saying that the Queensland Government has now introduced its Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Bill 1978. In view of that fact, can the Minister assure the Senate that consultation will take place between the Federal Government and the councils of both Aurukun and Mornington Island before any decision is made by the Federal Government in relation to this iniquitous piece of legislation of the Queensland Government? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate what has happened to the Criminal Investigation Bill which was introduced by his predecessor? Does the Minister intend to re-introduce the Bill and, if he does, when? 
I  present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from nine citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces. 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services. 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia. 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as aforesaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces. 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that under the medical benefits tables there is no provision for reimbursement for the purchase of dental mouthguards by sports men and women? As the use of mouthguards in contact sports almost totally reduces the incidence of dental damage and the resultant cost of remedial treatment, conservatively estimated at $300 per tooth for plugging and capping, does the Minister agree that preventive dentistry costing approximately $30 is sound economic sense? If so, I ask the Minister to give the most serious consideration to amending the schedule to include reimbursement of the cost of this essential equipment and thus encourage its use which to date has been restricted for financial reasons. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that Medibank is refusing to reimburse fees for pre-match medical examinations for amateur boxers? Does the Minister know that such medical checkups are a requisite to ensure the health and well-being of the participants in this sport? Will the Minister examine this matter to see what can be done to help the participants? 
-I refer the attention of the Minister representing the Minister  for  Environment, Housing and Community Development to an answer given by the Minister yesterday in the  Other  place which appears on page 1957 of the House of Representatives  Hansard.  It relates to protection of the Great Barrier Reef from any commercial activity which might cause it harm. In particular I refer to that part of the Minister's answer which stated: 
Of course, in any decision that might be made there would have to be consultation with the Queensland Government. 
As questions of mining involving large corporate interests and vested interests of powerful private persons will no doubt arise, does the Minister anticipate that he will enjoy a much closer rapport with the Queensland Premier and his Government than that which  is  presently being experienced by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development will recall that yesterday I asked him a question concerning the Great Barrier Reef and oil drilling. I refer to two parts of the answer to that question. The first part is: 
We only hear of occasions when there is some kind of dispute or conflict between governments. Ninety-nine times out of 100 there is amity and unity. 
Am I to infer from that that out of the last one hundred occasions when the State and Federal Governments have been negotiating, only once has there been a lack of amity and unitybecause it was a matter of Aboriginal affairs? The second part of the answer to which I refer is: 
I have no doubt in the wide world that in a matter of such considerable concern the Commonwealth and the Queensland governments will work in amity and to a common purpose for the preservation of the Reef. 
Am I to infer from that that neither the Commonwealth nor the Queensland Government views the matter of Aboriginal welfare and wellbeing as being of considerable concern? 
I support the matter of public importance which has been raised by the Opposition, for to me it is not only a matter of public importance but also a matter of very deep and grave concern to a section of the Australian community. That section of the community- that is the people of my race and in particular the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island- has a grave and deep concern over the Queensland Government threat of what will happen to them. Many honourable senators on this side of the chamber are as gravely concerned about this issue as I am and as are the people we represent, namely the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I have received great support from a number of my colleagues, and I pay tribute to them for the kind of assistance they have given and for the concern they have shown. 
We are discussing a matter of public importance which has been brought forward by the Opposition. It is just simply that. It has no teeth; it can do nothing. All it does is allow honourable senators to stand up and to reiterate what has been said in this chamber time and time again. I refer to a speech I made in this chamber on 12 March 1974. What I said on that occasion is perhaps just as relevant and just as important today, if not more important, as it was at the time I said it. I stated: 
I believe it is time- to adopt a phrase- that Aboriginal advancement and the cause of the Aboriginal people became an issue far and above Party politics. I say to you, my colleagues: Stop taking political kudos from a problem that should be concerning us all. I believe that the indigenous people of this nation are entitled to be given opportunities, encouragement and assistance to enable them to become respected and responsible members of the community. Let us stop making this matter a political football. I have listened in this chamber and read the Hansard of the other place and I have seen where the Aboriginal people have been tossed from one side to the other as though they were a political football . . . 
Perhaps those words will now fall on more receptive ears than they did at that time. The situation I spoke about in that speech is still going on. I made a speech on land rights some little time ago. I wish to read from that speech also because those things which my brothers and sisters of Mornington Island and Aurukun are endeavouring to achieve and are concerned about are embodied in that speech. I stated: 
I baulk at the task of adequately describing this mystic affinity which has been handed down from father to son for nigh on 40,000 years. Even I, the urban and so-called sophisticated Aborigine, can not explain, nor escape from, the strong ties that bind me to the earth of this continent. Still today, one of my greatest joys is to walk upon virgin land, untouched and unsullied by the  whiteman's  progress . . . 
This absolute love of the land moves us all. It is completely foreign to the white Australian, who looks upon land as a selfish possession, a symbol of wealth, something to be fenced off and enjoyed to the exclusion of all others . . . Land ownership, particularly to our tribal brothers - 
I make this reference in particular because of our concern today for the people of Mornington Island and Aurukun--  is something which defies adequate definition. Perhaps land ownership can best be described as a continuing dynamic notion, not bounded by geographical limits of a government surveyor. It is a living, breathing entity, made up of earth, sky, clouds, rivers, trees, rocks, and the spirits which created all these things. It is the place wherein our spirits will reside in the great dreamtime. It is an extension of our very souls, it is our everything. 
But what of the attitude of the Queensland Government and of the Queensland Parliament to these things? I went on in that speech to say: 
In what is termed the Deep North of Australia, we have colonialism personified by a government whose policies are outmoded, outdated, and reek of racism. In our State, Queensland, we have the worst case of racial discrimination, the great white father image, whose policies are designed to oppress our people and keep them dependent on the State Government . . . These attitudes must not be allowed to continue and relegate our people into the category of second class citizens. I have and will continue to attack these antiquated and discriminatory laws, both outside and inside the Parliament. 
This argument is all about the attitude of the Queensland Government. There is no point in my going over again the events that have taken place since that time not so very long ago when the Queensland Government decided to take over the management and the running of the Aurukun and the Mornington Island reserves against the wishes of the people and against the wishes of the Uniting Church in Australia which had been administering those two communities for nigh on 70 years. 
Thousands of words have been written about this matter, television interviews have been conducted on it and radio programs have been devoted to it, so there is no point in my going through all those things which took place. I want to talk about the legislation which was introduced by the Queensland Government. It has been said time and again- it has been said in this chamber today- that it must be satisfactory to the Commonwealth Government, it must be satisfactory to the Opposition and it must be satisfactory to me. I say that it does not have to be satisfactory to any of those groups; it has to be satisfactory to the people who are sitting in the President's Gallery, the Aboriginal people. If this legislation is not in keeping with their wishes, it is no good, because it will not give the people that to which they are rightly and justly entitledselfmanagement and self-determination in their own communities and security of tenure of the land so that they will have something that they can say is theirs. 
Why is it necessary now for the original owners of that land to go cap in hand to governments to have returned to them that which was rightfully theirs? It was not given to them by Prime Ministers of this country or by Premiers of Queensland. That land was given to my people by God Almighty- not by a white man. White men came and took it away from them, and now all they are asking for is the return of that land so that they can live on it. 
-That is right. White men are still squabbling over whether they should give it back to them. The Australian people are supposed to be God-fearing, Christian people. In this place we say prayers every morning. Yet we deny the people something which was given to them by the Almighty. They were in possession of it long before Captain Cook discovered it. I hate to use that word 'discovered'. He could not have discovered it because it was not lost in the first place. We had it. But here we go again, squabbling about whether the people should have the right to their own little bit of earth that means so much to them. It is their everything. It is life itself to them. But it is denied to them. 
As we know, the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs and the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads, the Honourable Russell Hinze, introduced the legislation into the Queensland Parliament. I have had an opportunity, along with a number of my colleagues, to examine it and I find that many of its clauses are totally unacceptable. I cannot accept them; yet I am not really the one who should be accepting them anyway. As I said earlier, it should be the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I have set out my thoughts on approximately 16 clauses and have advised the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Ian Viner, of them so that he could use them in Cabinet discussions if he wanted to. As I am not a member of the Cabinet I do not know whether he did so but I understand that the Government has been in contact with the Queensland Government, and has advised it that the Commonwealth Government is not satisfied with a number of clauses and that in its present form the Bill is unacceptable. 
In view of the limitation of time I will not go through all the clauses. Suffice to say that, as far as I am concerned and as far as the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island should be concerned, the most important one is clause 6 which says, in part, that the Governor in Council shall grant to Council of the Shire of Aurukun a lease of the whole or part as he thinks fit. There is no certainty that the people will get all the land. The Commonwealth Government, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have stated that the reserve lands as such should be handed to the Aboriginal people of Aurukun and Mornington Island on lease with the elected councils as the trustees. 
That was the agreement made here in Canberra between the State and Federal Ministers. Now that has been thrown out the window. I believe that that agreement has to be adhered to and that that clause of the Bill must be thrown out. I believe also that clause 7 is not in the best interests of the people. It says that the grant is not to include improvements. Does it mean that the houses, the shops, the stores, the garage, the boats, the ramps, the tractors, the motor cars and the trucks will not belong to the people and that the Queensland Government will own them? If it is to own all the improvements, what are the people supposed to own? They will have nothing. 
The Federal Minister has contacted the State Government. 1 understand that the Bill has been taken before the Queensland Cabinet and that the Queensland Minister has stated that the Bill will be re-introduced next week. If I know anything about Queensland, the Government will want to rush that Bill through in one day and have it become law. The Federal Government has a responsibility and a duty to ensure that the Bill is not passed in its present form. Even when the Bill is introduced I believe that the Federal Government has a responsibility to ensure that it lies on the table for at least two weeks so that all people can have a look at it and see whether it is a good or a bad Bill. If it is anything like the draft Bill, I certainly will not be happy with it and I will certainly be raising my voice in objection to it. I hope that sanity will prevail in the Queensland Parliament but I do not hold out a great deal of hope for it. I hope that the Queensland Government will listen to the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and have the clauses changed so that the Bill is acceptable to the people and so that the people will not be denied their fundamental rights. 
I rise to indicate my support for the Bill to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. I do not intend to take a great deal of the Senate's time. I will make a couple of points to indicate why I am supporting the Bill. It appears that when the original Bill was introduced into this chamber some things were not properly taken care of. The second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  indicates that now there will be changes to make the Bill a better Bill for the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. The Government has received legal advice that the Act requires specific identification of the Aboriginal groups involved. The lack of this feature in the Act has not made it possible for a trust to be established. This Bill will amend the Act to allow that to happen. 
It is important that this be done because the time it would take to identify all the owners of the lands under the Act in the Northern Territory would be possibly five or six years. I do not think there is any necessity for specific identification of owners in the Northern Territory anyway, because the Aboriginal people themselves know who owns what land and they will sort this out for themselves. All that is needed is that a trust should have the deeds and title of the land and, working in conjunction with the Northern Land Council, that trust will work these things out. I was  Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory. My colleagues and I were well aware that the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory knew where the lands and the boundaries were. They did not need anybody to survey the land for them. They knew from their own experience and their own understanding of their culture which was their land, and I can assure the Senate that they needed no assistance from us or from anyone else. This amendment was required. The Act must be changed to enable it to state what was intended in the first place. 
Secondly, this Bill will allow the creation or the setting up of other councils. When the Committee visited the Tiwi people they told us that they would prefer to have their own council for their area. They were not quite happy with the Northern Land Council. We did not agree with all their criticism of the Council. I have a great respect and admiration for the  Chairman  and the Council. I believe that the Council is doing and will continue to do a magnificent job. That did not alter the fact that the Tiwi people felt that it was not good enough; they preferred to have their own land council. Under this Bill provision will be made for its setting up. I indicate my support for the Bill and hope that it will have a speedy passage and that we will all make sure that it is passed so that its provisions can be implemented as soon as is humanly possible. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Does he agree that at present there is a dire and urgent need for overseas technology to be made available to all Australian industry, both small and large, on a more equitable basis than presently exists? Therefore, will the Minister inform the chamber what steps are being taken to ensure that technological advances will be within the monetary reach particularly of small businesses so that their continued viability and the tenure of employment of all those thousands of Australians presently unemployed can be guaranteed? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of a Press article appearing in the  Courier Mail  and headed: 'Aurukun bars 3 State officials'. I preface my question by reading part of the article: 
Aboriginal councillors at Aurukun yesterday refused to allow three Queensland Government officers into the former aboriginal reserve. 
The article goes on to state: 

 Mr Peinkinna said  Mr Butler  and two other officers of the DAIA had arrived by air yesterday morning, announcing that they were ready to set up an office and to employ people at Aurukun. 
He said  Mr Butler  had not asked the council if he could enter the community, but had sent a telegram yesterday saying only that he was arriving. 

 Mr Peinkinna said the Aurukun Council had replied by telegram yesterday telling  Mr Butler  that the community did not want 'State Government interference '. 
He said  Mr Butler  had arrived with a load of government stationery and office equipment. 

 Mr Peinkinna also alleged that  Mr Butler,  when stopped at the airstrip gate had threatened that the Aurukun Council would be dismissed and an administrator appointed. 
I ask the Minister: Are we to assume now that every time the councillors on either the Mornington Island or Aurukun reserves disagree with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs or the Minister for Local Government they will be under the constant threat of their councils being dismissed and administrators being appointed? If this is an example of the right to self-determination, I would like to see it justified. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Health confirm that it is the Government's intention to reduce to a meagre 75 per cent the present 85 per cent payable in respect of the standard fee for service to pensioners? Does the Minister acknowledge that at present within the medical profession there exists a tacit agreement whereby its members on the whole accept the 85 per cent in full payment for their services, thus alleviating any further pecuniary burden on the pensioners' already strained finances? 1 preface my further question by congratulating members of the medical profession on the compassionate leniency which they extend at present to the pensioners. I further ask the Minister: What consultation, if any, took place with the Australian Medical Association prior to this reduction being considered? Did the Minister receive any assurance from the AMA that its members would continue to render services to pensioners at this proposed level of payment? If the Minister cannot give this assurance, does she agree that the present medical service will deteriorate and that this in itself is a further discrimination against those members of our society whose very age demands that they receive the best medical care available? Does she also agree that the provision of such care should be well within their financial resources to allow them to enjoy fully the twilight of their years with dignity, free from further unwarranted financial worries, as is the birthright of every Australian and, in particular, of those who have given a lifetime of service to our nation? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns an anomaly which exists within her Department. Is it a fact that a blind person is not subject to the means test and, in the case of additional income earned to supplement the added financial burdens of his disability, he pays tax only on such additional income and not on the sum of the pension plus income? Conversely, on attaining the required age of 60 or 65 years, as the case may be, does that same person then, by some peculiar anomaly, pay tax on the income plus the pension? Does the Minister agree that a blind person's disability does not cease at that age and in most cases increases as his mobility decreases with the onset of years? Will the Minister take steps to remove this present irregularity? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the second World Assembly of the World Council of Indigenous People was held in Sweden from 24 to 27 August 1977 and was attended by people from 18 countries? Is the Minister also aware that it was decided that the next meeting of the Assembly would be held in Australia? Can the Minister say what financial help the Australian Government would be prepared to give the Assembly to ensure the success of its meeting in Australia? 
I would like to say a few words about the retiring senators. When I came to this place in 1971I was a green boy from the bush. Of course, I have not known some of them for very long. First and foremost I shall say a few words about  Senator Bill  Brown. The honourable senator and I served on a committee together when I first became a member of this place. I wish him all the best in his retirement. He has been a very good friend. Althought we have been on different sides of the House. I believe that our relationship has been very good. I believe that he has made a very worthwhile contribution to the Parliament during the time that he has been here. I say to Bill that I have appreciated his friendship. Although we did not always agree on many issues, I believe we have been pretty good friends. 

 Senator Donald Cameron was one of the chaps who befriended me when I first came into this place. He helped me in many ways during my first few years in this place until I found my feet. We had many good games of pool down in the corner when things were not very busy.  Senator Don  Devitt was one chap who took me under his wing when I first came to this place. I wish him all the best in his retirement. I believe that he has made a very worthwhile contribution to the Parliament. 
I do not know  Senator Kerry  Sibraa very well but I wish him well in his retirement. I express the wish of other speakers that his retirement will not be for very long. Perhaps we will see him back in this place. I do not know  Senator Janine  Haines very well but in the short time that she has been here she has certainly made a very worthwhile conribution in this chamber. I say to  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman that I have enjoyed his friendship. I acknowledge the contribution he has made to this chamber. I remember very vividly the first time I made my contribution in the chamber and I voted against my Government. Tom Drake-Brockman took me aside and gave me a fatherly talking to. He said: 'Look Neville, you know there are times when many of us will disagree with our own political parties. Do not let anyone give you a bad time'. But I suppose we are all guilty of doing that from time to time in this chamber. 
I have known  Senator Tom  Tehan since he has been here. I think that Tom has made a very worthwhile contribution and 1 wish him well.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is also retiring from this place. When I first came into this chamber I used to sit in the seat where  Senator Harold  Young is sitting now. I was a new boy in this place. I remember that  Sir Magnus  was the  President  sitting in the chair. He would look at me and if I were slouching in my seat I would sit up. I was like a little boy caught out at school. I would sit up straight.  Sir Magnus  made a tremendous contribution to this chamber and to Australia generally. I wish him well in his retirement.  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton was a Minister when I first entered the chamber. Bob Cotton was one of the people who was very kind to me. I want to wish him well in his retirement. 
I first met my colleague from Queensland, Ian Wood, in 1970 when I made my run to come into this place. It was Ian Wood who took me around the sticks in Queensland and showed me the ropes. Ian Wood probably has more political nous than most people in this chamber. Any honourable senator who has been out in the sticks with Ian Wood and campaigned with him would know that he has the capacity to talk with the people at the grass roots level. When Ian Wood stands on the stumps people stop and listen to what he has to say. I have a lot for which to thank Ian Wood. During my run to get into this chamber Ian Wood gave me a lot of strength, a lot of courage and a lot of encouragement to continue and carry the Liberal Party flag. I believe that during his 29 years in this Parliament he has made a very worthwhile contribution not only to the Parliament but to Australia generally. I want to say to Ian that I have enjoyed his friendship and his companionship. I believe that on his retirement from the Senate many people, particularly in Queensland, will remember the contribution that he has made to this Parliament and the independence that he has shown. I believe that one of the wonderful things about the Liberal Party is that one can show one's independence. That he has done over the 29 years that he has been in this Parliament. I congratulate him and wish him well in his retirement. 
I would like to tell the Senate a funny story about my old friend over there, Reg Wright, who has sat with me for the last two years. During the period that the Honourable  Sir Reginald  Wright was sitting with me on this side of the chamber, one day he had papers all over the seat, all over the desks and down on the floor. I said to him: 
Hey, what do you think this is- a b..... black's camp?'. He sat back and looked at me in the way that only  Sir Reginald  Wright can and said: Well, isn't it?'.  Mr President,  that typifies the kind of bloke that Reg Wright is. He can give as well as take and most times he gives before he takes. I wish  Sir Reginald  Wright all the best in his retirement. I know that this chamber will be the poorer for his leaving it. I believe sincerely that he will be sorely missed not only in this chamber but by the people of Australia for the contribution that he has made to the Senate. 

 -Mr Deputy President, before entering this debate may I offer my sincere congratulations upon your elevation to the office of  Deputy President  and  Chairman  of Committees and say that I look forward to working with you, and to your guidance on the occasions when you occupy the chair. 
I am delighted to enter this debate, on the matter of public importance, which has been initiated by the Opposition. The terms of the matter are worth repeating. They are: 
The immediate need for the Commonwealth Government to implement the provisions of Section SI sub-section 26 as amended by the 1967 Referendum and sub-section 31 of the Australian Constitution to meet the wishes of the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities. 
I suppose I could say that I am rather consistent in supporting that proposition because consistently, since this controversy broke out, I have called for that action to be taken. It is interesting to look back upon the occasion when the Federal and State Governments allegedly got together down here. It is worth reading a joint statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premier of Queensland- signed, I might add, by Malcolm Fraser, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, Charles Porter, Peter Nixon, Ian Viner, Doug Anthony and Russ Hinze. Part of the statement, if I may take the liberty of reading from it, is: 
a local government authority for each to be created on the boundaries of the existing reserves; 
the local government council will consist of the existing councils until the next State Local Government council elections which will take place next April. These councils will be the managing authority; 
I emphasise what that agreement says: 
These councils will be the managing authority; 
The statement continues: 
in order to support the communities, there will for each one be a co-ordinating and advisory committee to the Council consisting of people representative of authorities delivering services including one representative of the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
So much for that agreement, which was signed by the top authorities in government in this country today. They still are, as I understand it, because I do not think that any of them have since been sacked. But what has happened? This advisory committee had, I am told, some consultation with the Aboriginal people, but when the Premier of the State of Queensland and his Government, through their Cabinet, decided that they would sack the councils, there was no consultation with that advisory committee and the Aboriginal people or the Aboriginal councils- none at all. 
Again, the Government of Queensland, and its Premier, have exercised their power over the lives of people and have said, 'You cannot be a council any more; we are going to sack you'. They do not say for how long. They appoint an administrator. According to the Press, and to some of the statements that have been made, the councils have been sacked and the administrator will be there; but the Premier, on the occasions when he has visited the communities has not seen the 750 people that are supposed to be there; he has seen only 300 or 400. Because of that he is now to have I suppose what we, as station people, as stockmen, would have called a bang-tail muster, to count heads. It will take until April next year before his bang-tail muster is a success. Then a decision will be made whether they will have another council election. 
In the meantime, as I said in the beginning, when this legislation was introduced in Queensland and that clause was insertedproviding that the Minister for Local Government would have the power to dissolve the councils and appoint an administrator- there is nothing to say for how long that administrator will be there. There is nothing to say when the next election will be held. So the Queensland Government will have the power over the lives of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, despite the fact that those people have done everything in their power to get support from the Federal Government, from the Prime Minister, from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and from anyone else- as my colleague on the other side of the chamber has said, from anyone prepared to listen, saying: 'Please help us; we do not want the State Government to have control of our lives'. 
So  Mr Viner  said, in a statement made some time ago, on 22 March 1 978:   . . the Government's decision was based on its commitment to the principle of Aboriginal self-management, their right to be as free as other Australians to make their own decisions and determine their own futures, and their right to be free of paternalistic management of their affairs by Government. 
If that is what the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs believes, if that is what this Government believes, if it is what this Parliament believes, what is happening at present at Aurukun and Mornington Island?  Mr Viner  went on to say: 
It is no longer good enough for officials and Governments to decide what is in the best interests of Aboriginals. Aboriginals must be free of paternalistic, bureaucratic control. All Commonwealth policy and action is designed to that end. 
We believe they are ready for self-management, they believe it and they are going to get it. 
Let us cast our minds over recent events and some of the statements by the Premier of Queensland to see whether the Aborigines have self-management and self-determination. 
On 14 August 1978 the following report appeared in the  Australian: 
The Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said yesterday: 'The situation will be considered by State Cabinet on Tuesday and it will be cleaned up then'. 
He would not give details but promised that action would be positive. 
It surely was positive action- the sacking of the councils. The article quotes  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  further as follows: 
My visit to the communities confirmed what I've been hearing all along,' he said. 'Things are completely out of hand'. 
Completely out of hand indeed. The quotation continues: 
The councils are not meeting their responsibilities. They have defied the State Government and have refused to cooperate with our officials or accept our money'. 
Surely, they have refused to have anything to do with the State Government and have been absolutely consistent in this: But to say that they have not accepted the State Government's money is a lot of nonsense because, since this controversy broke out in March of this year, the State Government has not put one solitary cent into that community. The Uniting Church has been footing the bill and has been reimbursed by the Federal Government through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs here in Canberra. So what money from the State Government have they rejected? Rejected indeed: They have not rejected money! All they have rejected is the continual interference, continual intervention, by the State Government and its Ministers, particularly the Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in Queensland, the Honourable Charles Porter. 
I wish to read in part a statement that was made by the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 30 April 1978: 
I was able to report first-hand the determined objections of the Aurukun and Mornington Island people to the Queensland Government's plans to take over management of their communities from the Uniting Church and the strength of feelings against Queensland State Government interference in their lives. 
Under the new legislation, the two community councils will determine the management of their own affairs. In their case they made it clear they want the Uniting Church to remain and continue to carry out the role it has filled in the communities since early in this century. 
That has all gone by the board. As a matter of fact, one of the Uniting Church authorities was asked to leave, was to be ejected from the community, because the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement said that he wanted the house that person was living in. Also, other people were ejected from the community. It certainly goes against the grain with all decent thinking people when action such as this is taken against a group of people who unfortunately at the moment are unable to help themselves. All they are saying to us in this Federal Parliament, in this Senate chamber, is Please help'. I have telegrams and letters from them saying: 'Please help. Talk to your friends in Parliament and help us with the problems we face at the moment'. I quote in part from a second reading speech made by the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He stated: 
When I visited Aurukun on 30 March and Mornington Island on 1 April to explain the position of the Commonwealth and to listen to their views, the Councils and the people of the two communities made it absolutely clear to me that they did not wish to have the Queensland Department manage their communities and believed that any joint management arrangement was undesirable and unworkable and they were opposed to it. 
That is the voice of the people. I ask the question now of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and his Ministers: During the consultations the Federal Minister had with the Aboriginal people, where were the activists, where were the radicals? Can  Mr Viner  verify that there were radicals, stirrers, commos and pinkos at the meetings with the Aboriginal people which he attended, or do these people somehow turn up only when  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and his Ministers go there? Why did these people not turn up when  Mr Viner  was there or when I was there with some of my colleagues who are present today, such as John Knight and Kathy Martin? 
Maybe we are some of the pinkos about whom  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was talking. 

 Senator Missen- Mr Bjelke-Petersen has a vivid imagination. 
He has a very vivid imagination. As a matter of fact, he has a red imagination. Quoting again from the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Minister stated: 
The Queensland Premier is reported to have said recently that: The people of the missions in Queensland live their own lives. They make all the decisions. We, the Government, don't. 
If this were so, there would be no need for the State Department to take over the official management of the two communities, nor would there be any need to introduce this Bill. 
That quote is taken from the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs when he introduced the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Bill. My goodness, what self-management? What was the use of introducing that Bill when none of its provisions has been carried out? The people are still being dictated to and are being overridden by the Queensland Government in everything they try to do. I would like to quote a statement made by the Prime Minister of Australia, the Right Honourable Malcolm Fraser, when he was speaking to the National Aboriginal Conference early this year. He said: 
It was never good enough for politicians or bureaucrats whether at the State or Federal level to impose on the Aboriginal people their conception of what was good for the Aboriginal people. Aboriginals have the same right as other Australian citizens to determine what is best for them. 
In another part of the Prime Minister's speech he said: 
These communities have turned to us. We will not fail them. 
That was the leader of the Federal Government speaking and saying 'We will not fail them'. I pray to God that somehow those words will finally come true. I think it is appropriate now, before my time runs out, that I quote the words of one of the great Australians, the late Albert Namatjira, who served three months confinement on an Aboriginal reserve. As he left the Supreme Court he made this famous heart rending plea: 
Shoot me. Shoot me. Kill me. Put an end to all this. Better kill us like dogs if you can't let us live like men. 
I, Neville Bonner, repeat those words here today. Kill us. Shoot us. Kill us like dogs instead of what is being done at the moment. Shoot us and kill us like dogs if we cannot be allowed to live like men. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the fact that the Queensland Government-appointed administrator is going into Aurukun and Mornington Island on Wednesday, 23 August, what is the Commonwealth Government's attitude now? 
My question which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Health refers to children who suffer from brain damage.  Mr President,  I seek your indulgence to give some information to make the question clear as the question is rather important. Is the Minister aware of an intensive physical exercise aimed at stimulating the undamaged areas of the brain to take over the function of those areas which have been damaged? Is the Minister also aware that this program was designed many years ago by Glen Doman, an American physiotherapist? I understand that this program offers the only hope of complete recovery and many of its 'graduates' are completely indistinguishable from their peers. Some even have graduated from universities. For many years the program was available only to those Australians who could afford to take their children to the United States of America or to Britain. Now ACBIC has been established in Melbourne which reduces the cost of treatment as the American experts now are flown out here. But the cost is still prohibitive. It costs $1,800 a year plus air fares and accommodation for those who come from interstate. Also, there is no tax deduction allowed for this expense or refund from health insurance. In view of those factors, I ask the Minister: As the United Nations prepares to focus the world's attention on the rights of children with the International Year of the Child, what is Australia doing to ensure that its brain damaged children are given every opportunity to full recovery? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Since all wildlife experts are agreed that the feral cat is almost impossible to catch, and also in view of the fact that domestic cats are disappearing at an alarming rate and that animal lovers throughout the nation are becoming greatly disturbed, I ask the Minister: Will a Federal ban be placed on the sale of cat skins to the fur market and the export of cat skins in an effort to prevent cat-napping of domestic cats? 
-I welcome the tabling of the report by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle.  Whilst I, like other senators, have not seen the full report and look forward to examining it closely and making my own assessment of it, by the same token I welcome its tabling and what the Minister has had to say concerning it. It has, surely, taken some time to bring down the report. It was not something into which one could rush. There were a lot of people to be interviewed, a lot of examinations to be carried out. I am also very happy to see that some of the Pacific Islanders were consulted in the whole affair. Unfortunately I find in too many instances, that when reports concerning minority groups are brought into this Parliament the minority groups themselves are not even consulted. Expertise is derived from somewhere or other, and that is the kind of report we get. 
Yes. I am grateful for that,  Senator Baume.  This is an area that has been neglected ever since the Pacific Islanders were brought here under the blackbirding system, which, as has been pointed out by my colleague  Senator Keeffe,  was a very cruel and certainly inhumane system that was pursued by certain people around the turn of the century. Many of the Islanders died in transit. Many were murdered in transit. They were brought here under false pretences, or in chains and leg irons, and were used- I say the word advisedly because that is exactly what happened- to build up one of the main industries in my State of Queensland. I refer to the sugar industry. After that industry had been established, and because of pressure, the blackbirding and slavery of these people were stopped. 
All of a sudden a government said 'We have had the use of you; now you can all go back to your islands if you wish'. Some did not wish to do that. Having been torn away from their homeland, from friends and relatives, brought to a foreign country and used as they were, having suffered prejudice and discrimination of the worst kind, they had lost their ties and were not willing to go back. They remained here, living under much the same conditions as their counterpart- we, the Aborigines and the Torres Strait Islanders- suffering prejudice, discrimination, lack of opportunity for employment, decent housing, education and everything else that we, the indigenes of this country, suffered. 
I certainly hope that the Government will take note of this report and that some assistance will be given to this group of people. I do not believe that the Government could go as far as it would have to go in relation to the Aboriginal or the Torres Strait Islanders, we who are indigenous to this country. I certainly believe some assistance is warranted, particularly in those areas where they suffer the same handicaps that we suffer- in education, health, housing and job opportunities. I hope that the Government would find it possible to give some assistance to this disadvantaged group of people, who are here not because they wanted to come here but because they were brought here in such a cruel manner under the slave trading and blackbirding days of the turn of the century. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface my question by referring the Minister to page 1 1 in the third edition of the Commonwealth  Style Manual  wherein it states: 
When referring to the first inhabitants of Australia, prefer the forms  Aboriginal  (singular noun),  Aboriginals  (plural noun) and  Aboriginal  (adjective). While the form  Aborigine  is not acceptable as an alternative to  Aboriginal  for the singular noun,  Aborigines  may be used as an alternative plural form. These words should be dignified with a capital letter in the same way as  Maori, Negro  and  Red Indian. 
In an effort to establish an Australian and international racial identity for the indigenous persons of mainland Australia and Tasmania, I ask the Minister to refer to such people by using the words 'Aborigine' for the singular noun and Aborigines' for the plural noun as contained in the  Concise Oxford Dictionary  1976, sixth edition, and for the word 'Aborigine' to have a capital A. To set an example for the  Style Manual,  I ask the Minister to make this change from the use of the noun 'Aboriginal' so that we, the Aborigines, will not be referred to in the same manner as indigenous persons of other nations. I believe it is only in this way that the Aborigines of Australia can truly feel unique, as we are, and gain an identity of our own. 
I rise to indicate my support for the Budget that has been brought down by the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  in another place. I believe that it is a responsible Budget. Before we came back into government the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government were consistent in attacking one of the major causes of our economic problems today- inflation- and they have been consistent in their attacks since then. 
I am indicating my support for the Budget as a whole. As a matter of fact I intend to speak on two other very important issues. I wanted to mention the Budget because it is important. 
Absolutely. I will probably give it triple endorsement because I will be speaking again. 
If the honourable senator wants to have copies of my speech when I am finished, he can distribute them to the electorate on my behalf if he so chooses. I believe that what I have to say today is very important. I wish to bring before this chamber today two matters which I believe are important and about which the Parliament and this Government should be concerned. They affect the lives of many people. I refer, firstly, to a matter that I raised in a question to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  on 23 August 1978 concerning brain injuries to children. The Minister gave me what I felt was a responsible answer at the time, but I mention it again today because I am pressing for the Government to take more positive action in this matter of brain injured children. 
Some weeks ago while visiting Melbourne on another matter I was brought into contact with the Australian Centre for Brain Injured Children. A friend in Frankston, Melbourne, with whom I was staying, took me to see a child who had suffered brain injury. Never in my whole life have I been as affected as I was by seeing the scheme for the treatment of brain injured children which is administered by the Australian Centre for Brain Injured Children in Victoria. I visited the child's home and saw the devotion, love and affection that emanated from the young couple, who have a boy and a girl who has suffered brain injury. I saw the way that the child was treated under this scheme. It costs so much not only in time, effort and emotion but also in money. At present there is no way that families of brain injured children can get any assistance from the Government. That is why I am raising the matter. I believe that the Government must look at the problem more closely and do something positive. 
I intended to give the Senate a definition of children who come under this category. A child at the moment of conception is meant to have, as we know, a good brain. But something can happen before, during or after binh to injure the brain. The definition includes children diagnosed as having cerebral palsy or Downs syndrome, spastic children, mentally retarded children, autistic children and so on, and any child who is now functioning below peer level as a result of brain injury, ranging from a severely hurt child to one with learning problems. 
Treatment under this scheme can be administered at home. At the home of the child whom I went to see a special room had to be built and special equipment had to be bought. The idea, where brain damage has occurred, is to induce the good parts of the brain to take over the functions of the damaged part. It is a very costly program, as I said, in terms of time and effort. Eight hours a day, six days a week must be devoted to assisting the child. It is certainly best done by parents in the home, but the cost to the parents of setting up the room and buying the equipment and the cost of the treatment through the clinic also has to be taken into consideration. Parents' love and understanding naturally is helpful to the child. The Australian Centre for Brain Injured Children recognises this fact and tries to encourage it wherever possible. The child I am speaking about had no future whatsoever, but today is walking, talking, reading and writing after only 12 months of treatment. The child at eight years of age could do nothing for itself and had the functions of a child two to three months old. The family had to do everything. There was no future for the child. Today there is a bright and beautiful future for this child. 
The payment for this scheme at the moment is about $1,800. Previously parents of children such as the child to whom I have referred had to take their children to America. This would have involved the cost of fares, accommodation and treatment. Thank God the treatment is now available here. So far it is available only in Melbourne. Parents in Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide or somewhere else in one of the other States incur on top of the cost of treatment which is $ 1 ,800, the cost of fares for themselves and the child and the cost of accommodation. That expenditure is just not possible for most of the families who have children who need this kind of attention. I suggest that the Government have a look at this matter and under the health scheme or in some other way provide financial assistance for families with children who suffer these problems. 
The success level of the program, from what I have seen and been told, is in some cases 100 per cent. Some of the children who have undertaken this scheme have gone right through the education system and have graduated from university with qualifications higher than people who had never suffered brain injury at all. This has come about because of the devotion of parents and because of the new treatment that is now being used in Australia. I believe that one needs to look at this whole question in a more humane fashion. We are dealing with people who unfortunately, through no fault of their own and because of circumstances beyond the control of the parents, are not able to have this treatment. I believe that the Government must do something to assist them so that they can enjoy a full life in the same way as any other person. I believe that it is the responsibility not only of the Government but also of the community to ensure that this is brought about. 
The other subject on which I want to touch is the matter of sport. As the Senate will recall, just recently young people and some, of course, not so young had the opportunity of going to Canada for the Commonwealth Games. As has been reported in the Press, the Australian performance at the Edmonton Games was not as good as many people would have liked. 
It was creditable but if the honourable senator will bear with me I think the propositions I have to put forward will ensure that next time we will come home with a lot more gold medals than we did this time. If our performance over there was not as good as expected or as we would have liked, it is not the athletes themselves who are to be blamed. I believe that the men and women who went to Edmonton and all men and women and boys and girls who go into amateur sport not only devote their time but also go to a lot of personal expense. I believe that after events over there Australia's reputation as a great sporting nation will perhaps be regarded by some people as being in tatters. This myth can be exploded and will be exploded when we as a nation realise that when we expect men and women to go overseas to represent Australia in either the Olympic Games or the Commonwealth Games we have a responsibility to ensure that they are not victimised and that they do not suffer any hardships. I believe that it is not the fault of our athletes. It is not because they have not dedicated themselves to their particular sport. They have dedicated themselves. We have not provided training facilities of international standard and I believe we should provide them. As I said earlier, if we want our athletes to go away to represent this country we must provide them with the wherewithal and also facilities. 
The lack of properly qualified coaches is another matter. Coaches, too, suffer from lack of support and an inability to travel and study improved methods and to attend sporting medicine clinics. Even the coaches are not on a salary. They are not being paid for this. They have to put their hands in their own pockets. I believe that as a government we must give financial assistance to all areas of sport. International competition with world class athletes is something that in this country we are not able to have to the extent that we should. Our athletes have that opportunity only when they go to places like Canada to compete in the Commonwealth Games or when they compete in the Olympics. They do not have that opportunity here. I believe that this is due to a lack of adequate Federal and State funding. It is not just a matter for the Federal Government; it is a matter for all governments. These athletes are going away to represent Australia as a whole but by the same token they also represent their own States in interstate sport. Therefore I believe it is the responsibility of both State and Federal governments to ensure that some funding is made available to our amateur sporting bodies. 

 Mr Deputy President, when honourable senators compare the Canadian figures to the Australian figures they will understand what I am talking about. If we look at Canada's figures for 1976-77 we see that Canada spent $25m in assisting its sporting bodies. In 1977-78 it spent $32m. What did we in Australia spend in 1976-77? We spent nothing. In 1977-78 we spent Sim and I am told that in 1978-79 we are going to spend $1.33m. When we compare those figures with Canada's figures we can understand the situation. Everything is provided to Canadian athletes. They are funded or assisted in every way. The Government of Canada was able to allocate $25m towards assisting amateur sporting in that country, compared with Australia's measley Sim. This is what our athletes in Australia are up against. They are not given a fair go. Yet when they go away and do not do as well as we expect they receive all the criticism. If one reads the papers, if one listens to people around the sticks talking about our athletes not doing as well as we expected them to do one can well understand why they are not doing so well. I believe that they have done the best they can do under the circumstances. If we as an Australian people are not prepared to make the facilities available to them, are not prepared to fund these sporting bodies, why blame the sports men and women? We should not blame them; we should blame ourselves. When they ask for assistance it is not forthcoming. 
I believe that the old adage that it is competition and not winning which is important is not good enough. I submit that any athlete who is good enough to represent our country must be able to compete on a par with those from other countries- not just compete in the field but compete in every way. They must be given that assistance here before they go so that they are able to compete with other sporting bodies or other sports men and women in other countries. 
I am a very strong supporter of amateur boxing in Australia. I happen to be the Australian patron of amateur boxing; I happen to be the Queensland patron of amateur boxing. I had the opportunity recently of attending the Queensland amateur boxing titles in Rockhampton. 
I do not think  Senator Webster  need have any worries.  Mr Deputy President,  when I attended those titles 62 bouts were run over two nights and two days. Some of these young men came in old broken down motor cars. They had travelled from Mount Isa, from Cairns, from all parts of Queensland; all at their own expense. They had to pay accommodation expenses in Rockhampton. Something like 300 people- boxers, their trainers and their families- had come from everywhere. Not one bit of assistance did they get. That is not good enough. Naturally some of these boys would go to the Olympics, some of them would go to the Commonwalth Games, but they have to put up with hardship because we as a country do not do anything towards assisting them or making facilities available to them. I know that my own amateur boxing union executive in Brisbane is trying desperately to raise funds for a gymnasium for its boxers in Brisbane where for the last three or four weeks before going overseas these boxers can be trained and looked after in a central part of the State. I hope that here as least is an area where governments can lend some support. I have a reasonable knowledge of sport because I played a little sport in my day. 
Therefore I have a sympathy with and an understanding of the problems of participants. 
Again I refer to Canada. Canada finances its team from a national sports lottery. I do not see any reason, if the Government cannot afford to finance our team, why we could not have a lottery in Australia. It could be run along the same lines as the Golden Casket or Tattersalls or something like that. The proceeds could go into a national fund from which all sporting bodies could draw and be given assistance. The sporting bodies are not asking for all the money. They are prepared to work to raise some of the money themselves. But I believe that Australia as a nation also must do something to assist our sportsmen and sportswomen. Australia is a nation of sport lovers and I suppose one can say also that we like to take a gamble occasionally. We gamble on many things, such as horse races; in New South Wales people gamble on poker machines. Of course we do not have those things in Queensland. We do have greyhound and horse races and things like that. I feel sure that, if we had a lottery, people would support it. It would be one way of raising funds for our sporting bodies instead of having to call on the Treasury coffers. 
I am a smoker; so it is unfair to ask me. 
-They are, but if we had a lottery we could do away with that kind of thing. Sporting bodies receive funds not only from cigarette companies but also from wine and beer companies and all sorts of other things. By setting up a lottery to raise funds for sport, we would not need all this advertising connected with sport. If one is a great cricketer or footballer, naturally the cigarette companies will use one as a drawcard. I am told by my colleague here that smoking is not good for sportsmen or for anyone. That is by the way. 
I suppose that they would be foolish if they did because it has some ill effects on their health. If they want to be in top condition they would prefer not to smoke. A gallup poll some time ago showed that 70 per cent of Australians wanted government to give more money to sport. But still there has been no action in that area. Perhaps there can be an argument that it cannot be done at the moment because of the economic climate. Again I suggest the setting up of a lottery which would enable Australians to do a bit of gambling by taking a ticket in the lottery the proceeds of which would go towards financing sporting activities in Australia. All of our athletes who are fortunate enough to go overseas are overwhelmed by the facilities that are available. When I visited Canada with my colleague,  Senator Colston,  we saw a tremendous sporting complex there which would have cost in the vicinity of $200m. But we do not see such facilities for general sport in Australia. We see big football and cricket stadiums and things like that but they are money-making projects; they are not for amateur sport. The complex that we saw in Canada was for amateur sport. The facilities there were the best that one would find anywhere in the world. 
I have not made any investigations of that. Perhaps Australia could do it first. We could set an example to the rest of the world. We have done that in many areas before; why not as far as our sports are concerned? I cite as a prime example the case of our hockey team which won a silver medal at the Montreal Olympic Games in 1976. 1 believe that this was the result of the players and the hockey association spending thousands of dollars of their own money- I emphasise that- travelling around for a month in Europe to play on synthetic surfaces to get used to the surfaces that they would have to play on in Montreal. That is an example of the kind of opportunities that we should be providing for our sporting teams. We should be making it possible for them to travel to play sport against other countries so that when they go to the Olympic Games or to the Commonwealth Games they have had experience of playing on the kinds of fields or sporting facilities that they can expect at those games. 
Perhaps after we have the Commonwealth Games in Australia, we as a nation will wake up to the fact that we have to do more for our sporting teams. Most of our successful athletes are trained overseas at universities. What is lacking in our homeland? It is simply money. Our sportsmen are dedicated but we do not have the money to support them. Even in this time of economic restraint the concept of a lottery for this purpose is most acceptable and such a proposal would not burden any of our taxpayers. As I said earlier, we Australians like to have a bet on the gee gees or take a ticket in the Casket. I believe that even those who are not terribly concerned whether they win would still buy a ticket in a lottery set up specifically for sport because they would know that the money was going to a good cause- raising funds for our sporting teams. I ask the Government to give this question urgent attention and at least to look at it seriously to see  whether this can  be done. 
I return to the matter that I raised at the beginning of my speech. I ask the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security to look more closely at the matter that I raised in relation to brain damaged children and to make some investigations of the Australian Centre for Brain Injured Children. Perhaps we can do something to assist financially the families of children who have brain damage and who are seeking treatment. Every child in this country is entitled to the best that Australia can afford. We must look at this question and do something about it. I urge the Government at least to make some investigations and inquiries and then to devise some means whereby the Australian Centre for Brain Injured Children can receive some assistance. I will certainly visit the Centre again. I have a letter from the clinic director who has invited me to come back to the clinic to learn more about what it is doing and to get a better understanding of what it is all about. 1 will do that in the near future. I again urge both the Minister for Health, the  Hon.  Ralph Hunt, and the Minister for Social Security, the  Hon.  Margaret Guilfoyle, to have people from their departments look at this Centre to see what the Government can do for it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I draw the Minister's attention to a recent report that a United States agricultural laboratory has begun to mass produce an improved version of a little known seed innoculant called Azobac, which it claims will reduce the dependence of farmers on expensive nitrogen fertiliser by up to 20 per cent in the first year of use and increase crop yields by up to 50 per cent. Is the Minister aware of this product? Are these claims genuine? If so, has this product been investigated for use in our primary industry so as to cut down on the initial cost to the primary producer and perhaps reduce the cost of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I preface it by drawing the Minister's attention to the composition of the touring Australian Rugby League team and the inclusion of only three Queenslanders therein, despite the closeness of the competition in the recent interstate series. I realise that unfortunately the Minister is powerless to intervene to remedy the parochial method of selection. However, I call upon him in the interest of sport throughout Australia to register his Government's disapproval of this and other glaring examples of home town selection by the powerful sporting moguls in Sydney who seem to possess only one eye- and that eye is blue- and fail to recognise the performance of athletes in the less populous States. 
Will the Minister for Education confirm that he has received the final report on tertiary study leave? If he has, is it the intention of the Government to make this report public? If so, when will it be released by the Government? 
Because the Senate is debating the first reading of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill 1978 I would like to take the opportunity of speaking on a matter which has nothing really to do with apples or pears. Nevertheless, it is a matter that I believe is tremendously important. It concerns the controversy that is occurring in the Northern Territory at the moment over the Northern Land Council and the Ranger uranium mining agreement. I believe that the agreement was to be signed today but because of the controversy that has occurred the signing has been deferred. While I was  chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory I had the opportunity of travelling around the Northern Territory and meeting many of the tribal elders and many people within the Northern Territory, hearing evidence concerning the land rights legislation which was introduced in this chamber some time ago. As honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will know, when that Bill was introduced into this chamber controversy was occurring throughout the length and breadth of this nation. Many people were criticising the Government for introducing that Bill. People were saying that the Government was doing too much for the Aboriginal people; that it was dividing the Northern Territory. All sorts of other accusations such as that were being made. 
The Government was determined that that Bill would go through this chamber, that the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory would be given their land rights and that their claims to their traditional lands would be acceded to under that Bill. To do that the Government, in its wisdom or otherwise, felt that there was a need to set up land councils. As we know, two land councils were set up, the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council.  Senator Cavanagh,  who was with me on the Committee, and  Senator Chaney,  who is now a Minister in the Government, and a number of other honourable senators were in Darwin at the inaugural meeting of the Northern Land Council. There we met the traditional owners. We listened to them and heard their opinions on what they wanted. The first  chairman  of that Council was  Mr Silas  Roberts. Silas Roberts is an Aboriginal gentleman of the highest calibre. He is a very fine upstanding gentleman. He is a married man with a family and a man steeped in his own traditions and culture. He had the full support and confidence of the Aboriginal people with whom he was dealing under the land rights legislation. 
It seems to me that what is happening now happened to some extent to my friend Silas Roberts. Because of undue pressure from various quarters  Mr Roberts  felt that he could not carry on as  chairman  of the Northern Land Council. He resigned from it and another man was appointed to that job. The man who was appointed and who is the current  chairman  is  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu. He was elected by his own people to do the job as  chairman  of that Land Council. As we know, he is another fine upstanding Aboriginal gentleman who through his own efforts and his own initiative has got where he is today. He is probably one of the most articulate Aborigines in the whole of Australia today. He is one of the most prominent Aborigines in the whole of Australia today not only because he is  chairman  of the Northern Land Council but also because of the way he has conducted himself, the way he has endeavoured to bring about solutions to the problems of land rights and the way he has handled the problems of his people in the Northern Territory. He is a young man- I would say that he is not even 30 years of age yet- who has had a tremendous responsibility placed on him. Pressure from all quarters has come upon this young man. There has been pressure from the Friends of the Earth, conservationists, anti-uranium groups, the Australian Labor Party, the Northern Territory Government, the Federal Government- from all quarters. How the young man has stood up to all these pressures and accepted his responsibilities are things of which we as Australians, and particularly we in this Senate, should be very proud. 
I am very concerned, and I feel that every member of this chamber should be concerned. Who is trying to destroy this young man who has become the leader of Aborigines throughout this Commonwealth? He is now a figure to whom all Aborigines throughout this nation look. Aborigines in Queensland, members of the Queensland Northern Council, the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island and all the Aboriginal communities in Queensland are looking to young 
Galarrwuy because he has given leadership to Aborigines throughout this nation. He is someone we can now look up to. He has done a tremendous job, but somewhere, somehow I believe there is an undercurrent against him and people are trying to destroy and to bring discredit on this young man. It is the same old tactic that has been applied in this country since 1 788- divide and conquer. If these people destroy this young man's credibility then they will destroy the credibility of Aborigines in their fight for what I believe they are rightly and justly entitled to, and that is their land rights. 
The Government introduced into this chamber land rights legislation which was supported by all people. Some people may have had misgivings, particularly some on the Opposition side of this chamber. Even I had some little misgivings concerning that legislation. However the Government introduced the legislation and got it through this chamber. Embodied within that legislation is the right for Aboriginal people, when minerals are found on their land, to negotiate not only as to how the minerals are to be taken out but also in relation to royalties and other matters. 
This young man, Galarrwuy Yunupingu, has done so much and has followed the legislation right through in every sense of the word. He has been able to talk to his own people. I have sat with this young man in an office in Darwin surrounded by telephones, typists and other people working, solicitors and everybody else racing around, but I have also been able to sit with this young man in his own tribal area amongst his own tribal elders and see how he can go from one environment to another. He can be talking in his own language, steeped in his own culture, and then in a moment he can change right over and talk to the highest people in this nation. He is on first name terms with Prime Ministers,  Deputy  Prime Ministers, people in business and everybody else. He has been able to achieve something that very few other people from his background have been able to achieve. I believe that anything that we can say in praise of this young man is warranted. 
I come back to this question: Why are people trying to destroy the credibility of this young man, and who are they? I believe the answer is that they are trying to destroy the credibility of this young man because there are people who have found at last that here is a young man who is not pliable or manoeuvrable. They cannot manipulate him. He has found his feet and he is standing up for himself. So what do these people do? They try to destroy him. If they destroy him, whom do we put in his place? Do we replace him with someone more pliable? More pliable to whom? That is the question I ask. Should he be someone more pliable to the people who are allegedly his friends, people wanting to use him for their own political purposes? I do not want to canvass the rights or the wrongs of the mining and export of uranium, but should he be someone more pliable to those who want to prevent uranium mining in the Northern Territory and those who want to destroy the credibility of Aboriginal people by saying that we cannot negotiate with the Aboriginal people because they do not understand and therefore we have to take over control and show them what is good for them? 
It is the same old thing again. Someone says what we, the Aboriginal people, must do, how we must do it and what is good for us. Why can they not just for once listen and let us Aborigines say what is good for us. Let young Galarrwuy and his tribal elders say what is good for them, what they want to do and how they want things to happen in their communities. They are asking for protection for their sacred sites. They are asking that people leave them alone and let them work out their problems in their own way. I am afraid that this will not happen. 
I believe that we should be looking at this situation much more closely to determine whose idea it is to discredit and destroy one of the finest Australians in Australia today, a man who has done so much to bring about a solution to the problems in the Northern Territory and at the same time protect the rights of his people and preserve their culture, which is as rich as any culture in the world. I had the opportunity today to speak by telephone to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is in Darwin, and am happy to know that he is talking to Galarrwuy. The Minister is as concerned as I am because he also believes that there are some forces at work to destroy this young man. After speaking with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for the Aboriginal Affairs today, I believe that the Government will not let this happen; it will not let this young man be destroyed. Every person in this chamber has the responsibility to ensure that that does not happen. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware of the near impossibility of handicapped people, particularly those confined to wheelchairs, being able to use public telephones because of the width of the doors of the telephone boxes and the height at which the telephones are installed. Will the Minister give serious consideration to increasing the width of the doors and lowering the telephones, particularly those telephones at post offices and other places where there are a number of telephone boxes, so that handicapped people can at least have the use of these public facilities? 
-On 2 1 September, when speaking on the first reading of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill 1978, because it was the first reading of that Bill I took the opportunity of bringing to the attention of the Senate a matter that I felt  at  that time was, and which I still feel is, of grave importance. It concerned the problems occurring in the Northern Territory as regards the Northern Land Council and the agreement that was to be signed by the Council and the Government to allow the mining and export of uranium from the Ranger uranium mines in the Northern Territory. I was very concerned about what I felt was being done in relation to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. 
I do not intend to canvass all the matters that I raised on 2 1 September, but I want to reiterate my concern about what I still believe could be happening to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I indicated that I felt that some persons were endeavouring to discredit this young man, to destroy his credibility in relation to his position as  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I have seen this happen so often when Aboriginal leaders have raised their heads above the crowd. My experience in this regard over the years is that there always seems to be someone ready to discredit them and to prove that Aborigines are not capable of making decisions or of accepting responsibility. I have seen so many young Aboriginal men in particular and women as well who have lifted their heads above the crowd, have taken responsibility and have started to raise their voices on behalf of their own people. We find that because of the kinds of pressures that are brought to bear upon them, with people trying to manipulate them for their own political aims or whatever, they are forced to retreat from the positions they have held. This has also had the effect of preventing from contributing other Aboriginal people within the community who have something to contribute and who want to make a contribution. In other cases it has curtailed the contribution of other Aboriginal people. When they see what has happened to others who have tried to lead their own people, they withdraw from the scene and allow other people to take over. I know that this is what happens because it happened in my own State of Queensland. Hence we have non-Aboriginal people taking over the role of Aboriginal people, telling them what to do and preventing them from making their own decisions. This is what concerns me in relation to the situation in the Northern Territory. In particular, I am concerned about this young man for whom I believe we would all have a great respect and admiration. As I said on Thursday night, this young man has not yet reached the age of 30 years, but he has come forward and accepted responsibility. He has gained the confidence of his own people. He has gained the confidence of the elected members of that Council and he had gained the support and the confidence of the tribal elders, Because of some misunderstanding on this particular occasion, he has now been forced to go back to the elders. I understand from reports that within the next fortnight there will be a meeting of all the tribal elders responsible for the tribal lands which have been granted to them under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. Having taken back the agreement in order to allow proper interpretation and proper consultation with the tribal elders, the Council will meet again to discuss the whole matter. Then there will be a getting together of the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, who will speak on behalf of his people, and the representatives of the Government. 
It is worth noting that the concern of the 
Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the  Hon.  Ian Viner, was very much highlighted when the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs flew directly to Darwin to consult with the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council to get this whole matter cleared up. So there will be another round-table talk, as it were, and then perhaps we will see the signing of this agreement because by then the Aboriginal people, the tribal elders and the Land Council will be satisfied that the agreement will be in their best interests. All these people will make their own contributions. They will be looking at that agreement to make sure that it is in their best interests. The protection of their sacred sites and the protection of their environment and all the other matters that concern them will be agreed to under that agreement. 
Once again I give warning to the people in this chamber as well as elsewhere that when Aboriginal leaders do lift their heads above the crowd, it is our responsibility to make sure that they are not cut down by those who have their own particular axe to grind or who have their own particular political beliefs or ideologies or whatever. Let us not allow this to happen. Let us not allow the Aboriginal leaders who come forward to be manipulated by the people who have vested interests in one field or another. Let us ensure that they are making their own decisions. Let us ensure that the things they ask for are the things that they want and that they are not just mouthing someone else's ideas or ideologies. I close on that note but I issue a warning that we have a responsibility to ensure that Aboriginal leaders are given every assistance, every encouragement to come forward and put their points of view without being manipulated by other people. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, by stating that I was interested recently to read of the work of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in the field of health and nutrition in Australian communities. What CSIRO personnel are involved in this work? Could the Minister indicate the scope of this research? How are the operations funded? Does this research deal in any way with the Aboriginal community? 
-No doubt the Minister for Science is aware of a new device called the condensator supplementary carburettor which is being marketed in America for approximately $70 by Energy Concepts Limited. I understand that this device is designed to restore engine performance which automobiles lose as the result of pollution controls and is claimed to boost engine performance by 25 per cent and petrol mileage by some 10 per cent as well as reducing automobile emission by between 50 per cent and 90 per cent. I ask the Minister whether he and his Department have investigated this device and these claims. If so, does he consider that it should be installed in all Australian vehicles to reduce the drain on our energy resources? 
I am sorry that I was not in the chamber earlier, when  Senator Keeffe  started his tirade. It is a kind of unwritten law in this place that when an honourable senator is going to say something in the adjournment debate he pays those he may wish to take to task the courtesy of notifying them that he will be speaking and saying some things about them.  Senator Keeffe,  in his usual manner, did not see fit to proffer to me that kind of courtesy. Nonetheless, I forgive him. As people often say about we Aborigines, he is a victim of his circumstances and his environment. 
Tonight and on 10 and 12 October, as I saw from reading  Hansard,  Senator Keeffe  saw fit to mention me in this chamber in my absence through illness. Twice in one evening in this chamber I have witnessed the complete hypocrisy and duplicity of some members of the Labor Party. The sheer hypocrisy of them! They pretend to be the champions of the underdog and the Aborigines.  Senator Keeffe  stood here tonight and gave us a tirade on how he was so concerned for Aborigines and their rights. Twice in this chamber tonight I have heard Aborigines attacked by members of the Labor Party- firstly by  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Mulvihill  at an Estimates Committee meeting and later by  Senator Keeffe  who attacked me, a proud Aborigine, one of those whom he alleges to be one of the champions. That is hypocrisy of the highest- or lowest- order. 
On 28 September 1978 the Senate adjourned for a week's break. On 29 September I returned to my State of Queensland. On 30 September I visited Darwin in the Northern Territory on the invitation and heart rending plea of my very close and dear young friend, an Aborigine, Galarrwuy Yunupingu. He asked me to go to the Northern Territory because he wanted me to sit and talk with him about many things that were concerning him. One of the main things concerning him, in his own words to me in the quietness of his home, was what a number of people were trying to do to the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. He was ably supported,  Mr President,  in his condemnation and criticism of some members of the Labor Party by none other than the shadow Minister for Aboriginal affairs who sits in your gallery this evening. 
That is true. I was given a copy of a letter. I give all due credit to the person who wrote the letter for his feelings, understanding, sympathy and empathy with the Aboriginal people, particularly Galarrwuy Yunupingu. The letter says so. The first paragraph of that letter is very enlightening. It is more than enlightening; it is a condemnation of people like  Senator Keeffe.  I will read the first paragraph this evening because it has been read before. I would not have used the full letter myself; I would have used a paragraph. I certainly would not have named the author. The first paragraph states: 
I can understand your feeling that the ALP may be using Aborigines for their own vested interests. It is true that some people, most of them on the Labor side of politics- 
I emphasise the words 'most of them on the Labor side of polities'-  care more about stopping uranium mining or changing the Government in Darwin or Canberra than they do about Aborigines or land rights. 
What a condemnation that is by one of the colleagues of honourable senators opposite of a number of members of the Australian Labor Party. That is exactly what they are doing in the Northern Territory, led by none other than a man who was mentioned in the Senate tonight by  Senator Keeffe.  I refer to  Mr Bob  Collins. He is leading the confusion that is taking place in the Northern Territory at the moment. 
I answer  Senator Keeffe  and I dare him to call me a liar. I was invited to Darwin. I was not sent by any Minister or by any member of the Government. I went up there of my own free will. I went to Darwin because of my genuine heartfelt concern for what is happening to my people- people of my blood. These are people of my skin group, people of my toten and my bigum. Does the honourable senator understand what that word bigum means? Of course, he would not. He would not know what that means. These are people of my own bigum. I did not have the ticket bought for me by the Liberal Party of Australia. I did not have a ticket bought for me by the Government. I had that ticket on the aircraft paid for by the taxpayers of this country- my constituents in Queensland who gave me the right to move around my State and around this country to look into matters of concern to me and to this nation. What is happening to the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory is of concern to this nation. 

 Senator Keeffe accused me of being sent to Darwin by the Government. He said that I had no right to be at that meeting. I had every right in the world to be at that meeting, as did the four other Aboriginal observers who were invited to that meeting. I ask honourable senators to notice that I said 'four other Aboriginal observers'. There were a number of non-Aboriginals- a number of balanda, as the Aborigines would say in the Northern Territory, breaking their necks to get into that meeting. They were told quite firmly by the  chairman  of that meeting and by the members of the Northern Land Council that they were not welcome because they were balanda. In other words, they were white people. The members of the Council said to me: 'You are youlngoo like us. You are one of us. You can come in as an observer'. They said the same thing to the other four or five youlngoo We were invited in as observers. 
In my usual way, I walked in to the room very quietly and sat in a chair right at the back of the meeting. The  chairman  spoke to the councillors very quietly. He then came to me and said: Brother, you are important to us. You come up to the top table. You do not sit at the back. We want you at the top table '. They invited me to sit at the top table with the  chairman  and two other prominent members of the Council. The meeting started with the  chairman  reading out a document which was read by  Senator Keeffe  tonight and which is alleged to have come from that meeting. That is an absolute lie. That document was given to the people to read by members of the Labor Party prior to the meeting starting. The  chairman  read the first paragraph and threw it away. He said, 'We do not want that. That is from balanda. We youlngoo we make up our own minds. We talk about what we want to talk about, not that rubbish'. 
After that meeting, the same members of the Australian Labor Party issued that statement to the media as supposedly coming out of the meeting as the determination of the Council. That is untrue- it is not the determination of that Council at all. It is a lie. That document was prepared and handed around because I received a copy of it before the meeting started. It was not discussed and not even considered by the Council. It was thrown aside in disgust, and the members ofthe Council proceeded without any documents whatsoever. But after the meeting that document was mysteriously handed around to members of the media and represented as being the determination of that meeting. That is an absolute lie. 
Your fine friend,  Mr Bob  Collins. 
I can assure  Senator Keeffe  that he was not at the meeting but he was downstairs, in the precincts of the building in which the meeting was held. I can assure  Senator Keeffe  that he certainly was not at the meeting because he was not allowed into the meeting. That is why everyone is so unhappy. They are so unhappy because they were not allowed in to manipulate the meeting. The Aborigines said: You will not come in here. You will not be allowed to manipulate this meeting. We will sit. We will talk. We will determine what we are going to do '. 
-They got no one to manipulate them. They invited me to the meeting as an Aborigine. I had every right to be there as an Aborigine. If  Senator Keeffe  wants to question that then he should question it with the Northern Land Council. Let  Senator Keeffe  ask the Council members who has a right and who does not have a right to be at their meetings. They invited me and they accepted me as one of them.  Senator Keeffe  talks a lot of nonsense about me bing sent up there or my being a pimp. Does he know that a pimp is? If he knows what a pimp is he will not use that word in this building. A pimp is a person who sells women in prostitution. I have never done that in my life. If  Senator Keeffe  would like to use that word outside this building, then let him try it. If he has the guts let him say it outside. I will not take him to court. 
You did this evening. 
-Thank you,  Mr President. Senator Keeffe  claims that he did not use the word. If  Hansard  verifies that he did not use it, I will certainly apologise for the fact that I accused him of using it, but I will not apologise until I have read  Hansard.  If it is not in  Hansard  tomorrow, I will certainly apologise to him. I am sorry that this had to happen here this evening. It is the second occasion on which members of the Labor Party- I do not say the Labor Party as a whole because there are some very fine people in that party and I have no quarrel with themhave shown themselves to be hypocrites. There are members of the Labor Party who are certainly very hypocritical and they have shown their hypocrisy this evening on two separate occasions when two Aborigines were attacked at an Estimates Committee hearing in this chamber by those purporting to be the champions and supporters of Aborigines. They support Aborigines while Aborigines do not try to be their equals, do not try to determine their own future, and do not start to raise their heads above the crowd. This type of person cannot abide such developments and will attack viciously those Aborigines who try to equal them or even, on some occasions, better them. 
I categorically deny that I was asked, sent, cajoled or in any other way persuaded to go to the Northern Territory. As I said in the beginning, I went there because a young man asked me to go to discuss with him a number of issues that concerned him. The kinds of issues that concerned him were his role as Chairman of the Northern Land Council, the kind of criticism that he was receiving and Government attitudes. He wanted me to discuss with him the land rights Bill and many of its clauses because he was a little concerned about the steps that the Northern Land Council was taking. He was well aware of what was embodied in that legislation. He knew that, as always, the white man has the last say. The white man has the last say over Aboriginal land rights because the Government has the power to either put in an arbitrator or use the national interest clause. Galarrwuy was well aware of this. He wanted me to sit down and discuss these matters with him to confirm his understanding of the Bill and its implications. He felt that I, as a fellow Aborigine who is a member of this Parliament and who was present when this Bill was debated and passed through this Parliament, would have a little more understanding of the parliamentary procedures. He wanted me to sit and to talk with him. This I did willingly. 
On the Monday that I was there Galarrwuy did not attend the Council meeting.  His Deputy Chairman  was chairing it. I met the  Deputy Chairman  in another part of Darwin when a problem existed in relation to some of the itinerant tribal, traditional Aborigines who had come into Darwin and were living on some of the reserve lands around Darwin. The Darwin Corporation- the local council- was treating them rather shoddily and we organised for them to have a meeting with the Mayor of Darwin in order to get these problems sorted out. On both of these occasions I was with the  Deputy Chairman  who chaired that meeting. He asked me whether I would like to go around to the meeting. He said to me: 'I cannot tell you that you can come to the meeting and be present at the meeting until I get there, open the meeting and ask the members ofthe Council whether they will let other Aboriginal observers into the meeting'. That he did, and I stood outside the building. He then came out and said: 'Yes. There are other Aboriginal observers at the meeting and you are most welcome to come in'. That is how I came to be at that meeting. I did not go to Darwin in the first place to attend the meeting. It just happened to coincide with my visit there. Following my meeting with the  Deputy Chairman,  who chaired the meeting, I was asked by him to go along and I willingly did. As to some of the other matters mentioned, yes, the tape recorder was switched off. 
-While I was allowed to speak and ask questions, I was not allowed to cast a vote and, according to the Deputy Chairman, anything that I said was not to be recorded. Only what was said by the councillors was to be recorded to enable the preparation of minutes. They did not have anyone there who could take the minutes of the meeting. So they used a small tape recorder which could be taken back to their office and one of the typists would type up the transcript of the minutes of the meeting. 
I was not part of the meeting because I was not a councillor so anything that I had to say was not relevant to the minutes of that meeting. It was only on invitation from the  Chairman  that on occasions I, as well as other Aboriginal observers, made comments. But we were told quite categorically that we were observers, that we could speak only when we were invited to do so and that we could not vote. We were told that we were there strictly as observers. That was adhered to strictly throughout the whole meeting. On two occasions I spoke on the invitation of the  Chairman  who, without any prompting from me, switched off the tape recorder when he asked me to comment or to give some information on various points that were raised.  Mr President,  the accusations made by  Senator Keeffe  are nothing really to me. They are just a lot of fabrications by him. He has no knowledge of what transpired at that meeting; he was not there. Anything that he might say would be based on hearsay and would not be accepted at all. 

 -Mr President, I still maintain that all the accusations against me by  Senator Keeffe  are complete fabrications. They have no substance and they certainly are not true. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether he is aware that the Sony Corporation of Tokyo, Japan, has developed a sporting aid machine called the  videostrobe  and that it can play back all individual movements that make up a continuous motion, thereby enabling the pinpointing of any flaw in the action of an athlete? If so, Will the Minister endeavour to persuade his Government to provide such machines, which I understand will retail for about $34,000, to all major sporting bodies in the Commonwealth so as to assist our athletes who are at present lagging well behind the rest of the world in financial support? 
I am very disappointed that the Government has seen fit to introduce this measure. As we know, prior to this time pensions were adjusted half yearly but now we are told that they- and we will have to go out and tell this to the pensioners, the senior citizens of this country- will have their pensions adjusted only 12 -monthly. I believe that that will cause a great deal of hardship amongst the senior citizens of this country. They are the people who have contributed throughout their whole lifetimes to this country through working, many of them through raising families, through taxes and through their labours in the various areas. They have built this nation to what it is today. I believe that the Government is wrong in doing this. I am not able to support the Government in this issue. If the matter comes to a vote I will certainly not support the Government and I will show my disapproval by abstaining from voting. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the quality and tone of advertisements presently being shown on commercial television. I refer in particular to an advertisement which is being run by a wellknown electrical appliance manufacturer and which has biblical overtones. Whilst it may not be strictly sacrilegious in the true sense it is in extremely poor taste and would be offensive to Christian-thinking people. Could the Minister inform the Senate of the controls that exist to ensure the quality of advertising within this medium? 
I present the following petition from 235 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
Any your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act relating to the admissibility of confessions made by Aborigines and Islanders and related matters. 
I  direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and draw his attention to the visit yesterday to this Parliament by  His Excellency, Mr Walter  Scheel, and in particular to the fact that upon  His  Excellency's arrival, quite correctly, the national anthem of West Germany was played. However, to my surprise, this anthem was not followed by our national anthem. Will the Minister inform this chamber who was responsible for this oversight? If it was not an oversight, will the Minister ensure that in the future our anthem, of which we as Australians are extremely proud, is played on such official occasions? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable senators will recall that on 1 5 September 1976, I introduced this Bill into this chamber, and that as a result of the Parliament being prorogued, the Bill lapsed. Now I again present it in its original form without any amendment. It is sufficient to say that since that date a lot of water has passed under the bridge and to the shame of this nation, a lot more Aborigines and Islanders have gone to prison. Their only crime, in the majority of cases, is ignoranceingnorance of a judicial system which they do not understand. It is a judicial system which is based entirely on European values, customs and culture; and one which is heavily weighted against my people and my Islander brothers and sisters. Therefore, it is my belief, shared by countless thousands of caring white Australians, that this present imbalance within our society must not be permitted to continue. It must be excised, like some deadly cancer that is sapping the very life blood of my people. 
For the many years that I have been privileged to sit in this chamber, I have listened attentively, if somewhat cynically, to the many debates concerning my race. This cynicism has of late, I believe, been reinforced by events with which all honourable senators should be familiar and concerned. However, I now call upon honourable senators to do some soul searching, to exercise their minds, to put their fine words into some definite, direct action. This chamber has been deluged by noble words and sentiments which have hung heavily on my ears and then, sadly to say, like some hot air, have dritfed upwards, to be dissipated and blown away on the winds of indifference. Today I am issuing a challenge to all senators to put these thoughts and expressions of concern for the Aboriginal and island people into positive and effective action. 
Do we, as senators, have the necessary intestinal fortitude to initiate innovative and far reaching legislation, or are we to give truth to the fallacy that we are a chamber of stoic old men and women, deaf to the voice of the people, a mere rubber stamp of that other place? I look around and see youth and vitality on both sides of the chamber. I see the wisdom of years, and I pray to God that I also see men and women of principle: men and women of vision, men and women who are not the mere minions of government and bureaucracy, but men and women who are now prepared to stand up and be counted, and are in tune with the song of freedom that is presently resounding throughout this nation. I trust that I have gained the Senate 's attention, rattled a few skeletons in the closet and extracted some emotion from honourable senators. I do not care whether it be sympathy, resentment, or criticism, as long as it is some emotive force. For I believe that for far too long the welfare of my people has been treated with mere apathy within this chamber. 
Not long ago in this chamber, I echoed the plaintive plea of that great Aborigine and Australian, Albert Namatjira. They were words which embodied, I believe, his utter despair and disillusionment with the dominant white society and its judicial system. It was a cry which even today is applicable to my people and one which demands to be answered in this very chamber today. Those prophetic words were not delivered from the pulpit, or from any public forum, but from the very source itself- the steps of a white man's much vaunted hall of justice, after Namatjira had felt the cruel barbs of his white brother's brand of justice. Sadly, the position remains unchanged in this so-called enlightened era of so-call reform. The indigene still finds himself today an outcast and pariah in his own land, a land which was given him by Almighty God at Dreamtime, which is creation. 
I am aware that perhaps I have traversed this ground before, and although it needs to be reiterated time and time again, perhaps I can condense this with the words of two white scholars to whom my race will be eternally grateful. Firstly, I quote C. D. Rowley's  The Destruction of Aboriginal Society,  from the Australian National University Press 1970. At page 23 these words appear: 
What were left were not conquered tribes, but dispirited remnants lacking in the kind of leadership with which an administration might negotiate. Lacking even a place of their own, which from the European point of view, was an axiomatic basis for any kind of civilised or ordered life. 
Secondly, I quote Emeritus Professor W. E. H. Stanner 's  After the Dreaming,  from the 1968 Boyer Lectures. These words appear at page 46: 
In a hundred patterns they drifted into a vicious circle of poverty, dependence and acceptance of paternalism. Every act of paternalism deepened the poverty into pauperism and the dependence into inertia. The situation was selfperpetuating and self-reinforcing. 
If honourable member's choose to ignore this lone Aborigine 's words, dare they cast aside the words of these two men of learning? To further reinforce the need for the provisions of this Bill, I quote directly from  Aborigines, A Statement of Concern,  prepared by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, for the Catholic Bishops of Australia. I quote from page 14: 
The Law and the Police. Not only does our legal system reflect values and priorities alien to Aboriginal culture, but it has by and large sanctioned the dispossessions of Aboriginal people of their land and violence that accompanied it. Many laws discriminated against them. Indeed, the  Australian  Government was for a time unable to ratify the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination' of the United Nations because of the Queensland Aborigines ' and Torres Strait Islanders ' Acts. 
The law has offered little protection to Aborigines. Rarely have they sought justice through civil courts. In the criminal courts, they have been disadvantaged at  every  stage of the proceedings- the chances of being arrested, the nature of charges, the granting and the level of bail, having legal representation in court, the chances of conviction and the severity of sentence. 
The end result is that  Senator Bonner  has been able to claim that Aborigines are the most imprisoned people in the world. 
My claim, which is mentioned in the report, is still as valid today as it was then or when I first introduced the Bill. I would like to record some further figures which are now available. In 1974 Aborigines comprised between 6 per cent and 9 per cent of the prison population in New South Wales. Their rate of imprisonment was at least 1 7 times that of non-Aborigines. Each year from 1973 to 1975 magistrates courts in Western Australia sentenced more Aborigines than nonAborigines to imprisonment. Aborigines comprise 2.1 per cent of the population of that State. In July 1972 Aborigines made up 15.3 per cent of the total daily average prison population in South Australia and 5 1.33 per cent of the female prison population. Only 0.75 per cent of the State's population are Aborigine. 
To give some indication of the validity of the concensus of the objections, I ask leave to have a letter to the right honourable Malcolm Fraser, Prime Minister, from the Queensland Police Union of Employees, incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows: 269 Main Street. Kangaroo Point. 
Brisbane 4 1 69. 28 January 1977 
The Rt Hon. M. Fraser Esq., Prime Minister of Australia, Parliament House, Canberra 2600 
Dear  Sir, 
On behalf of the Queensland Police Union of Employees I bring to your notice details of Private Member's Bill as  proposed by  Senator Bonner  such Bill being entitled 'Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill 1976'. 
My members have at considerable length examined the contents of this Bill which seems to restrict alarmingly Police powers in the state of Queensland and would render virtually impossible the upholding of law and order amongst the coloured members of our community. 
An examination of statistics available to this Union indicates that in 1976 the present situation existed with respect to the population of coloured people in the various states of the Commonwealth of Australia. It will be seen that in each state the numbers of Aborigines are recorded together with the percentage of the total population added to which are figures in respect to the Torres Strait Islanders who also may be found amongst our coloured community. 
The following table illustrates the figures: 

<graphic href="079232197810264_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

We earnestly request that you as Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Parliament should ensure that this Bill does not become Law until every aspect of the Bill is thoroughly and conscientiously examined and that the continuation of justice to all should be viewed with paramount importance. 
Far too frequently in recent years Queenslanders have been described as being racist and oppressive of the Aborigine community, a statement which is completely lacking in fact and totally and completely unacceptable. 
Over a long period of time the Queensland Police Union has had considerable dealings with the coloured community of this State and we have always found that the Law as it is presently framed particularly with respect to the 'Aborigine questioning' leaves nothing to be desired in guaranteeing the community of Queensland a proper and complete law enforcement program. 
I am taking the liberty of forwarding a copy of this communication to each of your Cabinet colleagues, to all members of Cabinet in Queensland and further to all members of the Police Federation of Australia who will be discussing this problem at their Federation's Conference in Adelaide from 13 March onwards. 
We would appreciate receiving advice from you that you will delay if possible the passage of this Bill until a complete inquiry may be carried out in respect of the contents of this letter. 
Your faithfully, Queensland Police Union of Employees, 
M.J. CALLAGHAN, 
General Secretary 
I particularly draw honourable senators attention to the sixth paragraph which reads: 
Far too frequently in recent years, Queenslanders have been described as being racist and oppressive of the Aboriginal community, a statement which is completely lacking in fact, and totally and completely unacceptable. 
I feel that perhaps it would have been more correct to attribute that statement as reflecting the opinion of the Queensland Government, and we all know that it is not truly representative of all Queenslanders. Honourable senators will also note that this letter was written prior to the Criminal Law Inquiry held in Queensland, and this Inquiry did in fact vindicate my argument that my people and the Islanders need additional protection in the investigatory process. The report of this inquiry, which boasted as its members a senior judge of the Supreme Court, a senior counsel and a retired police inspector, has been ignored and is no doubt gathering dust in some State archive- along with other such reports which dare to challenge the omnipotence of the Queensland Government. This report also recommended the use of tape recorders, but this proposal was rubbished as being too complex for the police to operate, and readily subject to falsification. 
The report made the following recommendations in relation to Aborigines: 
Tape recording must be used when interrogating such persons for an indictable offence; failure to perform this duty will render any evidence so obtained completely inadmissible; 
Administrative directives should be drawn up clearly indicating to the police the manner in which such persons should be treated. 
On the one hand the Government praises its enforcement officers, and then as quickly denigrates their competence, intelligence and integrity. As an example of its double standards, the Government has given the officers the right to operate breath analysing equipment which, to my way of thinking, is as equally difficult to operate and more open to abuse than a tape recorder. 
Another major objection to the use of tape recorders and compliance with other provisions of this Bill was that such would be expensive and time consuming. We are dealing with the rights of the individual and matters such as expense and inconvenience should never be given consideration when the liberty and good name of the individual is at stake. I, for one, respect the integrity and intelligence of the Queensland police force and would give to its members the duty to use tape recording devices. Another example of duplicity is that the Queensland Government can readily reel off figures for its Aboriginal and 
Islander population, but cannot give similar figures on their incarceration. I have been told that to differentiate in this matter would be racist and discriminatory. I leave it to honourable senators to guess the real motive behind the Government's reticence to keep these statistics. 
I ask honourable Senators again to read my second reading speech delivered in this Chamber on 1 5 September 1976 which, together with what I have said today, reinforces the urgency of this Bill becoming law at the earliest possible time. I submit that we have the power to enact this legislation- in fact I believe we have the duty to do so. The power was given to the Commonwealth in the referendum in 1967 by 89 per cent of the Australian voting population. Therefore, I demand, on behalf of Aboriginal Australians, that honourable senators be fearless and forthright and move to enact this legislation, and not let us have another Dunkirk, as occurred at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
I leave honourable senators to ponder a statement made by an unknown Aborigine man: 
The Bible says God made us in his own image and likeness, but the white man tries to make us in his image and likeness. 
For this reason alone, I commend the Bill to the Senate and submit that it merits universal support of all Senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Evans)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. When can we expect a statement from the Prime Minister, on behalf of his Government, condemning President Idi Amin of Uganda for his atrocities perpetrated against the people of Tanzania or can we take it that the Government condones the actions of this person who can be considered to be only a vicious animal? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether he is aware of an article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 18 November 1978 under the headline 'Ignoring the Aborigines' and which, in part, stated: 
There appears to be some doubt about whether Aborigines exist, or ever have existed, in Western Australia. 
This doubt emerges from a bulky publicity kit being put out by the Western Australian Government for the 150th anniversary of the State next year. 
A passage from one section in the glossy kit, which is titled  WAY '79 ', says ' In the history of civilisation 1 50 years is but a tiny speck in time. Yet it was only 1 50 years ago that man came to stay', and a bit further on, 'The land that lay dormant for a million years has changed '. 
I further ask: Will the Minister be kind enough to inform the Western Australian Government that learned anthropologists have proven conclusively that we, the Aborigines, have been in Australia for 50,000 years at least and that, considering that Western Australia is part of Australia, it is logical to assume that Aborigines existed in that State for 50,000 years? 
-by leave- It was on a motion that I moved that this matter was referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for investigation and report. I am very happy to note now that the report has been brought down. We will certainly be studying this report very closely. As  Senator Evans  has already said, what the Queensland Government has done to the people of Mornington Island and Aurukun has been a sorry matter. It now appears that the Committee has been able to spell out for the Commonwealth exactly what powers it has and what it can do in the future when a government of any State attempts to do what the Queensland Government has attempted to do to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
I am quite sure that the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island will be able to rest a little more easily now that they know that the Committee has investigated this matter and brought in a report. We know that the Commonwealth can override the Queensland Government and give the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and Aboriginal people throughput Australia what they have been seeking for a long time and what I am happy to say is the policy of the present Government, namely, selfdetermination and the self-management of their own affairs in their own communities. This can be done. I hope that the Government will exercise its power as pointed out by the Committee, because I am quite certain that the legislation brought in by the Queensland Government which is supposed to provide self-management of local government will not work because the Queensland Government will not allow it to work. That Queensland Government wants to continue to have control of the people. Therefore I believe that the Government finally will have to exercise its power and acquire the lands and let the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and the other Aboriginal people in the west of Queensland and other parts of Australia have what they want. 
Debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the National Acoustic Laboratory services to hearing impaired children on Aboriginal settlements in Queensland are severely hindered for want of funds? Is it true that NAL personnel do not visit Aboriginal settlements for the purpose of testing hearing problems in deaf children? Is it further true that hearing aids are posted by the NAL to schools on Aboriginal settlements and that these aids are passed on to the children by school authorities without any NAL staff being on hand to ensure that the correct aid is given to a particular child and without any proper training being given by NAL staff to the school authorities? 
-I wish to join the other speakers in expressions of condolence on the death of former  Senator Ellis  Lawrie. As  Senator Webster  has said already, he was not only a gentleman but also a gentle man. He was a quiet man, a man whose friendship knew no bounds. If one made a friend of Ellis Lawrie one certainly had a friend for life. He was warmhearted and generous in many ways. I served with Ellis here both in government and in opposition and I believe that he contributed very much to the Parliament as well as being a very worthwhile representative of the State of Queensland. I knew both him and his wife, Margaret. To her and her family I wish to express my deepest sympathies and my hope that, whilst they have lost him in this life, his memory will be a great comfort to them and to those who knew and loved him. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I draw the Minister's attention to the name presently given by her Department to the benefit payable to the senior citizens of this nation; that is, the age pension. I submit that this name has discriminatory overtones and smacks of charity rather than the just entitlement to which a person has contributed during a lifetime of endeavour. Therefore, I ask the Minister to consider an alternative name which would remove this charitable syndrome and any suggestion of discrimination. Perhaps the Minister would consider the name 'retirement benefit' as an alternative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 26 September 1978: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware of the near impossibility of handicapped people, particularly those confined to wheelchairs, being able to use public telephones because of the width of the doors of the telephone boxes and the height at which the telephones are installed. Will the Minister give serious consideration to increasing the width of the doors and lowering the telephones, particularly those telephones at post offices and other places where there are a number of telephone boxes, so that handicapped people can at least have the use of these public facilities? 
I present the following petition from 59 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to the 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectations and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 percent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer the Minister to a report which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  on 21 February 1979 which reads: 
Queensland Aborigines could have a referendum to determine whether they wanted to be under State or Federal Government control, the Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement Minister (  Mr Porter)  said yesterday. 
But he doubted whether aborigines would want such a poll.  Mr Porter  said that if such a referendum were held, he had no doubt the States' aborigines would opt for Queensland control.  His  comments followed a decision at the Australian Labor Party conference in Rockhampton to hand over management to the Federal Government if Labor came to power in Queensland. 
Will the Minister seek financial assistance to enable such a referendum to take place? Being conscious of the fact that the Minister prefers negotiation to confrontation, I ask: Will he confer with the Queensland Government about the holding of a referendum to settle this matter once and for all? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs by stating that I learned just recently that the Government intends to spend a considerable amount of money developing the tourist potential and facilities around Ayers Rock in the Northern Territory. Will he as Minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs, ensure that the traditional owners of that land, who have made claims to certain areas of it, will be protected and properly and fully consulted as to any development that takes place there, in particular in the area of their sacred sites? 
I support a great deal of what  Senator Melzer  has said this evening.  (Quorum formed).  I was not a member of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare during its inquiry into drug abuse, but I joined the Committee in time to see the film to which  Senator Melzer  referred. I can only say that I was appalled at the film and the way it promoted the drinking of wine. Sex was involved. All sorts of vicious things happened. People were being mugged. It was certainly not the type of film I would want to be shown to adults, let along children. I was appalled also during the questioning of the witnesses who came before the Committee in relation to the film. I recall that during my early days in the Parliament there was a debate concerning the banning of advertising of cigarettes. That was a successful debate and legislation was introduced to ban the advertising of cigarettes. Cigarettes, according to doctors- one of my colleagues,  Senator Baume,  has often said this- are bad for the health. They can cause various diseases. 
I believe that over-indulgence in alcohol has caused more deaths in this country than the smoking of cigarettes. Yet we allow the advertising of all kinds of alcoholic beverages. I make it quite clear that I am no teetotaller, I am no wowser. By the same token I do not believe in the advertising of alcohol, particularly wine, in the fashion in which it is being done. It is suggested to young people that to be with it today they have to drink white wine with one kind of food and red wine with another kind of food. The film showed a young man and woman sitting together drinking wine. It suggested that this would lead to better things later in the evening. Those kinds of films should not be shown without due respect and care for those of tender years. This kind of advertising is wrong. Something must be done about it. As I said, I certainly support the contribution made by  Senator Melzer.  The Government must look at this matter closely. If necessary we should ban this kind of advertising of alcoholic beverages particularly wine. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that the wives of servicemen who accompany their husbands to overseas postings are not permitted to vote in Federal elections whilst their service personnel spouses are so entitled? Does the Minister agree that this is blatant discrimination of a sexist nature to disfranchise these Australian citizens? 
Can he assure me that this anomaly will be corrected so that these women will be given their democratic rights to cast their votes in all future elections? 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen an article appearing in today's  Canberra Times  headlined: 'Aboriginal land claims "thwarted" by NT move'? The article states: 
The Northern Territory Government has thwarted any Aboriginal land claims to areas around Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs by gazetting large tracts of' land around the urban centres for future expansion. 
Another part of the article states: 
The Government gazetted 4,350 square kilometres of land around Darwin whose city limits now extend 1 15 kilometres south to the Adelaide River. 
Is the Minister taking any steps in relation to this matter to protect the rights of the Aboriginal people who have made a number of claims and are still to make a number of claims? What steps is the Government taking to ratify this action by the Northern Territory Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is the lease between the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Northern Land Council for the land designated as the proposed Kakadu National Park due to expire on 30 April 1979? If so, and if the proposed Kakadu National Park has not yet been declared as such, will the Minister give his assurance that such designated land will forthwith be declared a national park under the terms of the Ranger agreement and in accordance with the Fox report? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There is no point of order. I think the question is in order. 
-by leave- I wish to say a few words today on behalf of my friend, the late former  Senator Eric  Bessell. When Eric was elected to this place and I first met him, after talking to him for a short time I realised that I had met a man who was capable of great warmth and who would be capable of giving of himself not only to those with whom he worked but also to this Parliament. He loved his State of Tasmania and worked very hard for it. He also loved this great nation in a way that one could always admire. Over the short period that he was a senator he and I became very, very close friends, as did my wife, with both Eric and his wife, Rita. I was a guest in his home in Tasmania and he showed me around his State with a great sense of pride. The friendship that developed between us will remain with me for the rest of my life as something of which I can be very proud. 
I believe that he contributed well to the debates in this Parliament. He fought consistently for the things that were important to his State, to himself and to the people of Tasmania and I believe that the State of Tasmania benefited from his contributions in this chamber. So, I am moved at this time to repeat the words of Leon J. Richardson: 
My friend, 
Although the world should grudge thee its acclaim, Thou an for me, and ever shalt be, Great. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to differences between Dillingham Mining Co. of Australia and Murphyores Incorporated Pty Ltd and the Government with respect to compensation following the Government's decision to stop sand mining on Fraser Island in Queensland. Because of the very substantial difference between the Government's offer of $4m and Dillingham-Murphyores claim for $23m, will the Government consider appointing an outside arbitrator to determine fair and just compensation to Dillingham-Murphyores as a result of the Government's decision? 
-The Senate is debating the Poultry industry Levy Amendment Bill 1979. As it is the first reading of a money Bill senators have an opportunity to talk about things that are not directly related to the Bill. I want to take the opportunity of bringing to the attention of this Parliament a matter that is of great concern to me and to many people in my State of Queensland. Time and again I have advocated in this Senate- particularly over the last two years- that there should be Federal Government intervention in my state of Queensland into the affairs of the Aboriginal community. Over the last two years a number of things have happened that has proven, perhaps not to the Government but to the whole of the Australian community, that there is a need for the Government to accept the responsibility given to it by the 1967 referendum and to intervene in the affairs of the Aboriginal community in Queensland. I refer to the matters of Aurukun and Mornington Island which I need not elaborate on at this stage because they have been canvassed in this Parliament a number of times, not only by people in this chamber but also by people in the other place, through the media and in other ways. Shocking things have happened to the Aboriginal people of those two communities. 
We see now the high-handedness and the bureaucratic actions of the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs and his Department in dealing with the affairs of Aboriginal people in another part of Queensland. I refer to the elections that have been held recently at Palm Island off the coast of Queensland, near Townsville. I lived on Palm Island for 1 5 years or more. I raised a family there. I have five sons and two foster daughters who were born there and I know many of the people there. I will mention some of their names today. I have even nursed some of them. When the elections for the Palm Island Aboriginal Council were called, they were run under the auspices of the Queensland Government. In the same way as local government is the creation of the States, the Aboriginal councils for the Aboriginal communities are a kind of creation of the States- the State of Queensland in this instance. 
The elections were held and I have in my hands information to prove that one-third of the total voting population of that Aboriginal community was denied a vote by the authorities who are in charge and who, to use the kind of words used by  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, are in control of the Aboriginal people of that community. There is no doubt that they are in control. The Aboriginal councils do not have self-management of or self-determination in their communities. The situation created by  Mr Porter  is a farce. A more arrogant man could not be found, and he should not have the responsibility for the lives of some 50,000 Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in Queensland. 
I want to quote from an article which appeared in the  Messagestick.  The Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs would say that this is a red rag newspaper, or a radical newspaper or a left wing newspaper. He would give it some name like that. But it is a paper that is published by Aboriginal and Island people, to tell their Aboriginal and Island brothers and sisters throughout this nation of many things relating to their affairs. On the front page of the  Messagestick,  under the heading 'P.I. elections', it is stated: 
On Friday 23rd February 1979, Palm Island held the DAIA run community Council elections. 
At least five (5) nominees were not allowed to run because the DAIA said they were 'non-residents'. Every one of these nominees were born on Palm Island and grew up there, although they had left Palm Island for a while, the last one to move back to Palm Island was at least three and a half (3) years ago. They all have a wife and family on the Island and their own home and job. They are leaders of the community and are in the front running of sports and other community activities. 
A person who wants to vote in a State election must have his name on the electoral roll at least three months before the election is held. But this group of people have been in residence for3 years and they are told that they do not have resident status.The article goes on to state: 
At least one-third of the voting population were not allowed to vote because once again the DAIA stated 'you are a non-resident'. All of these people have been back on Palm Island for at least three (3) years and some of these 'nonresidents' have never left Palm Island. 
In at least two cases: I . The wife of a family- 
It was actually the wife and mother of a familywas allowed to vote and the husband was not allowed to vote ( husband, wife and children moved back to Palms . . . 
This happened on the same day. The  Messagestick  article continues: 
The wife of one of the candidates- 
This is one of the candidates who was accepted as such- was not allowed to vote because she was classed as a non-resident'. 
But she is living on the Island with her husband and she returned to the Island with her husband at the same time. The most important point is that people have been disfranchised. My second eldest son, Tom, was born on Palm Island.  His  wife, Olive, was born on Palm Island. We left Palm Island in 1960. My son returned to the Island in 1977.  His  wife left Palm Island in 1963 as a single girl. She married my son and they have a family of six children. They both returned with their six children in 1977to live on Palm Island. Olive was allowed to vote but Tom was denied a vote because he did not have resident status. 
-That appears to be the case. 
I will outline what they have tried to do. The  Messagestick  article goes on to state: 
DAIA states in the 1971 Aborigines Act to become a resident you have to fill out a residency form and it has to be passed by the Council and then sent to Brisbane to be approved. Ninety pet cent of the people classed as 'nonresidents' on Palm Island have filled out at least one of these forms, in most cases people on Palm Island have filled out three or four of these forms in the Council office. They have been put on a shelf and have been forgotten about. Even the last  Chairman  has implied to most of these people they are residents. 
We talk about self-management and about the rights and the freedom of people. That is what democracy is supposed to be all about. But this group of people must go through all these procedures and, having gone through them, they are denied a vote by the manager of the Island, the manager who represents the Director of the Queensland Department who, in turn, represents the Minister. We are told that the Aboriginal councils are running these communities and that they are responsible for the by-laws and everything else in the communities. But what do we find when a supposedly democratic election is held? When we were talking about the issues involved at Aurukun and Mornington Island, the Premier of my State and the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs stood up and said: 'The Aboriginal people run these communities. We do not tell them what to do'. Here is a classic example of their telling the people what to do. As I said earlier, because this article appears in the  Messagestick  the people in authority in Queensland will say: 'Oh, yes; but that is only written up in a red rag paper'. They will refer to that newspaper by the types of names that I mentioned earlier. 
I have also received a petition from Palm Island. It is signed- shades of  Senator Bonner-  by P. J. Bonner- Patrick James Bonner. He has prepared this petition which has been signed by 59 residents of the Island who are fully qualified to vote in the normal sense because they are voting in both State and Federal elections. However, they are not allowed to vote in an election that is very near and dear to them because it involves the running their own little community. There are 59 names on this petition which raises a number of points. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
I thank the Senate. Some of these names on the petition are the names of people whom I knew as children and who have now grown up. I have known them since they were born. I have nursed them. I know each and every one of them. I know their mothers and their fathers and their grandmothers and their grandfathers. I shall mention at random some of these names on the petition. There is young Spencer Curley.  His  father was Tommy Curley. Tommy ran one of the boats on the island way back when I was on the island and even prior to that. Tommy raised a large family and the name of one of his sons appears on the petition. Then there is Francis Pickles. He is the son of my first wife's sister. I nursed the kid. I was there when Francis was born. Francis Brown is another young man who, as far back as I can remember, has lived on the island. 
Young Gabriel Thimble is another boy who was born on the island, but who moved away when his family also moved away. His family wanted to go back to the island because they could not hack it in the broader white community. They wanted to go back to live on their own island and to try to help to work and to develop that island. But they could not do so because of the over-lording bureaucratic control governing their lives, controls that told them what to do all the time and did not allow them to exercise their own thinking or to do the things that they wanted to do. They wanted to elect to their council people whom they felt were going to be able to do the things that they wanted to do for their community- people with whom they could work. They wanted the same situation that we have in the broader electorate in State and Federal elections: A person votes for the party he wants and he votes for the candidate who, he thinks, is going to do the best. But these people have been denied a vote. 
I do not want to criticise those who have won their seats. I believe that they have won those seats because the Department has not been fair to other residents of the community. But I do not want to criticise those who have been elected; they are not responsible for this state of affairs. The Queensland Government is responsible, through its Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, for what I can only call cheating on one-third of the residents of that community on Palm Island. 
-I am quite certain that other candidates would have been successful if that one-third of the residents had been allowed to vote. One young man was beaten by four votes. My son was a candidate in the elections and he was beaten by six votes. There are 59 signatories to this petition so we are certain that at least 59 people were disfranchised. It is no good anyone saying that the signatures are fakes because one only has to examine the handwriting to find that these are indeed the signatures of those people. I am quite certain that any handwriting expert who examined the signatures would say that they are bona fide signatures. This petition has been sent to the Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in Queensland. A copy was sent to the Queensland Premier and a copy was sent to me. I believe that the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  also has a copy of the petition. But what will be said is: 'Oh, yes, but they are only a mob of red raggers. Look! Bonner's son is involved. It is only sour grapes'. There will not be an investigation. I say again as 1 have said so many times before in this chamber: Unless this present Commonwealth Government has the intestinal fortitude to take on the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and 
Islander Advancement and see that the Aboriginal people are treated fairly and squarely, as they have every right to be, this kind of thing will continue and there will be pussy-footing and side-stepping. 
I know that the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has told me that he does not want confrontation because nothing is achieved by that: He wants consultation. But how can one consult with people who will not consult, people who will not stand by their words, people who will continue to ride roughshod over other people and who will deny people their human rights; rights to do the things that they want to do within the framework of the laws of this land. The people of Palm Island do not want to break the law: They want to live within the law. But, goodness gracious me, when this kind of thing happens it is time the country knew about it and the people in this Parliament knew about it. I am disappointed that the Minister has not been in the chamber to hear what I had to say. I certainly hope that he will read  Hansard  tomorrow and will in some way try to do something about this shocking thing that has happened to the people of Palm Island. 
These people have no other recourse. Where else can they go? They have come to me and asked me to bring this matter before the Parliament and to try to persuade the Government to intervene again on behalf of the people. There is also a petition sent down by the people of Yarrabah. So far I have heard nothing as to what has been done about it. I hope that something is being done. But until the Federal Government intervenes in the affairs of the Aboriginal people in Queensland, they will be continually beaten and defeated and will be put down so much that they will give up hope completely on Palm Island, in which case I do not know what will be the outcome. But I hope that the Government will- I say that it should- do something on behalf of the Aboriginal people in my State of Queensland. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development by directing attention to a report published this week in a Canberra review that Government fuel experts believed that Australia faced a serious energy shortage- I take it that the reference was to an oil shortage- after 30 June. In view of the grave implications which this shortage could have for my State of Queensland and more especially its remote areas, will the Minister comment on the accuracy of the claims? If he cannot, will he undertake to make a statement urgently to the Parliament setting out the true position? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that in this nation there are many invalid pensioners whose condition is a result of their being chronic asthmatics, that the more seriously ill of these pensioners are required on medical advice to install air-conditioning units in their homes so as to ease their condition and improve their quality of life, and that such air-conditioners are required to operate non-stop, thereby resulting in increased power charges which are causing financial hardship to these people. Therefore, I ask the Minister whether there is any provision which would provide financial assistance in these cases. If not, will the Minister look into the question of providing such assistance, thereby alleviating the full emotional discomfort of financial worries? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I remind the Minister of the interest and debate that were engendered over the last 12 months in this chamber over the two communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I ask: Will the Minister inform the Senate of the results of the Aurukun and Mornington Island local government elections held on 3 1 March this year. Will the Minister assure the Senate that he, through his Department, will keep an interest in the progress of these councils over the next three years? 
I second the amendment moved by my friend and colleague  Senator Puplick.  It is rather ironical that a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who, generally speaking, was regarded by Aboriginals as a disaster, should move such a motion today. I want to speak to the issue before the Senate this evening. I say quite categorically that I support the amendment that has been proposed by my friend and colleague  Senator Puplick  because I have had the opportunity of sitting with him, with another very close friend and colleague,  Senator Missen,  and with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  We have discussed the issues which are before us this evening very extensively. I sat in this chamber yesterday for several hours and listened to a debate that was brought on by the Opposition concerning a matter in the Northern Territory. It is rather fascinating for an Aborigine to sit in this chamber and listen to a whole group of so-called white experts speak on Aborigines. It is really fascinating for an Aborigine to listen to nonAboriginal people talking about Aboriginal affairs with so-called knowledge and understanding. It is something that not only fascinates me but also gives me a sense of frustration. 
The honourable senator who is interjecting at the moment would know no more about Aborigines than the man in the moon because he is not an Aborigine. He has never lived as a Aborigine. He has never had the feelings of an Aborigine. Yet he stands up in this chamber and spouts off as if he knows everything about Aborigines. He looks at things through an entirely different set of values and understanding. He looks at the Aboriginal question through the eyes of a white man. How in the name of God can he stand up here and through a white man's eyes view and understand the things that mean something to Aborigines? He cannot. There is not a hope in Hades that he can. 

 - Senator Keeffe sits over there and spouts about Aboriginal affairs as though he were an Aborigine. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by congratulating the airport security forces for their efficient handling of the attempted hijacking yesterday, though I am sure that it gives them no more comfort than it does me that a person had to die to prove the efficiency of those forces. I ask the Minister: Will the Government give serious consideration to imposing security checks on people entering airports in Australia in addition to the security checks carried out in airport lounges? 
Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that the Wide Bay-Burnett Conservation Council in Queensland has had its grant, made under the grants to voluntary conservation organisations scheme, slashed from $5,000 to $2,850? Can the Minister give the Senate some information as to why this drastic cut has been made? If he cannot, considering that the Wide Bay-Burnett Conservation Council represents the areas of Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gympie and has been doing a tremendous job in that area, will he have something done to restore the grant to the original figure of $5,000 rather than have the drastic cut from $5,000 to $2,850 take place? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What controls exist to ensure that advertising on commercial televisions is of a high standard. 
I  present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; that the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; that the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; that weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; that the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; that the Australian Government request the State governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 295 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost ofgoods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This evening I want to take the opportunity presented by the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79, which allows an honourable senator to speak on matters other than those contained in the Bill, to speak about a matter of grave concern to me, first and foremost as a member of the Senate, as a Queenslander, as an Australian and, perhaps more particularly, as an Aborigine. I want to speak tonight about the controversy in our nation concerning speculation about whether there will be drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. This matter is of concern not only to me but also, I am sure, to many Australians, if not all Australians. I am sure that it is now concerning many people throughout the world. I find it rather difficult to understand the Government's attitude when we find that even within its ranks there is a difference of opinion between the two Ministers who have some responsibility in this area, namely, the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  If one has read the newspapers one will have found that some time last week there was quite a to-do concerning a disagreement between these two responsible Ministers. This must be not only confusing but also of great concern to the people of this country. 
I want to quote this evening the comments of a number of people. First and foremost I would like to quote some words from  Dr Frank  Talbot, the Director of Environmental Studies at Macquarie University and a former Director of the Australian Museum, who has studied the marine life of the Great Barrier Reef for some 15 years. He says that the Great Barrier Reef is the most complex ecological system in the whole world. He says also that larvae floats for scores and perhaps hundreds of miles between the islands and that any oil spillage on one part of the reef could affect the whole reef system. In itself that is a matter about which we all should be concerned. In writing about this matter in today's Brisbane  Telegraph  under a rather large headline, one of our leading journalists in Queensland, Joseph Glascott, said that oil exploration could deliver the Great Barrier Reef a death blow. He went on to say- and I know this to be correct from my own experience- that coral and oil certainly do not mix. In the  Sunday Sun  of 20 May another leading Queensland journalist, Ken Blanch, asked: What is meant by the 
Barrier Reef? None of the statements I have heard from either the two Ministers or from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has told us exactly what is meant by the Great Barrier Reef. 
Let us consider the Great Barrier Reef. It has some 2,500 islands. It has 60 to 70 sand cays. It extends for some 1,900 kilometres down the coast of Queensland. It covers about 2,700 square kilometres, which is an area the size of England. I believe that we have had an example of the damage an oil spillage can do to the Barrier Reef. We can remember that on 4 March 1970 the oil tanker  The Oceanic Grandeur  ran  aground on the reef. The oil spillage caused concern to Australians at that time and caused a great deal of damage. Apart from the damage it did to the coral, to the fish and to other parts of the Barrier Reef, it had a devastating effect on the growing of pearl shells in the Torres Strait. Although I am told that the Prime Minister today has made a statement that there will be no drilling on the Reef, 1 ask: Just exactly what does that mean? Does it mean drilling actually on the coral? Is he talking about drilling through the coral? Is he talking about drilling alongside the coral or off the edge of the reef. What studies have been made? Who has carried out the studies? What are the tides going to do in those areas? What is the prevailing wind? 
I am not concerned with money. I am concerned with preserving the Great Barrier Reef. Let me say loud and clear that neither Queenslanders nor Australians own the Barrier Reef. It is owned by the world. It is one of the wonders of the world. Because we live in Australia and because the reef lies off the coast of one of our States we are only its custodians. We are not the owners of the reef. I believe that that is very important. If we own something, we can sell it, give it away, damage it or do with it what we will, but when we have the responsibility of being the custodians of one of the wonders of the world we have a far greater responsibility to ensure that nothing is done that may damage or interfere in any way with that tremendous wonder. 
I am not concerned with what the Queensland Government is doing. I am concerned with who has the responsibility for the preservation of that wonder of the world. That responsibility should and must remain with the Commonwealth Government or the Federal 
Government, whichever we like to call it. Before I entered this Senate legislation was introduced into the Parliament to give to the Federal Government responsibility for waters from the low water mark to the area of exploitation or what at that time was termed the continental shelf. I believe that the fact that we are responsible for that area must be uppermost in all our minds. I want to hear a statement which assures not only Australians but also the whole world that no drilling will take place until maybe some time in the future when technology can assure us with absolute certainty that if we drill anywhere around, near, or on the Great Barrier Reef there will be no possibility of an oil spillage taking place or of any damage being done to our reef. 
I make a plea to all honourable senators and to all members of the House of Representatives that they ensure that no drilling on that reef is undertaken- that we do not give any power or permission, to mining companies, exploration companies, the Queensland Government, or anyone else for that matter, to drill on the reef. I say that because I, as one of the indigenous people of this country, have seen the devastation, the exploitation, the damage and the destruction which has been done to many of the things which are part of my heritage. I say to all honourable senators here tonight: 'Let us not damage what is now our mutual heritage- Aborigine and nonAborigine. You have destroyed much of my heritage, much of the indigenous peoples' heritage. But, for God's sake, let us not now damage or destroy that which is jointly our heritage, namely, the Great Barrier Reef'. Money will be to no avail if we damage any part of that reef. 
I know that we need to find more energy supplies. Oil is needed. But sometimes I wonder whether we are not spending our money in the wrong way. I am told that it will cost millions and millions of dollars to explore and to drill to find oil in those areas. Why are we not putting that kind of money into finding other sources of energy? Other sources of energy can be found. There is a need for money to be put into finding them. What are we doing in that area? What is the Government doing to try- to find other sources of energy? Let us put our money into that area instead of looking towards drilling for oil, with a chance of destroying something which is far more important to us as a nation and to the world than just finding oil. Oil is needed but there are other sources of energy which 1 believe that, even to this date, we have not explored sufficiently. 
My plea tonight is, as I have said before, that until appropriate technology is developed or scientists or someone else can assure us that no damage will be caused to the reef, we should not drill for oil in that area. As long as I have the opportunity to be a member of this Senate, I will not support any move towards giving permission for exploration or drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. I make that statement quite clearly. I will go to any length to prevent such exploration or drilling from happening. I hope that there are others in this chamber- I am sure there are- who will support me in this. I do not care what the consequences to myself will be. Until we can be assured that there is no possibility of any damage being done to the Great Barrier Reef, I say to the governments concerned, whether it be the Australian Government, the Queensland Government or whatever other government might be involved: 'Hands off the Great Barrier Reef. 
Will the Minister for Science and the Environment, on behalf of the Government, make a statement that no drilling will take place on the Great Barrier Reef being the area from the most southern point of the Barrier Reef to the most northern point of the Barrier Reef, which is covered by the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, in order to allay the fears of many Australians and many people throughout the world of what could happen to the Barrier Reef if drilling were permitted in the region? 
-The Senate is debating an urgency motion moved by  Senator Ryan.  Having sat here all this time and having listened to the Opposition speakers in this debate, I can only say how pathetic their speeches were. Not one of them asked for any clarification of the situation. All they did was talk about what a satellite and communication meant.  Senator Ryan  argued against herself. Firstly, she said that because of the small number of people in remote areas the Parliament would have to look at the cost involved, implying that if there were not sufficient people and if the cost of a service were too great we should not provide it. In the same breath, she said that large corporations would welcome the provision of a service for people in remote areas because they could make large profits from it. If there are not sufficient people to warrant giving them that kind of communication facility in the first place, how could large corporations make large profits out of providing a service for such a small number of people? The types of arguments put up were rather pathetic. 
Then we heard  Senator Button  say in part of his speech that the Government was putting a satellite in the sky, but for whom he knew not. If  Senator Button  and  Senator Ryan  would come down from their ivory towers and go out to the remote parts of this vast continent and sit and listen and talk with the people out there who have little or no communication facilities at all, they would know for whom the Government is trying to do something. The Government has gone to great lengths to try, to the best of its ability, to provide adequate communication facilities. Certainly it has taken into account the economics involved because it is handling taxpayer's funds. Towards the end of the last year the Government established a task force which had specific terms of reference requiring it to investigate and evaluate the social, economic, technical, policy and other issues associated with the establishment and operation of an Australian national communications satellite system. The Government is moving in the right direction. It is doing something. It wants to receive an input from all areas into what it is trying to do. Conferences and all sorts of meetings have been held. As we were told earlier, even  Senator Ryan  has attended those conferences. The National Communications Satellite System Task Force was required also to study overseas experience in those areas and to assess the satellite proposal presented to the Government by Television Corporation Ltd. To say that the Government is not doing anything in that regard is quite untrue. It is a misrepresentation of what the Government is endeavouring to do. 
I can tell the Senate and the two honourable senators opposite to whom I referred, particularly  Senator Button,  for whom the satellite is required because only last week I was out in remote parts of Queensland- places such as Charleville, Longreach, Alpha, Jericho, Barcaldine, Roma and Mitchell. They are not the most remote places in Australia, but they are part of my State and of our continent. People there do not have the kind of communications facilities which  Senator Ryan  has. When she goes home tonight she will have the choice of two, three, maybe four channels on her television set. She can pick up a telephone and ring wherever she likes. She can switch on a radio set and probably have a choice of five, six, or maybe seven radio stations. People who live in remote parts of Australia, particularly in areas such as in Cape York Peninsula or in the Gulf Country in my State of Queensland, receive their only radio communication from Papua New Guinea. Except on odd occasions, perhaps late in the evening when the people might be able to pick up broadcasts from Radio Australia, those people do not receive any broadcasts from Australia. That is the situation about which the Government is concerned and is trying to improve. I certainly support everything that the Government is trying to do for the people in the remote parts, not only of my State but also of other States and the Northern Territory. I think of areas such as the Kimberleys and other areas in the remote north of Western Australia, through which I have travelled and in which I have met with people and sat with and listened to them. I suggest that that is what some Opposition honourable senators should do instead of coming in here and moving pious motions such as the one we are debating today. 
Honourable senators opposite did not seek any clarification of the situation from the Minister. They just went on with a lot of rhetoric. It is fortunate that they were not speaking in a debate on a Bill because, had they been doing so, one of us on this side of the chamber would have had to attempt to bring their remarks back to matters contained within the Bill being debated. Certainly honourable senators opposite in their speeches did not keep within the matter of the motion which one of them moved today. I am certainly conscious of the need for a satellite or for better communication facilities. However, there are still some honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who would remember the airy fairy schemes of the three years from 1972 to 1975, into which money was poured without those schemes being properly investigated and researched, until the coffers of the Treasury were drained dry. This Government will not do that. It will ensure that when money is devoted to this area of communications, for the people of Australia, it will be spent wisely and in the best interests of those whom we are here to serve. That is what this Government is all about. It is the kind of government that I support. I certainly do not want to see a repetition of the stupid schemes, and public waste, that I saw in the disastrous three years in office of the people who now have the audacity to stand up and criticise this Government, which is doing the right thing, in this field in particular. 
I shall not continue to debate this question because I believe that  Senator Chaney,  representing the Minister for Post anc! Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  and my colleague,  Senator Collard,  have answered all the points that have been raised on the other side of the chamber. I wish merely to reinforce what my colleagues have said. I certainly would not support the motion before the Senate, which should be rejected out of hand. Accordingly, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to a media release issued by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs on 30 October 1978, reference No. 78/141, and, in particular, to paragraph 8 of that release which reads in part: 'Thirdly, oil companies would be prohibited from themselves retailing petroleum through direct sales sites.' Would the Minister please advise the Senate whether any legislation has been enacted to enforce this prohibition? If not, will he give consideration to doing so? 
Is the Minister for Education aware of claims by the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation,  Mr Van  Davy, that the Government's education policy bears no relationship to the needs of schools, that it will add to unemployment among teachers and other education personnel, and will reduce the capacity of schools to respond to the social pressures placed on them by youth unemployment? Are these claims true? Further, is it true, as alleged by  Mr Davy,  that grants made to independent schools in the last two years have meant that the biggest increases have gone to the socalled wealthy schools. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I preface my question by saying that the Minister will no doubt be aware that the Prices Justification Tribunal gave the right to oil companies to put a surcharge on fuel in 44 gallon drums. The surcharge represents approximately $4 a drum which, particularly in the outback areas in States such as Queensland, represents to the consumer an increase of over 9c a gallon. Will the Government do something to assist the people of the outback, particularly in Queensland, to whom this extra cost of fuel will be a great burden? 
I would not have entered this debate, but I feel I must because I have had the opportunity of visiting some of the refugee camps and of speaking to the people there. 
In November last year I visited the Philippines and Thailand. I visited the refugee camps and I spoke to the people there. I cannot agree with  Senator Georges  's contention that those people are not fleeing. They are not fleeing from the kinds of things that we in this country understand; they are fleeing from something that is worse than death. 
-Of course they are. It is no good  Senator Georges  saying that they are not. I have spoken to those people. I have met with them in their camps. I have sat down and talked with them. I have fed their children. I can show honourable senators photographs of me sitting in the camps and talking with the Vietnamese people who have come from those places. It is no good the Opposition saying that those people are not fleeing. They are fleeing from something which is worse than death. They would not take the chances they are taking if that were not so. They are taking chances on boats which are not fit even for carrying sheep or cattle. I happened to be at one of the refugee camps in the Philippines when a boat arrived with 62 people on board. I would not have put 62 animals on it. On four occasions those people had been accosted by pirates of the sea. They were fleeing from something which is worse than death. 
It is no good the Opposition saying that the present Vietnamese regime is treating those people in a proper and compassionate way. It is not. Those people are intelligent people. They are people who could make a great contribution to our country or to any other country to which they want to go. Australia will be lacking if we do not accept those people into our country and give them a chance to rehabilitate, to reassess and to make their lives anew in this country, where we have full and plenty for all people. It is wrong to say that those people are not fleeing from the communist regime in their country. Of course they are. To say otherwise is stupid. My colleague on the other side of the chamber is blowing in the wind when he says that those people are not fleeing from that regime. They are intelligent people, people who are prepared to and capable of making a contribution to any country which is prepared to take them and to give them a chance to start their lives anew. 
I was at a camp in Laim Sing in the Philippines. When I saw a boat come in and saw the people on it I talked and listened to them. It is a pity that some senators opposite do not listen to people who are fleeing from what they believe to be a life that is worse than death under the communist regimes which exist at the moment in Vietnam, Kampuchea and other such places. Those people are not fleeing from those countries because of their own ideas; they are fleeing because of the regimes which exist in those countries and the lifestyle which is imposed on them. Let us be realistic about this matter. Fortunately, we live in a country in which we have freedom of speech and expression, which people in those countries do not have. I say to you,  Mr Chairman,  that Australia has a very grave obligation to take in those people and to give them a chance, which they do not have in the countries from which they are fleeing. 

 Senator Georges said that the fact that we do not give support to Vietnam is a lot of nonsense. Why should we give support to Vietnam, which is a communist country with a communist regime? We do not believe in communism. I thank God that we do not. We will not support the communist regime of Vietnam, but we will support the people who are fleeing from it. I hope and pray that this country will be prepared to take those people who are fleeing from such a regime in their country. They might not be Vietnamese people in the true sense of the word; they are  Chinese  people. But they are decent people. They are people who are prepared to work and to do their best.  Senator Georges  can shake his head, wipe his head and do whatever he likes. 
Oh no, we are not going to give  Senator Georges  a chance again. He had his chance and he muffed it. He wants to support the communist regime which exists in Vietnam. We are not prepared to support that regime. What we are prepared to do is to assist the people who are fleeing from it. I congratulate the 
Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  for showing a compassionate understanding of the problems of the people who are fleeing from that kind of regime in Vietnam. I support him and I will continue to do so because I know what the feelings of those people are, what they understand and the kind of life that they are leading. They are running away from something which, thank God, honourable senators and I have never experienced. When honourable senators opposite have experienced that kind of thing perhaps they will have an understanding of why those people are fleeing their country and looking for a place of refuge- a place where they can reassess their position and readjust. I hope that we in Australia will have compassion and understanding for those people- a kind of understanding and feeling which honourable senators opposite have never known. I know because I have felt those feelings. 

 - Senator McLaren can say Ah' if he wants. He has never known that kind of feeling anyway. He has never known what it is to be oppressed and deprived. Of course he would not know what it is like. But I do.  Senator McLaren  has never known what it is like to live in a blacks camp on the banks of creeks. But the people who are fleeing those countries know what it means to be oppressed and deprived. I have a feeling for those people. I hope that the people of this country will open their hearts and minds. I as an Aborigine have a real feeling for those people. 
Honourable senators opposite talk about the  boat people '. Most of their ancestors were boat people. Governor Phillip certainly did not have a jumbo jet to come out to this country in; he came out in a boat. Most of the ancestors of honourable senators opposite came out in a boat. They should not denigrate the people who are coming here in boats now. They might be jumping the queue but they are desperate. They are fleeing from something which the white people of this country have never known because they have been the conquerors of this country. Those people are coming here in an attempt to find a place of refuge. I believe that we as decent people have a Christian responsibility to give those people refuge from a situation which honourable senators opposite have never known. 
Of course they are denying that. They are saying that we should give help to Vietnam. What in the name of God will that do? It will keep Vietnam's present regime going while those people are fleeing and looking for a refuge where they can enjoy the freedom which honourable senators opposite enjoy. I hope and I pray that Australians will be big enough to continue to provide that refuge to the people who are fleeing from Vietnam- from something which they believe and I believe is a fate worse than death. 
I find it ironical that questions have been raised in relation to this matter. It seems ironical that when a project such as this is being carried out which could create employment and provide other advantages for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders there is a great deal of questioning on its validity and whether it will be a success. It is creating employment for a number of Torres Strait Islanders and, in some cases, Aborigines. A number of other projects are going on in the community which seem to go without question. Tonight we are questioning a project which is creating employment for a number of people. I am at a loss to understand why the Opposition, particularly  Senator Georges,  seems to question this type of project. It is creating employment for a number of people in an area where there is no other employment. It could be a viable proposition. When the investigation is carried out we will probably find that it is a viable proposition that will create employment and a business enterprise for a number of people in the Torres Strait Islands and northern Queensland. 
It seems to me that we are questioning something which could be a viable proposition for a minority group within our community. Although a number of other projects are going on, no one seems to question those. But when it comes to Aborigines or Torres Strait Islanders, we start to question in this place the whys and the wherefores. The Government is trying to do something in this area. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been studying this matter for a considerable time. Certainly some money is being spent on this project, but the ultimate and long term consideration should be what is in the best interests of the people who live in those areas where there are very few opportunities for people to become independent and to have a viable proposition that they can carry on. As far as I am concerned, despite the fact that a great deal of the taxpayers' money may be ploughed into this project, in the long term, the ultimate aim must be- 
-The ultimate aim of the Department and of the Government is to provide a viable project for these people in those areas. I think we should be giving our unqualified support to the kind of thing that the Government is trying to do. I compliment the Minister who is handling this area of responsibility. I think  Senator Georges  should hang his head in shame. He is trying to denigrate something that could be a viable proposition for the Torres Strait Island people and people in the northern part of Queensland. 

 - Senator George's speech just shows his complete misunderstanding of what turtle farming is all about. He does not understand what it is all about. He has never lived in the areas where turtle farming is carried out, so he could not possibly understand. After turtles lay their eggs on the beaches of the coast only one per cent of the total eggs laid survive.  Senator Georges  does not understand that. Turtles can lay between 200 and 300 eggs at a time. When those eggs hatch the baby turtles try to get to the water. On the way many of them are taken by seagulls and many of them are taken in the water. As I said, only one per cent of the total eggs laid survive. 
Under this scheme turtles are taken by the people and put into these hatcheries. They are looked after. They are taken care of. They grow to a certain size and then they are released into the waters. This is the kind of thing that  Senator Georges  does not seem to understand. This project is creating employment and ultimately it will also create a food source for the people who live in the area. It could become a viable proposition because the people could make money from selling turtle meat to the rest of Australia and to the rest of the world. 
-Of course they could and  Senator Georges  knows it. He just does not want to admit it. This project will create employment and an opportunity for the people, in those areas to engage in a viable proposition. It is no good  Senator Georges  sitting there smirking and carrying on like that. He does not understand what is going on. He has never lived in the area. He would not know what was going on there. I have lived there. I know what the whole story is about. 
-No, but I have lived in that area. That is something which  Senator Georges  would not understand. I have hunted in those sorts of areas. I have hunted for turtles. I know what it is like to hunt for turtles and to be able to cut up those turtles and take them home to the people on the island.  Senator Georges  would not know about that, but I do. Turtles are becoming scarce because nature is not allowing the turtle population to develop. Under this scheme they will be allowed to develop.  Senator Georges  said tonight that to have that scheme is wrong. I can only say that he is wrong because under that scheme we are doing two things: Firstly, we are saving the turtle population; secondly, we are creating employment for a number of people in the Torres Strait islands who otherwise would not be employed. If that is costing us a few dollars, what the heck? After all, what have those people got? They have nothing because  Senator Georges  and his kind have taken everything away from them. 

 - Senator Georges should not say 'oh', because that is true and he knows it. The islanders are entitled to receive what we are doing for them. 
I present the following petition from five citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems: 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act: 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways: 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs by informing him that I received a telegram yesterday from the Aboriginal Community Council at Yarrabah, complaining that the Minister had ignored its request for certain information. If the claim is true, will the Minister give urgent attention to answering the questions raised by the Yarrabah Community Council? 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: In view of the widespread concern expressed and the large number of petitions presented to the Senate in relation to the metric system of measurement, will the Minister now seriously consider the points raised in those petitions? 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I draw his attention to a recent Press statement attributed to the  Hon.  Charles Porter, Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland, which states that some 120 Aboriginal people from Lake Nash in the Northern Territory had crossed the Queensland border and were camped in appalling conditions on the outskirts of Camooweal. I ask the Minister whether this report is correct. I also refer the Minister to a further statement alleged to have been made by  Mr Porter  in the same release wherein certain allegations were made about the resources of his Department to provide adequate housing for Aborigines in Queensland being diminished due to the Federal Government diverting funds away from his Department. Will the Minister clarify the present position with regard to the funding of Aboriginal affairs in Queensland? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the recent horrendous bombings by an extreme fanatical and lunatic terrorist group which cost the lives of Earl Mountbatten of Burma and immediate members of his family, as well as the lives of 19 British soldiers, and also in view of a general upsurge in similar violent actions by this and other similar terrorist elements throughout the world, will the Minister inform this chamber as to the present position with regard to the training of the Australian antiterrorist squad? Could he also provide information on other action which is being taken or contemplated by the Government to protect the lives of important public figures, and the lives of all Australians from similar outrages? 
I  present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people: 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act bc repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught, together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health inform the Senate what response has been made by the Government to the Ralph committee report which was tabled recently in Parliament? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I draw his attention to the Life. Be in It' television advertisements which are being shown nationally on all television channels and, in particular, to the portion of the lyric which states: 'Australians came from everywhere'. 1 point out that at no stage in the lyric or in the visual presentation are the original Australians- my race- considered worthy of a mention. I ask the Minister: Is this another example of our long and inglorious history of discrimination against my people? Can the Minister assure this chamber that that slight against my race- being considered not worthy of recognition as Australians- will be rectified immediately? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. A recent publication of the Minister's Department which provided background notes on Aboriginal infant mortality stated 'Reliable figures are not available from other States', the exception being the Northern Territory. In view of this statement, will the Minister consider requesting the appropriate State Ministers to implement a system in their respective States whereby detailed statistics will be compiled in relation to Aboriginal infant mortality in order that a much broader view of the recognised areas of neglect and cause may be established? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to a question asked yesterday by  Mr Tom  McVeigh in another place and alleging discrimination against Vietnamese workers by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia in Brisbane. Can the Minister inform the Senate of what steps he can take under the Racial Discrimination Act to protect these workers against such discrimination? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to a recent report of the Department of Transportation in the United States which showed that 65 per cent of American cars and 25 per cent of imported cars tested would not protect the front seat passenger from fatal injuries at a speed of 60 kilometres an hour and the subsequent recommendation of the head of this department and the head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that a rating system be introduced which would allow consumers to assess at a glance a particular vehicle's measure of safety protection in the event of a crash. In view of the mounting road toll in the nation and the needless waste of human life, could the Minister give consideration to a similar scheme of safety rating being introduced into Australia? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the 25c Australian Christmas 1979 postage stamp. Is the Minister aware that this stamp displays, among other national flags, the Yugoslavian flag with the red star? Is it a fact that the present Yugoslavian Government does not believe in Christianity and the Christian Christmas, allegedly because to these people Christmas is not a holy day? Is the Minister aware that the depicting of this flag on an Australian stamp, particularly a Christmas stamp, could be offensive to those Yugoslavs who now live in Australia and to those many millions of Christians in this country? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer the Minister to a statement made by the Honourable John McLeay in the other place on 10 May 1979 when he was dealing with the extension of the free issue of the Australian national flag and in particular to the following words: 
The national flag is our symbol of national unity. As such the Government is concerned to encourage the flying of the national flag as widely as possible. The proper and dignified use of the national flag can only encourage national consciousness. 
I advise the Minister that I requested an Australian flag and cassette recording of the national anthem for the Ipswich College of Technical and Further Education on 10 August last. I was informed by the Department of Administrative Services by letter dated 19 October that these were not issued to tertiary institutions. Therefore, I request the Minister to include such institutions within the eligibility criteria for free issue and thereby encourage national consciousness, unity and pride in the thousands of young Australians who attend these tertiary institutions. 
-Just in case the interjection that I made when  Senator Georges  was speaking has been misunderstood, I make it quite clear that I have no objection whatsoever to the voluntary organisations providing assistance to people who are in need. I support those organisations. I think that I am on record as having done so because of my involvement with World Vision of Australia. 

 - Senator Georges has had his say; he should let me have mine. When  Senator Georges  spoke, he Whinged about the 25c subsidy. What he forgot to say was that the people who are going to the voluntary organisations for assistance in the first instance have received their social security entitlements. They have used their entitlement as they have thought fit. How they use it is their business. But if they have used it and they go somewhere for some extra assistance, for goodness sake, they should be satisfied with what assistance they get because they have already used their entitlement from the Government- from the taxpayers of this country- because they are unemployed. I have no quarrel with that at all. If a person is genuinely unemployed, I believe that this nation has a responsibility to make sure that that person is given some assistance while he is unemployed, until he is in full employment again. I have no quarrel with that whatsoever. 

 Senator Georges had the audacity to say that I would not know about this. Is that so? With my background, sure I know. From my travels throughout the world, looking at what is happening in underprivileged countries, all I can say is that we live in a very, very lucky country. We live in a very wonderful country in which at least we can get social security benefits. That is something a lot of people in this world cannot get. Some people are starving to the point of death. People should be grateful for what they have and should count their blessings that they live in a country such as ours where they can at least go along and get social security. That cannot be done in some other countries. If people use social security benefits wilfully and wastefully it is their own fault; it is not the fault of the Government. If people use social security benefits wilfully and wastefully and then go to a voluntary organisation and get only 25c that is just too jolly bad. 
I support voluntary organisations. I always have and I always will. But my goodness, once people have received their social security payments, as they are entitled to do, they should be grateful for what they get afterwards. That is the point I made when I interjected while  Senator Georges  was speaking. 
Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that MFC Survival Ltd of mid Glamorgan, South Wales, in the United Kingdom, has developed a portable decontamination station that can be erected at the scene of an accident within minutes? As exposure to nuclear radiation toxic chemicals and biological agents requires fast action and as this unit provides this essential treatment, will the Minister's Department, if it has not already done so, investigate and evaluate this potential life-saving unit? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to an article which appeared in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  of 4 November, wherein it is alleged that the widow of a deceased Australian war hero, Warrant Officer Ray Simpson, V.C., D.C.M., is presently living in impoverished circumstances in Japan due to the fact that the Department of Veterans' Affairs has determined that her husband's death was not war caused. The article further alleges that Warrant Officer Simpson's war medals are at present with the Australian Consul in Japan. I ask the Minister: In view of this man's meritorious services to his Queen and country in World War II, Korea, the Malaysian emergency, and Vietnam, will he reconsider this matter? However, if it is finally established that Warrant Officer Simpson's cause of death cannot be war related, in view of this man's outstanding gallantry and unparalleled military career, will the Minister consider granting an ex gratia payment or pension to the widow, Shoko Simpson, as a mark of respect and of this nation's gratitude to this gallant son of Australia? Further, will the Government give immediate consideration to obtaining Warrant Officer Simpson's medals and having them placed in the Australian War Memorial alongside his photograph and citation? 
Tonight I bring up a matter that I brought to the attention of the Australian people a little over four years ago. This evening I want to speak about the situation which now exists and which has existed for some considerable time in East Timor. In this chamber a number of honourable senators have made speeches in several debates concerning this small island and its small number of people. Speeches on this subject have been made by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. It has not been a political debate. It has been a humanitarian debate on a number of occasions. On 26 September 1975 I had the opportunity to visit that small and sad country in company with two of my Federal colleagues,  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt and  Mr Ken  Fry from the other place. On my return to 
Australia I endeavoured, to the best of my ability, to bring the matter to the attention of the then Prime Minister. I do not want to make this a political debate, but I am going to say some harsh things about the previous Government and the present Government. 
Recently I read in the  Courier-Mail  an article on this matter attributed to the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden.  It seems passing strange to me that  Mr Hayden,  through the local newspaper in Ipswich, took me to task because I was bringing to the attention of the Australian people the fact that the Prime Minister of the day was not prepared to listen to me when I sought an interview with him to convey to him the messages that I had brought back from the people of East Timor to the Australian Government, is now supporting the kinds of th' lgs that I was asking for at that time. He is doing so in a political fashion by condemning the present Government's so-called inaction in relation to East Timor. According to this article in the  CourierMail,  Mr Hayden  called on the Government to impress upon the Indonesians the public interest and sympathy in Australia for the people of East Timor. The article stated: 
He said he planned to raise the matter with Indonesia's Ambassador to Australia as soon as possible. 
A great many people in Australia want to know with certainty how bad is the situation in East Timor, what we can do to alleviate it, and how quickly',  Mr Hayden  said. 
That is certainly a different attitude from that which  Mr Hayden  adopted while he was in government in 1975. 
-The Labor Government knew more than most of us did at the time because, as I understand it, the Prime Minister at the time,  Mr Whitlam,  was alleged to have said to  President  Suharto of Indonesia: 'Do it, but do it quickly'. He certainly did it quickly. If we look at the editorial headed 'Decolonisation fails in Timor' in the  Courier-Mail  of Monday, 8 December 1 975 we will see that it states: 
Yesterday's events in East Timor are profoundly disturbing; certainly there is cause for deep concern about the way Indonesia has behaved. 
The Indonesian invasion is really the culmination of the failure of a decolonisation program. 
Whatever the cause or reasons, it is to be deeply regretted that East Timor has been turned into a battlefield. 
It is understandable that Indonesia, which is touchy about any leftist political activity in its region, should be particularly concerned about the direction East Timor has taken. 
Indonesia shares a land border with East Timor, making it the nation's closest neighbour. 
One of the unfortunate aspects of the failure of the East Timor decolonisation from the Portuguese empire is the lack of neighbourhood initiatives in trying to reach a peaceful solution. 
Australia deserves equal blame in this respect, despite the fact that for the last four weeks the caretaker Government has not been able to take any new foreign affairs initiatives. There was not much diplomatic action by the Whitlam Government before it was dismissed. 
But silence speaks loudly, and Australia 's silence may long be remembered among some of our neighbours in the Asian region. 
Australia should support the principle of self determination in East Timor while trying not to endanger our relationships with Indonesia. 
Once the situation settles down in East Timor there will be a vital need for aid. 
As the island's largest and richest neighbour, Australia should not skimp in doing whatever is needed for the people of East Timor. 
Some time after my return from East Timor I was able to take part in a debate which took place when my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  moved a motion for the setting up of a select committee on East Timor. My colleague  Senator Missen  moved an amendment to the motion which I totally supported. During my speech on that occasion I said a number of relevant things which ought to be re-read into  Hansard  this evening before I deal with other matters that I want to mention. When referring to my speaking to the people of East Timor, during that debate I said:  . . they took me aside, spoke to me and asked me to do a number of things. I listened to what they had to say. They asked me to go back to Australia and ask the Australian Government and the Australian people to give them the kind of assistance that I have already outlined. A number of people, and one person in particular, have said to me that I am naive in foreign affairs matters and that I do not understand them. That may well be so. But there is one thing I do know: That is people and how to communicate with them. 1 was able to do that quite effectively at the time with the people in East Timor. I went on to say that one could not ask for anything fairer than what the people there told me about the kind of help they were asking for and how it should be distributed. They said that they wanted humanitarian help. They said they wanted someone to go there and assist them to sort out their problems. They asked that Australia send a delegation to bring together the three groups, Apodeti, Democratic Union of Timor- UDTand Fretilin. They wanted Australia, as their nearest friendly neighbour, to send a delegation to bring together these three groups of people so that they could sit down and work out their problems peacefully, sensibily and rationally. They also asked whether Australia would be prepared to help them with the problems they were having over seven or eight months when the crops were not producing as well as they could and whether we could send food, medicines, clothing and things like that to help the people. I am afraid that on that occasion we really failed them dismally. I believe that unless we do something now we will continue to fail them. It is interesting to note that in that debate I read from an article which appeared in the  Queensland Times  on 29 September 1975. It stated: 
The Australian Government's apparent lack of interest in the situation in Portuguese Timor has puzzled other people in addition to  Senator Neville  Bonner. 
The  Senator revealed  at the weekend that he had been given the 'brush-ofT by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  when he attempted to deliver a message from the Fretilin leaders in Portuguese Timor. 

 Senator Bonner went to Timor with an Australian delegation to assess the situation there and he returned with first-hand information. 
Both my colleagues who accompanied me did also. I can assure you,  Mr President,  that it give me no comfort whatsoever, nor I am sure does it give  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt any comfort whatsoever- as a matter of fact, I am sure that it affects him emotionally as much as it does me- to stand here and say: 'I told you so'. Unfortunately, we say that at the expense of so many very lovely and wonderful people whom we met there. I know that probably some of them are not still in East Timor. One day last week the  Courier-Mail  carried the plea: 'Help plea as Indonesians admit famine'. The Indonesian people finally are admitting what is happening in East Timor. The article reads: 
Indonesia yesterday admitted there was widespread starvation in the former Portuguese colony of East Timor and appealed for foreign aid. 
At long last, the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Mochtar,  is saying that the situation in East Timor might be worse than it is in war-ravaged Kampuchea. What an admission, after what the Indonesian people did to the East Timorese people. The article continues: 
The Indonesian Red Cross and two international relief organisations have already started emergency operations to save the lives of 300,000 people in the territory, which became an Indonesian province in 1 976 after an eight-month civil war. 
Today people in East Timor are dying of starvation, dying because they cannot get the kind of medical treatment they require. An editorial which appeared in the  Courier-Mail  of 5 November 1979 stated: 
Many Australians probably find it hard to comprehend a disastrous starvation problem, with thousands of people dead and dying, as close to our North as Brisbane is to Rockhampton. 
Australia, because of proximity to Timor, our wealth and, as we are so often told, good relations with Indonesia, must take the lead in helping save the lives of the people of this island, politically a part of Indonesia since 1976, geographically a pan of the ill-defined region known as Australasia. 
Now that the plight of these people is known world-wide the Indonesian Foreign Minister  (Dr Mochtar)  has indicated his Government would welcome foreign assistance in what was previously regarded as an internal problem. 
We were told so many times that it was an internal problem. How could it be an internal problem when East Timor was an entirely separate nation of people until the Indonesians went in there with, to use a cowboy expression, guns blazing. The editorial continued: 
Canberra has decided to send aid. The problem is to get it, in the right form, as speedily as possible, to those who need it. 
Timor presents immense distribution problems because of bad roads, few and wretched airstrips and poor communications generally. There is also the inefficiency of the spreadout Indonesian bureaucracy. 
This is a time for the cutting of red tape in Canberra and Jakarta. For each day lost, more people's lives may be. Australia must help to save these people, many of them young children. . 
My plea this evening is to the.Australian Government, as was my plea in 1975. It is that assistance be given to a group of people who are suffering, not because of their fault but because of what a powerful nation has done to them. I live next door to one of the largest air bases in the southern hemisphere. Day and night, to the annoyance of many of the people of Ipswich, we hear helicopters flying overhead. Every time I fly into Canberra when coming to attend parliamentary sessions I see helicopters flying and hovering around the Canberra airport. That must be the case with all our Air Force airports. As a country, we neglected to do the right thing in the beginning. We could have saved some 200,000 lives had we acted with a sense of decency and responsibility, as we should have, in 1975. Why can we not use those helicopters in Timor? Instead of flying around here they could be flying around there doing an humanitarian job of taking foodstuff, clothing, medical supplies, doctors, sisters and nurses into areas where they are needed. They could be saving not only the lives of adults but, more importantly perhaps, the lives of so many children who are dying of starvation and of all sorts of diseases. Because of lack of nutrition and everything else, their resistance is so low that even the common cold would kill them. 
My plea to the Australian Government at this late stage is not only that we send aid to Jakarta or wherever, but also that we treat the distribution of that aid as the most important of all. It does not matter how many millions of dollars or what tonnage of food is given; if it sits on a jetty or on a wharf at Jakarta or at Dili, it will not help the people in the little villages up in the mountainous areas. There is no way that the people of East Timor can distribute that foodstuff, or medical supplies or whatever. I ask the Government whether, in the name of humanity, we can distribute those items properly. The people flying those helicopters will continue to fly them here in Australia. They will still burn up fuel. They will still put in the flying hours required by their jobs. Why can they not do that for humanitarian purposes and bring help and relief to people? I urge the Government to do something else. Because of the situation in East Timor, numbers of people are prepared to give aid; but a lot more people would be prepared to give more if their gifts were made tax deductible. 
-Donations to East Timor? 
-Unfortunately that is not widely known and it needs to be made known. I am glad that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has intervened and said that donations to East Timor are tax deductible. I would also like to see the Government try to negotiate with the Indonesian Government to enable groups of people from various organisations, such as the Australian Red Cross Society, World Vision of Australia and others, to go to East Timor and help to distribute supplies, bringing relief to the people there. 1 understand that assistance is needed in reuniting families, which is not going along as well as it might. I believe that that is the fault of the people of Indonesia. I am told that families in Australia want their relatives to come out from East Timor. In one particular case, I understand that a lady who has been living in Australia wants her husband to rejoin her. She is raising four children here. She has to find sufficient money- something like $1,000- to have her husband transported from East Timor to Jakarta. She has to find the money to pay for his hotel accommodation et cetera in Jakarta while he waits for transport to Australia. That could add up to thousands of dollars. She faces that sort of expense despite the fact that the Australian Government will assist with the fare from Jakarta to Australia. There is a tremendous burden on the people who have come here and are trying to live under rather bad circumstances. In the case I mentioned, the lady concerned is trying to support four children because her husband is not able to rejoin her from East Timor. This is another area in which I urge the Government to do something more constructive and more concrete to help to reunite families in Australia. 
Again, I cannot stress strongly enough the urgent need that exists. I hope that the Government will take note of this need and make available the kind of transport of which we have so much in Australia. It is not being used in the way in which it could be used in East Timor to bring about the kind of relief that is so urgently needed. I believe that Australia, because of its lack of interest and inactivity in the beginning, now has a responsibility at least to ensure that the people who are still in Timor are given the opportunity to live their lives to the full. They can do so only if the kind of relief that is urgently needed is made available to them. I believe that Australia has the means of doing so. 
Tonight I raise a matter that concerns a young Aboriginal man named Eric Kyle, who is the Project Officer for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland. I refer to an attack that was made on  Mr Kyle  by  Mr Bertoni,  the National Party member for Mount Isa. It is relevant that I mention tonight that I have known Eric Kyle since he was a very small child. I lived in the Aboriginal community of Palm Island for quite a number of years. I knew Eric Kyle's parents.  His  father was Andrew Kyle and his mother was Rose Kyle. They raised a fairly large family on Palm Island. Andrew Kyle was held in high esteem by not only the Aboriginal community of the island but also departmental officers, including the then Director of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Con  O'Leary, and the then  Deputy  Director,  Mr Percy  Richards. Andrew and his wife were accorded great respect by not only the departmental officers but also the whole of the Aboriginal community. They raised their family in much the same way as many Australian families are raised- to respect law and authority and all those things that most Australians hold dear. Eric Kyle was raised in that kind of family environment. 
His father died some years ago and Eric, in common with many other young Aboriginal people, moved away from Palm Island to take his place in the general Australian community. Eric settled perchance in the city of Mount Isa. Because young Eric Kyle's father and mother had been very much involved in community affairs on Palm Island and the advancement of the Aboriginal people he learnt from his parents that he should take an interest in such matters and do whatever he could to forward the cause of Aboriginals wherever he decided to live. Because he chose to live in Mount Isa, he decided to assist in that regard there and became a member of a number of organisations in that city. 

 Mr Eric Kyle was attacked, viciously I believe, under privilege in the State Parliament of Queensland by the member for Mount Isa,  Mr Bertoni.  Despite the fact that  Mr Bertoni  was given a complete and absolute assurance by the federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland that the allegations that he proposed to raise under privilege in the State House were without foundation, he went ahead and castigated  Mr Eric  Kyle in that Parliament. He was not satisfied with that. He made sure that the  North-West Star,  which is the paper that is distributed throughout Mount Isa, the city in which he and  Mr Kyle  live, printed extracts from 
Hansard in which he castigated and made those accusations against not only  Mr Kyle  but also another officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs not only has regional offices throughout the State of Queensland, but also has a central office situated in Brisbane. I am sure that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  will have something to say later when I have finished what I have to say concerning the vicious attack by  Mr Bertoni  on both  Mr Kyle  and the other officer of the Department. In the course of his speech in the State Parliament  Mr Bertoni,  amongst other things, said: 
There is always a danger that the public, who are concerned, understandably, with equally pressing and often more immediate problems, will confuse the Queensland programme for the assistance of Aboriginal and Islander citizens with the spendthrift policies initiated approximately six years ago by the Whitlam Government and continued, in large part, by the present Commonwealth Government. 
The policies of the Federal Government in relation to aboriginal affairs have been expounded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs. In the interim period of office of the present Government  Mr Bob  Ellicott introduced the policies of the Federal Government. They were pursued and carried on by the person who became the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Ian  Viner, and then by the Honourable Fred Chaney when he became Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The policy of the Federal Government is one of assisting Aboriginal and Islander people throughout this nation to take their place in the general Australian community as respected and responsible citizens having the right to determine and manage their own affairs.  Mr Bertoni,  the Queensland Government and the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in Queensland seem to differ substantially from what the Federal Government is endeavouring to do. 
As I said, the allegations that were made by  Mr Bertoni  could not be substantiated. As I understand it, on 8 August 1979  Mr Bertoni  was advised by telephone that the Department could go no further regarding his oral allegations without a letter from him and facts supporting his complaints. The matters that were investigated on 17 September 1979 prove that  Mr Bertoni  was written to and advised that the complaints were not able to be substantiated but that the Department would be quite happy to discuss with him any of the problems that he mentioned. He took no advantage of the Department's offer to discuss these matters with him. On 2 October 1979  Mr Bertoni  called at the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and stated that he was not happy with the departmental investigation. He said that he would not be prepared to accept the evidence. He said that he would attempt at a later date to say the denigrating things that he said in State Parliament. I do not quite understand the ways of the State  Hansard,  but it shows that in turn 29, after making the remarks I quoted earlier,  Mr Bertoni  went on to say: 
There is a need for Queensland to put as much distance as possible between its policies and programmes, which are oriented towards practical goals, and the wildly experimental, wasteful and open-ended projects supported by the Commonwealth. I say this because the majority of Queenslanders and Australians are becoming increasingly fed up with the 'sit down' money paid by the Commonwealth to Aborigines, particularly in the Northern Territory, and the wasteful pouring of torrents of public funds into the bottomless pits of impracticalities and failed projects. 
If  Mr Bertoni  is referring to the unemployment benefit paid to Aboriginal people as sit down money, I would say that there are a substantial number of non-Aboriginal people in this nation who are also in receipt of what  Mr Bertoni  regards as sit down money. They also find themselves unemployed and unable to obtain a job and are in receipt of social security or unemployment benefits. I think it is quite unfair of  Mr Bertoni  to pick out the Aboriginal section of the Austraiian community and to regard the unemployment benefit that they receive as sit down money when there are about 300,000 Australians today in receipt of unemployment benefit. Why is he not saying that about the rest of the community? Why does he relate it just to Aboriginal people? 

 Mr Bertoni made some very strong criticisms of the officers connected with the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Mt Isa. He read a letter which he alleged was sent to him by an Aboriginal person living in the Mt Isa area. But when he was challenged by a member of the Opposition to table that letter he was not prepared to do so. My information from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland is that he has not made that letter available to the Department so that it can conduct a further and detailed investigation into the allegations he has made against  Mr Eric  Kyle. I have a copy of the Mt Isa newspaper, the  North- West Star,  which devotes almost half a page to  Mr Bertoni  's speech in the State Parliament in which he made some very critical and, I would say, denigrating remarks against  Mr Eric  Kyle. In the article which appeared in the newspaper he was reported to have stated: 
There is another gentleman in my area named  Mr Eric  Kyle. He is a project officer for the DAA. He is also a member of the executive of the ALP in Mt Isa. 
I do not care whether a man is a member of the Australian Labor Party, of the National Country Party or of whatever party he wants to belong to. If he is an officer of a department, is carrying out his duty according to the provisions laid down by the Government and is following the policy of the Government, I do not care what party he belongs to provided he is doing his job; and, as far as I am concerned,  Mr Eric  Kyle is doing his job. Fortunately,  Mr Kyle  was given the opportunity by the newspaper to reply to some of the allegations that were made by  Mr Bertoni.  In the article that appeared in that newspaper he said: 
I have here a comment- 
Referring to  Mr Bertoni,  of course- from somebody who works for that "Balyanna" society. She writes.' 
This document - 
This is referring to  Mr Kyle's  comments in relation to the allegations by  Mr Bertoni-  was not tabled by  Mr Bertoni  and I am informed the writer was an Aboriginal man who is well known amongst the Aboriginal community and those who know the community. 
It appears to me that whilst  Mr Bertoni  was prepared to read this document into the State  Hansard  he was not prepared to table it, nor was he prepared to make it available to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland so that an investigation could be carried out by the Department into the allegation made by this person. It appears as though  Mr Bertoni,  who is a member of the National Party, has taken it upon himself to castigate and denigrate a very responsible and respected member of the Mount Isa community because he is endeavouring to do something for his own people to promote their welfare and lift them out of the doldrums in which they find themselves at the moment.  Mr Kyle  has worked diligently for the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs to assist his own people. Because of his background and his upbringing, as I understand it, he has the confidence of the majority of the Aboriginal people in the Mount Isa community. He also has the confidence of a number of very responsible people in that community. I think it is a very low act when a member of a State parliament, under the privilege of parliament, takes to task a person without being able to substantiate any of the things that the member mentions in his speech in the State parliament. 
I have with me a number of telegrams. I think it is important that I read out at least two of the telegrams I have received from a number of people who support  Mr Kyle  and who have asked me to do something in relation to taking up the matter which was raised by  Mr Bertoni  in relation to  Mr Eric  Kyle. One of the telegrams comes from the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service in Cairns. The telegram sent to me reads: 
The  North West Star  Mount Isa has published an account on Eric Kyle by  Mr Bertoni  MLA in State Parliament. Legal Service is disgusted that this sort of biased attack can be made on respected black leaders. Could you approach  Senator Chaney  to make public rebuttal on Bertoni 's attack. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to a report I have received which suggests that there has been a decrease in lawlessness at the One Arm Point and La Grange missions in Western Australia since the appointment of Aboriginal justices of the peace in these two missions. Can the Minister confirm this report and advise the Senate whether further justices will be appointed at other communities? 
-by leave  -Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. In the course of the tirade we just heard from  Senator Chipp,  I claim I was misrepresented. He singled me out and said that I was directed by my party to vote on an issue which was before the Senate this morning. I categorically deny that. I have never been directed by my party. Despite what  Senator Chipp  said and unlike him, I have voted against my own Government on matters of conscience on a number of occasions in this place.  Senator Chipp,  as a member of the House of Representatives for many years, never once voted against his Government; and when he became a Minister again he never voted against his Government. 
I join the debate on the Human Rights Commission Bill 1 979 and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill 1979. It is always easy to criticise and, in the tenor of the present debate, to criticise indiscriminately without providing an alternative to what we seek to destroy. Whilst I see the need for a human rights Act, I feel that the Government, if it is not prepared to accept its responsibilities and to carry out in full the provisions of the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, is just whistling in the dark. The Government will perhaps accomplish with the Bill in its present form another toothless tiger such as the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. As we know, that Act, which was passed by the Federal Parliament, can be and has been ignored and, in some cases, has been held up to ridicule by people throughout the length and breadth of this nation but particularly by people in my State of Queensland. 
Let me give a classic example. The help of the Commissioner for Community Relations was sought some time ago by members of an Aboriginal group in north Queensland who wanted to purchase a large cattle property through the Aboriginal Land Fund. The Premier of 
Queensland and his Ministers were able to prevent that from happening purely and simply on the ground that the people involved were Aborigines. When the Commissioner tried to intervene and bring the parties together he was quite firmly told that neither the Ministers nor the Premier would entertain the idea of even talking with the Commissioner whose responsibility it was under the terms of that Act to try in the first place to arbitrate, conciliate or bring the parties together. The Ministers were not even prepared to do that. Of course, it is no wonder that the Act, as I said, is a toothless tiger. The Commissioner has no powers to prosecute anyone who offends against the Act. People can break the provisions of the Act or do what they like, but all the Commissioner can do issue a certificate which states that the person who has been offended against can prosecute. In most of these cases, particularly where racial discrimination or breaches of human rights occur, it is the most unfortunate people, economically, educationally and in other ways, who would not have the wherewithal to be able to carry out that kind of prosecution. 
At this stage, I congratulate the honourable Al Grassby for the manner in which he has performed the duties of Commissioner for Community Relations. I believe that he has promoted cultural and racial awareness, throughout the nation. I believe that what he has achieved is most creditable when one considers the blunt tools he was given to operate with in the first place. As I have already said, he was working under the terms of this Act which I claim again is a toothless tiger. Whilst I support the broad concept of this Bill, it requires, in my opinion, quite a number of amendments before it will achieve what appears to be the goal of the Government. I will discuss these matters later on. 
If this Government is to establish the necessary machinery to enforce the human rights of people in our nation, it must be, I believe, forthright and incorporate the very spirit of the International Covenant, and not merely enact some milk-sop legislation as we see now which pays only lip service to the principles. Unfortunately, as the Bill stands now it is merely windowdressing. It will not deceive neighbouring developing nations whose lack of human rights we in this country too freely, too often and too quickly criticise. Yet we are not prepared really to grab the bit in our teeth and do the job as I believe it should be done. 
If the Government cannot set up a commission which will have the necessary teeth to ensure human rights, the proposed Human Rights Commission will be just another useless bureaucracy. Heaven help us all; we certainly have enough of them. I believe that the very essence of human rights is, in the final analysis, the understanding of another's point of view and the awareness of another's culture and customs. It is typified in our much vaunted Australian saying of giving a fair go. I suppose that that is what human rights are all about- giving a fair go. I believe that this will not be achieved by this Bill. 
Whilst I will support the Bill with certain amendments, in truth I would rather see the money being spent in a different way altogether. I would like to see it spent in setting up some kind of an education program so that our young people could be educated to understand other people's cultures. I have always subscribed to the principle that only through knowledge will come understanding. Therefore, as I said, this Government should move to promote greater racial, cultural and ethnic awareness throughout the nation. To achieve that, as I said before, I would rather see the money spent in helping to educate people- not only children but all people. I would envisage racial and cultural programs at schools to develop in our young people an awareness of the richness of the cultures of minority groups which presently make up our nation. We are becoming a multiracial society because people are coming here from all parts of the world. 
I believe that racial stability and cultural understanding cannot be enforced, but they can be taught. We can be taught to appreciate the cultures of other people. We can do that through a learning process which will impart the necessary knowledge to all people, particularly the young. Perhaps it would be a little more difficult to teach the older generations of Australians because we are too set in our ways now and the prejudices we feel are too deep in our minds and hearts. But I believe that we can help to change the attitudes of our younger people, our children, through a program of education in the schoolsthe primary and secondary schools, even going on to the tertiary institutions- to impart a greater knowledge and understanding of other peoples. That would be a way of overcoming some of the racial prejudices which exist and the lack of human rights in certain areas. 
The greatest weakness in the Bill, as I said earlier, is that it does not ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political rights of 1966. We are told that Australia has signed that Covenant but has not yet ratified it, although we are told it will be ratified soon. In the Bill, the functions of the Commission are severely limited, as I said earlier. The Bill provides no real machinery to investigate the great majority of violations of human rights in Australia. I believe that the weakness is in the narrowness of the scope of the Commission, limiting its activities to investigating acts done or practices engaged in by the Commonwealth or under legislation of the Commonwealth. I believe that that provision emasculates the proposed Commission because, as has been said here time and time again, most breaches of human rights occur under State laws. That is in conflict with Article 50 of the Covenant- I think  Senator Tate  mentioned this in the course of his contribution to the debatewhich states: 
The provisions of the present Covenant shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions. 
Of course, that will not happen under this Bill. I believe that the areas which will fall within the province of the Commonwealth will be negligible, as presently State laws cover most of the areas in which breaches of human rights and discrimination occur. From my reading of the Bill, the Commission will have no power to initiate reports when human rights violations occur; it will have to await a request by the Minister. I believe that the Commission should have the power to move on its own initiative and to instigate such reports, rather than it having to wait for instructions from the Minister. 
I believe that the requirements under clause 10 (4) (f) that a complainant must have sufficient interest in the subject matter of a complaint to initiate that complaint will preclude complaints being made by human rights organisations throughout the country, such as Amnesty International. Again, I believe that requirement is unnecessarily restrictive. It should not be necessary for a person or body to establish sufficient interest when breaches of human rights are involved. Clause 1 1 makes provision for the Minister to arrange with a Minister of a State or the Northern Territory to perform Commonwealth functions or functions of the proposed Commission relating to the promotion and observance of human rights. That would permit the proposed Commission and/or the Commissioner for Community Relations to be bypassed. It would allow the States to carry out investigations of complaints whereas the Commissioner for Community Relations has been able to do that. 
I believe that a situation could arise in which the ministry could arrange for the Queensland Government authorities to investigate Aboriginal complaints in my State. That would be rather ludicrous because it is under State laws, particularly in my State, that most of the discrimination against Aboriginal people occurs. In lots of cases in my State it occurs as a result of the discriminatory provisions of the Queensland Government's Acts and policies, particularly under the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Acts. Clause 1 1 says also that such arrangements between the Minister of the Commonwealth and the respective State Ministers can provide for such incidental or supplementary provisions as they think necessary to apply. Those arrangements could be varied at will and would need only to be gazetted. Because of that, they would not be subject to tabling in, or variation or disallowance by, this Parliament. Such a power could have very wide implications and, I believe, is extremely dangerous. 
Clause 12, which will enable the Commission to act informally and not be bound by the formal rules of evidence, in itself is quite good, but I believe it should go further and allow for complainants to be protected in certain areas or cases in which they could suffer victimisation. Clause 15, which provides for conclusive certification which the Attorney-General may sign to deny the Commission access to documents on a number of grounds, I believe in itself is another dangerous area. It seems to pre-empt the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Freedom of Information Bill 1978. That clause, as well as clause 34, which is a secrecy provision, should be deleted from the Bill until the laws governing disclosure of government information are settled. 
Clause 16 does not provide the Commission with enforcement powers by way of legal action when all avenues of conciliation have failed. What is the use of bringing people together and trying to conciliate and arbitrate when if the people concerned go ahead and blatantly break the law, offend against the Act, that is the end of it and no other course of action can be taken? I believe that such a provision is completely unacceptable if we are to have fair dinkum legislation in relation to human rights and racial discrimination. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  remarked in his second reading speech that the Commission would not need enforcement powers of the type vested in the courts and that sanctions of a legal kind 'may even provide antagonism '-antagonism, mind you- 'rather than a spirit of co-operation which is so central in matters of reciprocal rights and obligations'. I find that pretty difficult to understand. The Attorney-General said that it may invoke antagonism. My God! If someone is being discriminated against, if someone is suffering because of a denial of human rights, and he takes strong steps against the person concerned, he will antagonise that person! What about the poor fellow who is discriminated against? What about the person who is suffering because of denial of human rights? If someone is really suffering and understands what it means to be discriminated against, with all the degradation that it can cause, he would not care about antagonising somebody. All he wants to do is to be free from that kind of attitude, that kind of discrimination and that kind of oppression. That is all he wants. He will not worry about whether he antagonises somebody, because that is not what the law is for. That is why I believe we should have legislation which gives power to prevent people continuing this kind of oppression. 
I believe strongly that the proposition that publicity will be a deterrent is erroneous, as there are some people and organisations to which the publicity, rather than being considered damaging, could be welcome. The more publicity that the Ku Klux Klan has the better it likes it. The Nazi party, whose members strut around wearing armbands, seeks publicity. There are many other ratbag organisations which flout all the principles of human rights. I do not think a little publicity will deter them in any way. I believe that in both these pieces of legislation there should be provision for prosecutions for breaches of human rights, regardless of the kind of discrimination there may be against a person or persons. 
I also criticise as being too restrictive the provision that only a judge, a barrister or a solicitor can be appointed as the Commission's  chairman.  There are many community leaders without legal qualifications who would be well suited to take on the responsibility of  chairman.  I have already mentioned one person who would be quite capable of doing the job. I refer to the Honourable Al Grassby who has had experience for the last four years as Commissioner for Community Relations. 
I mean it. I have seen the work that the man has done. I have had cases before him- cases that he has handled very well. I have said time and time again that in relation to stamping out discrimination the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975 has always seemed to me to be a toothless tiger as I have always felt that in most instances discrimination is a state of mind, an inherent belief, which can be eliminated only by reason, greater knowledge, tolerance and understanding. I do not think that we can really force people to change. We can stop them from doing something for a time, but we cannot change their attitudes or their state of mind. 
I am confining most of my remarks to the racial discrimination aspects of these two Bills. As I have said time and time again, there is no power in them to stop people committing the kinds of stupid acts committed by a man such as John Singleton. He wrote an article for the  Bulletin  in which he criticised and insulted people time and time again. He wrote that he visited communities. He made all sorts of derogatory statements about not just one person but also whole communities. He criticised the Yarrabah community, the Bloomfield River Mission, the Hope Vale community, Bamaga, Weipa and so on. What can the Commissioner for Community Relations do about some of the remarks he made about people? He can probably talk to this chap, find out why he did it and then say: 'Naughty, naughty, do not do it again'. I am disgusted that this man can get away with this. I have always felt that the  Bulletin  is a good publication- I read it myself- but I do not know how it could allow somebody to publish such an article which says so many things about so many Aboriginal people. 
I believe that this legislation will be watered down and will be worse than it was previously. I say that because I disagree with the amendments to the Racial Discrimination Act which will bring the Commissioner for Community Relations under the new Commission. He will not be a member of it. It will be an entirely new commission to which he will be responsible. He will have no way of doing things on his own behalf, as he has been doing by travelling around the country and setting up in different towns voluntary organisations of groups of people who are interested in looking into acts of racial discrimination. All that will go because now he will come under the umbrella of this new Commission. I believe that the Government is not being fair dinkum in this respect. Because I believe that something is better than nothing, I support the Bill in principle, but I will also be supporting some of the amendments that my colleague  Senator Missen  will be moving. I will also certainly be supporting the amendment containing what are called sunset provisions which will be moved by another colleague. 
-I support  Senator Missen  's amendment. We are not speaking about  Mr Grassby  or whosoever may follow in the job that he holds at the moment. What we are talking about in this amendment is that the office is important, whether or not the person holding it be  Mr Grassby;  and in my opinion that is taking nothing away from the job that  Mr Grassby  has done. 
It seems ludicrous to me that we are setting up the Human Rights Commission and that part and parcel of that Commission will be the Racial Discrimination Act under which the person holding the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations is to work. He has had four years' experience. He has built up a rapport not only with the migrant communities but also with all sorts of people within the community whom he has helped. He has become a symbol to a lot of oppressed peoplepeople who feel oppressed anyway- and ' to people who have been discriminated against. When these people find that something is wrong the first thing they do is to get in touch with the Commissioner for Community Relations- not necessarily the man but the Office- because of the way he has been able to achieve many things on their behalf. 
I am giving my total support to this amendment because I believe it is necessary, if we are to have Human Rights Commission and if we are to maintain the Racial Discrimination Act and the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, that the Commissioner have a vital role to play on that Commission. The Act that the Commission is administering is an important Act. It is important despite the fact, as I said in my speech at the second reading stage, that it is a toothless tiger. It does not go as far as I would like to see it go or as far as the people who are in need of it would like it to go, but at least someone is there- someone who is prepared to listen to their stories, to talk to them and to try to bring about some sort of solution to the problems that they are facing. 
Unless he is a member of this Human Rights Commission I do not believe he can continue to do the job that he has been doing until now. In the first place, he will not have sufficient staff. He will not be able to set up the voluntary groups which has established already in many towns scattered throughout Queensland and other States. He will not have the right to do that because he will have to go, cap in hand, to the proposed Commission to get permission to do those things, whereas he should be on that Commission, fighting battles on behalf of the people he represents. He should be right there, where the decisions are made. For that reason alone, I would support the amendment, but I support it also for all the other reasons which have been outlined already by  Senator Evans,  and  Senator Missen  and me. I believe that it is important for honourable senators tonight to carry the amendment to the Human Rights Commission Bill. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of the alleged pollution of drinking water and an outbreak of gastroenteritis in the Aboriginal community on Palm Island off Townsville? If not, will he investigate the matter to ascertain whether he, through the Minister for Health, might be able to give some assistance to the relevant Queensland authorities to overcome the problem? 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of a petition from 344 adult citizens of the Yarrabah community, addressed to the  Hon.  Charles Porter, M.L.A., Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland, giving support to Yarrabah councillors, Messrs P. Neal, C. Formile, V. Schrieber, S. Connolly and R. Smallwood in their endeavour to negotiate self-management and secure land tenure? If not, I would be quite happy to let him have a copy of it. Does the Minister agree that this is a true indication of the sincerity of the people of Yarrabah in wishing to gain land rights and selfmanagement? Further, will the Minister continue to negotiate with the Queensland Government so that Federal Government policy in these matters will become a reality for my people of Yarrabah? 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Government, in introducing the Aboriginal Development Commission Bill, is taking steps to put into effect what I have been saying for a number of years- the placing into Aboriginal hands of the control of Aboriginal affairs. I have said on many occasions in the past that the Aboriginal people have come of age. It has now been accepted by the Government that this proposition is undeniably true and this Bill confirms their belief in that view. I am confident that those Aboriginals who will be appointed to the Board of this Commission will accept the challenge the Government has thrown down to them. This is doubly an historical occasion, I believe, not only because of the importance of the Bill itself for the Aboriginal people, but for the first time in history an Aboriginal is introducing a Government measure into the Parliament. I sincerely hope that this measure will be accepted by the Aboriginal people and that they will support the Government's policies on self-management and self-sufficiency which underpin this measure. This Bill is another positive move towards meeting the Government's major policy commitments to the Aboriginal people of Australia. It places in the hands of Aboriginal people important instruments for their own advancement. It is a further step in the implementation of the policies of self-management. It is not the first step, nor is it the last. 
During the life of this Government, it has placed substantial capital assets and operations in Aboriginal hands and under Aboriginal control. These have included: in the Northern Territory, land rights in the form of land held in trust for Aboriginal owners in perpetuity; and throughout Australia, the purchase of land, enterprises and housing for both social and economic purposes. 
These accumulating assets are providing a new social and economic base for Aboriginals. The Commonwealth is not working alone in this. State governments are also playing a significant role in setting aside and preserving Aboriginal lands, including sacred sites. The Commonwealth will continue to encourage the States to make suitable provision for Aboriginals to have secure access to, and use of, land for their social, economic and cultural benefit. 
The Government recognises that there remain many areas of inadequacy in the field of Aboriginal affairs- be it health, housing, education or employment. We are not, therefore, satisfied with what has been achieved so far. While there have been many advances, much remains to be done. Some programs which have been introduced with the very best of intentions have not always succeeded in achieving their aims. In some such cases, significant causes of failure have been a lack of understanding of Aboriginal ways and a lack of sensitivity to Aboriginal people by governments and their public servants. For too long, non-Aboriginal people have generally decided what is 'good' for Aboriginal people. Under the Aboriginal Development Commission Bill, Aboriginals will be responsible for the decision-making. Of course, this is not to say that Aboriginals also will not make mistakes. It is to be expected that we will, as we all do. But Aboriginals should have greater sensitivity to Aboriginal needs and they will learn from any mistakes they make while exercising this responsibility. 
The purpose of this Bill is to create the Aboriginal Development Commission. The Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in his 1 975 policy speech said that the Government would: 
Fund programs which develop Aboriginal self-sufficienty and which represent initiatives that Aboriginals themselves believe will enhance their dignity, self-respect and self-reliance. 
The Commission is seen as a concrete expression of this principle. Also, an Aboriginal Entitlement Capital Account will be established and vested in the Commission in accordance with the joint parties' policy statement of 1 975 which: 
Recognises the problems arising from the past dispossession and dispersal of the Aboriginal people and the community's resulting responsibility. 
Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Viner  first announced the intention to establish the 
Capital Account on 26 October 1978. Subsequently, the decision to proceed with legislation to establish the Commission and the Capital Account was announced on 2 September 1979. The Commission will take over the responsibilities of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for acquiring land, the Aboriginal Loans Commission in making loans for houses and businesses, and the area of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which makes grants for enterprises. The amalgamation of these functions into one statutory Commission, which will be under the control of Aboriginals, will overcome problems of co-ordination, improve overall effectiveness in the delivery of these services to Aboriginals and provide greater scope for Aboriginal training and employment. The Bill 's purpose is to further the economic and social development of Aboriginals and, in particular, as a recognition of the past dispossession and dispersal of the Aboriginal people, to establish the Aboriginal Entitlement Capital Account with the object of promoting Aboriginal development, self-management and self-sufficiency. 
The Account will have two Funds, a Capital Fund and a General Fund. The Capital Fund will provide a permanent capital asset for the use and benefit of the Aboriginal people which will provide a further opportunity for Aboriginals to accumulate assets. In this it is not unique because, as I mentioned earlier, large capital assets have already been vested in the Aboriginal people. However, this will be the first explicit statutory recognition of the broad and wide concern of the Australian community to effect a just settlement. Honourable senators will recall the unanimous resolution of the Senate on my motion on 20 February 1975, which stated: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now knows as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
The Government draws attention to the fact that land rights, land purchases and other accumulating assets to which I referred earlier are real measures of compensation. Additional moneys to those required for the annual programs and administration of the Commission will be provided to the Capital Fund so that it can operate as an accumulating investment account. The moneys appropriated to the Capital Fund will not be available for distribution by the Commission to its programs and administration, but the income which is received from the investment of these moneys will. The capital will be placed in approved forms of investment. Payments to the Capital Fund will be determined annually in the budgetary context and will provide a significant and increasing source of capital. This is a new development which ultimately will lead to independence from Government funding. 
The basis of the General Fund will be the moneys currently available to the Aboriginal Loans Commission, the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Department's enterprise vote. Future amounts will be determined in the budgetary context. The 1979-80 appropriation for the Aboriginal Loans Commission is $5. 5m. The 1979-80 appropriation for the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is $0.8m which, together with an amount of $0.556m carried over from 1978-79, will make available $1.3m for the Commission's activities in 1979-80. The Enterprise grant-in-aid appropriation for 1979-80 is $3.6m. The total of these appropriations is $ 10.5m. It is estimated that an additional $2m from the recycling of existing housing and enterprise loans will also be available. Additional moneys will be necessary for the Commission to be administratively autonomous from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In addition to moneys from these sources, it is proposed that the Commission should also be able to receive moneys from nonCommonwealth sources, such as gifts and bequests. The Commission will also have a borrowing power within Australia which will be subject to appropriate limits. 
It should be noted by honourable senators that the Commission will have a ten-member Board of which at least seven members, including the  Chairman,  will be Aboriginals. The other three members may be Aboriginals or nonAboriginals but are required to have expertise respectively in banking, property and business. In deciding to permit non-Aboriginals to hold up to three positions on the Board, the Government accepted the advice given by the all Aboriginal Council for Aboriginal Development. Appointments will be made by the Governor-General. The Commission will develop its own policies, subject to any general Ministerial directions which the Commission will be required to set out in its Annual Report to Parliament on its operations and activities. It should be recognised that with such authority being vested in the Commission, it will carry the responsibility for its decisions. Provision is made in the Bill for the National Aboriginal Conference to comment to the Minister on the Commission's annual report. The Minister is required to table both the Commission's annual report and the comments by the National Aboriginal Conference in the Parliament. This is the first statutory recognition of the National Aboriginal Conference and thus focuses on the National Aboriginal Conference as the elected representative body of the Aboriginal people. 
The major functions of the new body will be to advise and make recommendations to the Minister on the economic and social development of Aboriginals- a new statutory function; to acquire land for Aboriginal communities and groups on a walk-in-walk-out basis; to assist Aboriginals to obtain loans for houses and certain personal purposes; to make loans and grants to Aboriginals, including individuals, partnerships, clubs, cooperatives or companies, who are capable of engaging in business enterprises to set up business ventures; to provide training for its personnel and its clients; and to assume new functions.  Mr Viner's  statement of 26 October 1978 stresses maximum participation of Aboriginal people in the development of the final proposals'. A task force was commissioned in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to consult with interested Aboriginals and Aboriginal organisations throughout Australia, including the National Aboriginal Conference and the Council for Aboriginal. Development. The task force received detailed submissions from the Aboriginal Loans Commission and the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. Reports from Aboriginal organisations and individuals were also taken into consideration. 
The question of a report by the National Aboriginal Conference on the Bill was discussed between the National Aboriginal Conference Executive and the Minister on 9 November. These discussions took place in the context of a call for a treaty. Some people have said that a treaty is the proper approach, while others have expressed concern that a treaty is not appropriate because of its international connotations. Both the Government and the National Aboriginal Conference acknowledge the obvious fact that we are all citizens of Australia and the Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference has indicated that it, like the Government, is interested in negotiating consensual arrangements about the appropriate provisions which should be made by the Commonwealth for the Aboriginal people of Australia. The National Aboriginal Conference has described the proposal as 'makarrata', a Yolnu word which signifies the end of a dispute between communities and between a community and an offender and the resumption of normal relations. The problem of a divided nation which some people have mentioned does not arise in the dealings between the Commonwealth and the National Aboriginal Conference as the elected representatives of the Aboriginal people. At its discussions, the National Aboriginal Conference Executive decided to establish a committee to examine not only the proposal for an agreement but also the Bill, and to provide its comments on the latter by early March 1 980. The Minister indicated to the Executive that the committee, in its work, might cover long-term arrangements in Aboriginal affairs. The Executive has stated that it sees its consultations on the longer term proposal for an agreement extending over the next 1 8 months. 
The Council for Aboriginal Development is the formal advisory body to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and, through him, to other Ministers and Commonwealth authorities responsible for policies and programs bearing directly on Aboriginals. The Minister has therefore consulted the Council for Aboriginal Development on this and other matters on a number of occasions. The Council made detailed recommendations to the Government which have greatly assisted in the preparation of this Bill. The Minister wishes to thank the Council for its contribution. 
As stated previously, the Commission will be an Aboriginal controlled body and will therefore be responsible for the recruitment, selection,  appointment, promotion and dismissal of its staff. The Government anticipates that the Commission will seek maximum Aboriginal staffing. To assist the Commission, it is proposed to expand training programs for Aboriginal staff early in 1980. In its 1977 policy statement, the Government acknowledged the general importance of training in management and other skills. Training will have an important bearing on the success of this Commission. It will be a necessary requirement to ensure that aboriginalisation will in fact become a reality within an acceptable period of time. The Commission cannot expect to function effectively unless Aboriginals acquire the necessary skills, to control operations and meet objectives. 
A great deal has been achieved through the existing commissions, which were set up in 1974. The valuable contribution made by  Dr Charles  Rowley,  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, and  Sir Thomas  Wardle,  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Loans Commission, and their fellow commissioners in these important areas of Aboriginal affairs, is recognised and appreciated. 
The two existing commissions will continue their roles until the new Act is proclaimed. It is intended that the Bill be available for public scrutiny and debate and that it should lie on the table until later in the autumn sittings with a view to passage and then proclamation by I July 1 980. This will allow for public comment to be received and assessed by the Government. Copies of the Bill, explanatory notes and a 'plain English ' version will be circulated to Aboriginal individuals and communities, and other interested bodies, throughout Australia. 
The task force will conduct further consultations with Aboriginal people throughout Australia during the early New Year period, and all interested individuals and organisations will be asked to forward submissions by no later than early March. A similar process was followed in relation to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. Comment and suggestions on the contents of the Bill, therefore, would be welcomed as its-enactment will have an important impact on Aboriginal economic and social advancement. The Government will take representations into account in arriving at the final form of legislation. 
It is not too many years ago that I was degraded by being obliged to have a permit in order to leave the Palm Island Aboriginal Reserve. As a contrast, it is a source of great pride to me as an Aboriginal senator to. stand here today and be able to commend to honourable senators this Bill, which represents a significant step forward for my people- a step which I am absolutely confident that they will unhesitatingly take. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to a question I asked on 6 November 1979. 1 will read part of the question: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to an article which appeared in the Brisbane  Sunday Sun  of 4 November, wherein it is alleged that the widow of a deceased Australian war hero, Warrant Officer Ray Simpson, V.C., D.C.M., is presently living in impoverished circumstances in Japan . . . 
I do not know whether the Minister heard the  AM  program this morning wherein this matter was discussed and the wife of this Australian hero explained her disappointment. She had applied for a pension.  Her  application was rejected. She appealed. Again, her appeal was rejected. I again ask the Minister: In view of the circumstances and the widespread concern in relation to this lady, will the Government consider this matter and do something for her, whether by way of a pension or something else which can help? There is widespread concern about this matter. I express my great concern that we, as a country, should neglect the wife of a man who contributed so much for Queen and country. 
