Thank you,  Mr President.  I appreciate such courtesies being extended by members of this chamber, as I am sure they will appreciate the short amount of time they will now have in which to cool down. As I rise this evening to support the motion I should like to say how honoured I am to be a member of the Senate, even though my stay will be such a short one. I am honoured to be the first senator to represent the Australian Democrats and to be the first woman to do so. As honourable senators are aware, I am due to finish my term at the end of June. However, until then I intend to fulfil the obligations of my position to the very best of my ability. I will endeavour to uphold the dignity of the Senate, to pursue the interests of my home State of South Australia, and to add, if possible, to the ever increasing regard in the community for women parliamentarians already engendered by that small but effective group which graces this chamber. However, it is not my intention to restrict myself to so-called women's issues or to put only the woman's point of view, whatever that is. On the contrary, I intend to concern myself with as many issues as possible affecting the people of this nation and South Australia in particular. 
The results of the recent election surprised everyone with regard to the size and uniformity across the country of the coalition victory. That victory has led members of the Australian Labor Party to beat their collective brows and to ask themselves and the general public where they went wrong. I suggest that perhaps the problem lay in the fact that they were over-zealous in the courtship of the Australian voter and frightened away the bride with their enthusiastic advances. In the end, the object of their affections preferred to continue with an already established de facto relationship rather than move into another of questionable security. Truisms have an unfortunate habit of being fairly accurate assessments of life, and 'once bitten, twice shy ' is as true of politics as it is of any other form of living. 
Before government members become too carried away with congratulatory back thumping they should realise exactly what their support is in real terms. On 10 December 1977 the Liberal Party of Australia polled for the House of Representatives 38.1 per cent of the national vote, the Australian Labor Party 39.7 per cent, the National Country Party 10 per cent and the Australian Democrats 9.4 per cent. For the Senate the figures were Liberal-National Country Party 45.6 per cent, Australian Labor Party 36.9 per cent, and Australian Democrats 11.1 per cent. Those figures should hardly be a source of jubilation for the coalition, despite the fact that they brought government. In effect, the figures show, taking the Senate figures, that 54 out of every 100 Australians were sufficiently sceptical of the Liberal Party policy as put forward in November or were dissatisfied enough with the Government's performance during its 1975-1977 term to vote against it. It is vital, therefore, that after realising that unpleasant fact the Government accepts that its responsibilities lie not simply with rewarding its supporters but with looking carefully at the legislation proposed for the coming session to see where and how it can do the most good for the most people. The role of the Senate is invaluable here if, as I believe it should, it is kept as free as possible of party politics, it acts as a House of review and it considers legislation that comes before it on its merits and its values to the community as a whole. 
In yesterday's address by  His Excellency  the Governor-General of Australia the Government put forward, among the apparently mandatory expressions of self-approval, a number of suggestions for furthering the development of Australia and promoting the welfare of its inhabitants. I propose to deal with several of them tonight. The Government pledged that it would, among other things, assist Aborigines 'To become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. ' It emphasised that it would 'continue its efforts to improve the status of women in the Australian society', that it wished to contribute to the 'further development of internationally accepted principles of human rights' and that it would 'work to improve the quality of education at all levels.' How is the Government going to achieve these aims, laudable as they are? Why, in the main, by setting up bodies of people, giving them grandiose titles and then standing back smugly saying: 'There, you see, we really are concerned; our conscience is clear; we have done something for the people '. But,  Mr President,  has it really? I think not. Let us consider first of all the Government's desire to improve the lot of our Aboriginal population, so that they do indeed become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. Does the Government think that this will be achieved only by the formation of a nebulous body or two? It is deceiving itself if it does, if at the same time it ignores other very valuable schemes at achieving the same result. I must add here that I intend no criticism of the work of such bodies as the National Aboriginal Conference but only of their exclusive use as a palliative when others are available. 
I cite as one example the deplorable situation of the Aboriginal Community College in Adelaide. Here is a college which draws its students from Aboriginal communities, mainly in South Australia, and which caters for Aboriginal people aged from 1 8 to 50 years. Its aim is to establish a clear Aboriginal identity and to that end it was established under a grant from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is the only college of its kind in Australia and it will remain so as long as it continues in the tenuous position it now occupies. It has no really permanent residence. The one it now occupies in prestigious North Adelaide is not a particularly distinguished building, yet it costs $24,000 of wasted rental per annum, money that could well be spent better. The staff are not tenured; they are on a yearly contract basis and this does not make for stability. The principal and members of the council have endeavoured to remedy the situation by approaching various State and Federal Ministers and departments. But while everyone is sympathetic no one feels able to help in any real way. So the college- a pilot scheme which is positively adding to the stature of Aborigines in the community, which is truly encouraging selfhelp and self-development among the Aboriginal community- is tottering on its feet, continuing only because of the compassion and concern of its staff and the keenness of its students. I ask: How can the Government really expect people to believe that it cares about the development of the Aboriginal community if it is prepared to ignore the plight of such a valuable venture? Of course it cannot. 
But Aborigines are not the only group in the community subject to the administration of placebos rather than restorative medicine. Women, individually and as a group, are faced with a similarly frustrating situation. Once again, nice noises are made about the necessity to increase the status of women but the only way that the Government can see of going about this is to recommend the setting up of yet another council. How can this be more valuable, how can it achieve more than active, positive measures on the part of the Government to improve the general attitude to women amongst the community as a whole and within government departments in particular? No amount of advisory counselling will improve the status of women if the Commonwealth Public Service refuses to promote equal numbers of women as of men into senior positions, when married women are singled out by some sections of the community and held responsible for youth unemployment, although these same critics conveniently ignore the 152,000 men who hold down two jobs, when the Federal Government allows into the country, and State governments permit the sale of, the amount of degrading pornographic material which is at present available? How can women ever respect themselves if their bodies are photographed being subjected to treatments that are not legally permitted to be done to animalssimply for the perverted pleasure of some men? 
How can they walk with dignity if this son of behaviour by some men has the tacit approval of others? 
Again, the Government has two perfect opportunities for positively improving the standing of women in the community, namely, insisting on equal promotional opportunities for women in the Public Service and in banning all imported and locally made pornographic literature from sale. But it ignores them in preference, yet again, to applying a council placebo.  Mr President,  I despair of the Federal Government ever acheiving anything at all in either of these areas or in the areas of human rights and quality of education if it continues in this vein. The rights of Aborigines and women will never be assured if the Government and other bodies continue to blinker themselves, continue to look at the problem from the wrong end of the telescope so that individuals disappear into the middle distance and injustices and anomalies are treated by talking rather than doing. 
The rights of children to the best education system possible- as distinct from the best education system available- will be similarly glossed over if governments both State and Federal, Liberal and Labor, continue to provide material items and resources in preference to providing human resources. Tape recorders, video machines, rock gardens and landscaped gardens are immediately obvious to the electorate. The teachers, and extra classrooms for those teachers provided for the same cost, are not so obvious althought they would be of far greater value to the students concerned. 
I suggest to honourable senators that the time has come for us to stop providing placebos and to start administering restorative medicine; to provide actions not words; teachers, not tape recorders; relationships, not rock gardens; constructive reform as well as councils and commissions. I therefore support the motion, more in the hope that the Government will attain its objectives than in the faith that it will, especially if its persists in directing its approach pragmatically rather than positively, cosmetically rather than with compassionate concern for each individual Australian. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the detailed submission made in July last year by the Insurance Brokers Council of Australia to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer stressing the need for the introduction of legislation protecting members of the public who use broker services? If he is, can he say whether the Government intends to consider the request of that body that the Government should continue with broker legislation either in the complete form originally proposed in the draft Insurance Brokers Bill 1976 or in the watered down self-regulatory version suggested by the IBCA as an acceptable alternative? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services, bearing in mind the touchingalthough I am sure genuine- concern he expressed yesterday for both the looming energy crisis and the state of the taxpayer's pocket, aware that Australian Design Rule 27a relating to motor vehicle emission control has had a damaging effect on both these areas far outweighing its environmental value? Is he prepared to take the logical step of recommending to his colleagues that the requirements under ADR 27a be scrapped by the Government forthwith? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport say whether the study by the Joint Government Advisory Committee on Adelaide Airline-Airport Requirements been completed? If not, can the Minister say when the study is likely to be completed, when the report will be finalised, and to whom that report will be made available? Further, can the Minister give an assurance that the existing curfews will remain and that runway lengths will not be altered to accommodate international nights, notwithstanding anything to the contrary that may be recommended by the committee? 
As has been pointed out previously, we are dealing with, the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill 1978. From the number of South Australians who have risen to speak on this Bill it must be obvious that as a State we are extremely concerned about the water resources back home- or, rather, the lack of them. Never having been one to let the side down, I would like to spend the next few minutes looking at the water future of South Australia. What an exciting future we have. We will take over from Western Australia as the 'State of Excitement ' before too long. 
First of all, I agree with  Senator McLaren's  comments on the need for Chowilla. I point out that on 5 December 1961 the River Murray 
Commission resolved, firstly, that additional regulation of the waters of the River Murray is essential to give greater security in years of drought and to prevent disastrous losses which would otherwise be inevitable; secondly, that exhaustive hydrological investigations have shown that the provision of a large storage at Chowilla would be the most effective and economic means of providing this additional regulation; and, thirdly, that detailed site investigations have demonstrated the practicability of constructing a dam at Chowilla to provide this storage. I point out to  Senator McLaren  that, although the Liberal Government rejected proposals for the building of that dam in 1970,  Mr Dunstan  did not help either by failing to keep the promise which he made in the elections of that year and around which he based his campaign, namely, that the Labor Government would ensure that it was provided. In what has to be the greatest piece of political chicanery ever, he deceived the people and in so doing deprived them- or should I say ' us '-of decent water. 
South Australia is notorious for its water. It is muddy; it is salty; and it tastes and smells foul. It is probably better suited to top dressing the garden than to quenching our thirst. Any senator from South Australia who stands up to speak and is presented by the attendant with one of these glasses of beautiful water can only weep that we have to chew ours 32 times before swallowing it, whereas in Canberra and the eastern States this is what we are provided with. 
-Is that what it is? We are on the end of the Murray; that is the problem. I endorse, therefore, the remarks made by both  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Young  regarding the salinity problem in South Australia and the urgent need that exists there for a desalination program. I would like to add to their remarks by drawing the attention of the Senate to several reports which have appeared recently in various newspapers around the country and which attest to the appalling state of South Australia's water. I might add that no South Australian needs to read the newspaper to have that pointed out. On 1 5 August last year the Adelaide  Advertiser  ran an article by conservation writer Kim Tilbrook headed 'The future of water' and sub-headed 'The quality of the vital Murray water is deteriorating with salinity. This could have far-reaching social and political implications '. He goes on to say: 
Salinity levels ofthe River Murray in South Australia have already exceeded standards accepted by the World Health Organisation. 
It is a sobering thought for those who rely on the river for drinking water. 
In recent years salinity has been increasing, raising serious doubts about the river's remaining our lifeline. Now, 64 per cent of the salinity comes from New South Wales and Victoria - 
Not only do the eastern States steal our tourists; they also destroy our water- and if it continues unchecked the Murray will be useless for South Ausralian irrigators by the turn ofthe century. 
Just how long we can go on drinking river water after then is not known. But experts believe it would probably be only a few years. 
Most of South Australia depends on the Murray. It supplies about 66 per cent of our water needs in a normal year. In a dry year it supplies 83 per cent of our needs, which shows our reliance. 
In the past 12 years salinity has risen by an alarming 10 per cent. 
The implications of all this cannot be stressed enough when we consider a statement printed on page 23 of a document emanating from the Department of Environment and Conservation, entitled  An Evaluation of The Dartmouth Project, April 1974.  The statement is headed 'Salinity'. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a short section of this report. It is only about 150 words long but it is written in the typically convoluted style of bureaucratic reports, and I would rather not read it aloud. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SALINITY 
Introduction 
1 The principal environmental effects associated with the Dartmouth project are those arising from the increase in irrigation in the two upstream States. The two most important adverse effects are expected to be: 
some increase in the rate of rise of water tables, or a rise in water tables in areas where they have stabilised, and a consequent extension of areas affected by shallow water tables, and by salinity where the groundwater is saline. 
an increase in saline inflows into the River Murray resulting from increased saline surface drainage, and from increased groundwater flows into drains and streams discharging into the Murray, and directly into the Murray itself. 
In effect, what this section says is that the principal environmental effect associated with the Dartmouth project is that the Murray will increase in salinity. It says this without making any further comment about the damage that this will cause to South Australia and South Australians. It is if I may say so, a typical piece of political cynicism on the part of those who think that Australia finishes at the western border of Victoria. The report goes on to say: 
On the other hand, the increased allocation of water to South Australia post-Dartmouth will result in correspondingly greater regulated flows passing the South Australian border - 
The report at least acknowledges that we exist- and this will have a significant dilution effect. 
But will it be sufficient, bearing in mind the section from the  Advertiser  article that I have just quoted? I doubt it, particularly in view of the fact that governments are notoriously slow to appreciate such problems. On 26 December last year the  Age  carried a report of a joint StateFederal Government meeting on this problem and commented again that in Adelaide the saline level in drinking water is reaching maximum desirable limits. The  Age  article goes on to say: 
Now, about 60 years after the salinity problems were first noticed - 
Sixty years, that is over half a century- three State governments have got together to clean it up. 
New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia recently formed a joint committee to draw up a plan- but it will be Federal politicians who provide the funding. 
It is this last sentence that I think is most pertinent to the debate on this Bill and to implementation as an Act. It is vital to the future of South Australia's water supplies and to the development of that State that desalination programs should have a high priority in any allocation of funds under the Act. I therefore greeted with some horror the rather cynical remark by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack about ways and means of getting hold of money. I hope that South Australia is not too far away from the $200m bakehouse, because if it is I fear that its future is limited. I support the Bill as it stands in the hope that in the future it will bring some long-term and short-term benefits to South Australia. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that Australians are spending more money in travelling overseas- I believe almost twice as much- than overseas visitors are spending in Australia? Is the Minister also aware that the Australian Tourist Commission was, in its own words, 'required to withdraw from domestic tourism' in 1976-77, only two years after having domestic tourism added to its brief? Can the Minister say who or what caused this withdrawal? Finally, what steps, if any, are now being taken to remedy the situation and to encourage Australians to spend their tourist dollar in Australia? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce indicate the extent of the total subsidy by way of tariffs, grants and other assistance being given to the vehicle building industry? Can he say how this compares with the wage bill of the vehicle building industry? Finally, can he say for what purposes these aids and subsidies are being given? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs say whether at present an examination is being conducted of Australia's position with regard to United Nations convention 710, the international convention for the suppression of the circulation of and traffic in obscene publications? If such an examination is in progress, can the Minister say who is conducting the examination, what are their qualifications, what, if any, are their terms of reference and when is the examination likely to be completed? 
-I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, although he may feel that another Minister could more appropriately answer the question. 
-Senator Wheeldon is correct. 'Hear, hear' is probably more appropriate than 'read, read' for the Leader of the Government whose apparent lack of reading ability is well known in the Senate. Is the Leader of the Government aware that for the first time a research project of the world respected Club of Rome is being initiated in Australia, all previous projects having been carried out in Europe or the United States of America. This project, being conducted at Macquarie University, is a psychological study probing into man's interest in his future. In the light of the importance to and prestige for Australia in having a project of such global interest taking place here, can the Leader of the Government indicate what, if any, support from the Government in terms of finance and facilities, or any other assistance and encouragement, will be offered to the project and its organisers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education although again the ministerial responsibility for a reply is blurred. Is the Minister aware of the invidious position in which the Adelaide Aboriginal College finds itself with regard to funding, accommodation and staffing? How does the Minister justify the Government's apparent lack of positive action on the problem in view of the Governments avowed intentions with regard to improved Aboriginal status and selfmanagement and educational standards generally? Can the Minister say whether and how the Government intends to help the Adelaide Aboriginal College, thereby implementing the policies that it has stated? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that the majority of texts on educational psychology booklists in Australian colleges of advanced education seem to be American in origin and relate to American conditions, needs and issues? Does the Minister approve of this, bearing in mind that Australia is not yet an American State and in any case it has social, educational and cultural issues and needs different from those of the United States of America? If he does not approve, can the Minister say what, if anything, he can do to correct this situation? For example, is he prepared or able to encourage positively research into Australian schools and student behaviour so that texts relevant to Australian conditions can be prepared and published for the benefit of future Australian teachers and school children? I conclude my question by saying that I realise that CAEs are autonomous, but my question has been prompted by grumblings of discontent from some students of some CAEs at the apparent irrelevance of the texts that they are given in their courses to their future occupation. 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I preface it by reminding him that following the devastation caused to Army aircraft located in Oakey in Queensland late in March when about $lm damage was done by a freak storm, the Minister for Defence promised that an inquiry would be held. Can the Minister say, firstly, what were the results of that inquiry, if it has been completed, and, if it has not, when the outcome is likely to be known? Secondly, can the Minister say what, if any, precautions have since been taken at other bases in Australia to protect aircraft from accidental or nonaccidental damage? Is the Minister aware, for example, that at Edinburgh airfield in South Australia a number of what I believe to be Orion aircraft can still be seen every day standing quite a small distance apart on the tarmac, providing a disturbingly ready target either for natural destroyers, such as storms, or man-made ones? Can the Minister assure the Senate and the people of Australia that our regrettably small number of defence aircraft will be suitably and sensibly protected in the future? 
I am a little startled that this debate has come on quite so soon today. I had expected that some honourable senators would speak for a little longer on some of the earlier topics on the Notice Paper. I would like to say a few words about these reports. This subject interests me, both as a parent and as a teacher- as a parent whose children are attending an independent school, as a teacher who has taught for many years in a state school and as one whose husband and parents also teach in state schools. A great deal has been said about funding increasing standards in education, the concern the community has for value for money which  Senator Davidson  quite rightly pointed out, and the concern that we all have for quality in education and for increased numeracy and literacy. 
However, one wonders whether perhaps we are looking a little too closely at the amount of money being allocated and not as closely as we could at the way in which it is being spent after it has been allocated. We have grants for special projects, recurrent grants and grants for all sorts of things- which are spent it seems to me, in a period of decreasing numeracy and literacy in some areas, in a way which leaves much to be desired. For instance, I wonder why $17,500 is spent on what is described as a multi-level program for the intergeneration of the expressive arts, whatever that means, when perhaps the same amount of money could more aptly be spent on the provision of an additional classroom for a school which would then decrease class sizes. It also surprises me that $250,000 is spent on a resources centre when teachers in the same school have classes of a size which are too large to effectively enable them to use that resources centre. It is wonderful to have videotape machines, colour televisions sets, a plethora of tape recorders and other equipment provided in schools. But I question the value of this equipment and I question the value of spending money on it when we have class sizes of 35 pupils, despite what the figures tell us. When we have classes of 35 pupils or even 30 pupils I wonder how efficiently a teacher can make use of the hardware and the software which is provided by the money made available under these grant schemes. I wonder how many teachers have the time or the inclination to teach a class of 35 pupils how to use tape recorders and cassettes to the best possible educational advantage. I wonder how many teachers use the television sets and videotape machines provided in schools in lieu of providing good quality teaching. I question in fact whether we are obtaining value for money from the grant schemes discussed in the reports before the Senate today. 
There is no doubt that we are a materialistic society. I wonder whether this is particularly good. It seems to me that instead of providing tape recorders and television sets for students to relate to and videotape machines for their use we could better spend the money allocated in providing classrooms and additional teachers so that our students grow up relating to something human rather than relating to something with buttons, cogs and wheels- an inanimate object with which they cannot communicate. Therefore, I question the priorities that schools and States have in placing items on their lists of priorities. Too many people seem to see the possession of these items which are visible to the electorate as more important than providing people. I grant you,  Mr President,  that we can provide many more tape recorders and television sets for $10,000 than teachers and that the $18,000 it costs to provide one demac classroom in a school in South Australia would give benefit to only that one school. But it would not have nearly as much electorate appeal as providing tape recorders which would cost that same amount of money. 
I therefore question most seriously the political pragmatism that is used in the spending of money. Whilst I agree that it is very necessary to keep educational standards high- and we will do this only if the Commonwealth justifiably provides money to be spent by the States- I do not agree that the way the money is being spent is necessarily in the best interests of the student. It may well be in the best interests of the State. It may well be in the best interests of the Commonwealth Government to provide this money. But I question very seriously whether it is helping to lift the general standard of education in a period when literacy and numeracy- skills involved in reading, writing and adding up- are being queried by such a large percentage of the population. It seems to me to be a little irrelevant to have tape recorders, rock gardens and television sets- things- in schools for students to relate to when we are not teaching them how to communicate with human beings. It is not possible to ask a tape recorder a question. It seems that we are not providing the teachers necessary to enable our students to ask them questions.  Mr President,  it seems that I must seek leave now to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, arises out of a statement on 14 March issued  jointly by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the Minister for Science. The statement relates to proposed restrictions on the importation of measuring devices not acceptable within the metric system. I ask the Minister: Is this statement an admission by the Government that there is enough opposition to metrication among some sections of industry and the community to make it necessary for the Government to force this iniquitous conversion on industry and individuals by such measures as actively restricting the importation of measuring devices marked in imperial units? Can the Minister say which representatives of industry, commerce and consumer groups mentioned in that statement have actually supported the introduction of such controls? Is the Minister aware that some industries involving heavy machinery, for example the metal trades industry and sections of the building industry involved with additions to homes built before the introduction of metrication in Australia, are finding the Government's insistence on making everything in this country divisible by ten both uneconomic and impractical? Finally, what are the 'special circumstances' referred to in the statement under which exemptions will be allowed? 
-I preface my question to the Attorney-General by reminding him of an answer given to me earlier this year by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a question I asked about Australia's position under United Nations Convention 710. In his answer the Minister stated: 
Inquiries have been made overseas to determine the attitude to the convention of other States which are parties to it. As soon as replies have been received to all the inquiries which have been made, the Departments concerned will be in a position to make recommendations to the Government on what action, if any, should be taken in relation to that convention. 
I ask the Attorney whether he and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are aware of the existence of a number of Australian groups opposed to the free availability and sale of pornographic publications? If they are, can the Attorney-General say whether these or other people will be consulted before the Government arrives at a decision about the enforcement or otherwise of United Nations Convention 710? If they are not to be consulted, I ask why overseas attitudes are considered to be of more relevance than Australian opinions on this issue? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister say how much revenue the Government collects from the levy of an airport tax on the use by Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines of capital city airports in Australia? Can the Minister say whether the amount of tax paid by each airline is the same? If it is not, can be give the reason for the difference? Can the Minister say what percentage of the price of an airline ticket paid by the consumer is made up of an amount added by the companies concerned to regain the money paid in tax to the Government? If this is a substantial percentage of the price of the ticket, will the Minister consider recommending to the 
Government that airport taxes be lowered to encourage domestic air travel within Australia and hence to assist the tourist industry within this country? 
I think it has been obvious during the time I have been a member of this chamber that I do not make a habit of rising to speak on any Bill just for the sake of doing so, particularly when the opinions that I have are shared and very ably expressed by other honourable senators from either side of the House. However, I intend to speak on this occasion because these Bills are concerned with principles about which the Party I represent and I feel particularly strongly. Therefore I feel it incumbent upon me to have these feelings officially recorded. I heartily endorse the expressions of opinion of  Senator Colston  and  Senator Melzer  in particular and I do not intend to cover those same topics in any detail. 
First of all let me make it quite clear that I am totally opposed to the mining, processing and marketing of uranium. On that ground alone, therefore, I must reject completely the aims and the proposed methods of achieving those aims as expressed in the Bills before us today. I know that I express the feelings and the ideas of the majority of the members of the Party which I represent in the Senate when I say that I consider that nuclear energy is too potentially and actually dangerous, indeed hazardous, to be used to any great extent at the present time. Despite  Senator Jessop  's comments about the relative levels of radioactivity of a glass, of wine and the Lucas Heights establishment, I must confess to feeling far more confident having my nightly glass of wine in the parliamentary dining room than I would be in any association with the mining, processing or marketing of uranium or uranium derivatives. Too many problems remain unsolved. Waste disposal, the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the potential for terrorists activities are all possible, indeed probable, areas of danger inherent in the mining processing and marketing of uranium products. Our technology is not yet sufficiently advanced to deal with all the known effects on human health and the environment of nuclear energy. 
Despite the pious expressions of the Bills that the Minister can take steps to 'control and eliminate hazards associated with the nuclear energy situation' I seriously question whether that is possible. I draw the attention of the Senate to some recent comments by  Sir Mark  Oliphant on the problems associated with radon gas. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  this week the column of  Sir Mark's  headed 'Question Marks over Uranium ' contained the following comments: 
The question I wish to ask is, however rich the ore, can it be mined, and converted into the saleable yellowcake of commerce, under Australian conditions? . . . 
Rich uranium ores contain a gram or more of the daughter substance of the slow radioactive decay of uranium, radium, together with all the subsequent radioactive substances it produces, including the gas radon. 
Radon is one of the rare gases, without chemical properties, and the only way to remove it from the environment is to freeze it out with a coolant like liquid air. The radon itself undergoes spontaneous radioactive decay into a series of substances, themselves radioactive, ending up finally as ordinary lead. 
Radon will be released into the air from the ore as it is mined, crushed, and dissolved in acid, while the other radioactive products of the radium series, being solid, will be present in any dust. All, in sufficient quantity, are potentially lethal. Dust masks should give reasonable protection against the solids, but cannot remove the radon. 
As with asbestosis, the effects of these low doses of radiation, which can be well below the officially prescribed limit, can be delayed for decades. 
If scientists of the eminence of  Sir Mark  Oliphant and others have these worries, worries which  Sir Mark  Oliphant concludes by pointing out are solvable but only under highly expensive economic procedures, I wonder that the Government is still seriously considering proceeding with the mining, the processing, and the marketing of uranium. 
I refer now to the much vaunted Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. I think it is worth observing that oaths and treaties have been broken since pre-history. They certainly will be again. Whilst necessity may well be the mother of invention, convenience is certainly the father of treaties. Treaties are as easy to break as they are to make; easier in fact. Anyone who ignores this is either a fool or a madman, or both. Treaties, whether on fishing rights or nuclear energy, are undertaken for political expediency only. Some countries are more likely to honour agreements than others; that is about the best that can be said. How anyone can believe that any pact made with that monster of the Philippines,  President  Marcos, or his wife or other associates, will be honoured is being nothing short of irresponsibly foolhardy. The same applies to any negotiations that the Government enters into with any unstable or dictatorial government- Iran, the Philippines or anywhere else. Recent negotiations that have been taking place in the Philippines concern an area which is known to be geophysically unstable, an area where volcanic eruptions are not unknown even at present. I refer honourable senators who care to validate those statements to Press reports in various newspapers in Australia in the last couple of months. The Manila area is most profitable for the Marcos regime, so there the plant will go. As far as the Philippines Government is concerned, the health and safety of its countrymen seem to be a secondary consideration to the profitability angle. I would hate to think that any Australian Government would endorse this sort of cavalier attitude in another country or adopt it here. Yet in sailing blindly ahead with the large scale mining, processing and marketing of uranium, even though there is no definite empirical evidence, wine notwithstanding, that the associated dangers can be minimised much less eliminated, the Government is coming perilously close to being justifiably accused of putting economics and economic considerations before the health and welfare of present and future generations of Australians. 
Having said that I oppose in principle the use of nuclear energy, the mining, processing and marketing of uranium, I want to go on to point out one or two other areas in which the Bills are contentious. This package of Bills is concerned with the implementation and effecting of the Government's policy for uranium mining development in Australia. It has been variously described in second reading speeches as honouring the Government's 'undertakings to the Australian people and the governments of the States and the Territories' and as being a carefully controlled and responsible measure for developing Australia's uranium resources. In essence, however, through the two Bills before us now, there is an unjustifiable attempt by the Federal Government to ride roughshod over the rights of States and individuals alike. Far from honouring the Government's undertakings to the Australian people and the governments of the States and Territories, the Government is proceeding quite against its declared policy, a policy declared in the Governor-General's Speech in the middle of February, of 'protecting the civil liberties of all Australians' and of intending 'to work in partnership with all groups'- not just the Peko/EZ group- in order to 'revitalise our Federal system by co-operating with State and local governments'. 
Whilst on the one hand mouthing pious sentiments about the need for consultation between State and Federal governments before codes are proclaimed or enforced, the Government has so worded the clauses of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill and the amendments to the Atomic Energy Act that, in fact, the States have no rights at all. The Premiers of several 
States have been quick to point this out. Clauses 8 and 11 of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill are cases in point. These are two of the most anti-States rights clauses ever put forward by a Federal government. These clauses aim at 'regulating or controlling nuclear activities in Australia'. They aim at Federal Government control of the mining, processing and exporting of nuclear materials in all States and Territories of this country. They offer, as something of a sop to State Ministers, the right to be furnished with a code or a proposed order and the opportunity to be consulted about that code. This much vaunted consultation right is not worth the paper it is printed on. Nowhere do the States get the right of veto or appeal. The consultation can be as perfunctory as the Federal Minister chooses and can take any form the Minister chooses notwithstanding what was said in the second reading speech- a telephone call, a telegram or a brief letter will do. Once this mere formality has been observed, the Federal Minister is at liberty to go ahead and do exactly what he and the Executive Government wanted in the first place. The arrogance of the Federal Government here is incredible. But it does not stop here. 
Any slight hope the States had that their wishes would be paramount to those of the Commonwealth is dashed totally by clause 1 1. This clause, which is concerned with regulations for carrying out or giving effect to codes of practice, totally prevents the States getting any satisfaction from any court should they be so foolish as to appeal against the behaviour of the Federal Government. Clause 1 1 gives complete powers of decision and regulation to the Executive and that is something not to be wished, and devoutly so. Criticism of these Bills is widespread and covers a wide range of factors. What the Government is trying to do by way of this legislation is reprehensible environmentally, as far as States' and individual rights are concerned, and presents very real prospects of health hazards not only to those people working in the mining and processing operations but also to anyone likely to come in contact with accidental or deliberate radiation now or in the future. 
On those grounds I am forced to oppose iiic Bills in their entirety and in fact to support the Opposition's amendment that the Bills bc deferred and not proceeded with until alter full and proper consultation with the States. In doing so I would like to remind honourable senators that they are here as States' representatives and. bearing in mind that the call for deferment and consultation comes from Premiers of manyStates and of both political persuasions, they would all do well to support the amendment and in fact to put their mouths where the Constitution is. 
-by leave- I wish to move two amendments to this motion. I move: 
Leave out sub-paragraph (1) (b), insert the following sub-paragraph: (l)(b) the 6 members of the Senate comprise 3 members of the Government parties and 3 members ofthe non-Government parties. '. 
Leave out paragraph (2), insert the following paragraph: (2)That- 
three senators, being members of the Government parties, nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate; 
three senators, being members of the nonGovernment parties, nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, by an independent senator or by a senator from any minority group or groups, be members of the delegation: Provided that nominations under sub-paragraph (b) shall be determined by agreement between the Opposition, the independent senators and senators from any minority group or groups, and, in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President,  the question as to the representation shall be determined by the Senate'. 

 Mr President, I think the two amendments are sufficiently closely allied to enable me to discuss them together. Is it necessary to seek leave? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and arises from an item in this morning's  Canberra Times  which gives the names of the delegates from the Senate to the Commonwealth Constitutional Convention. Is he aware that the motion relating to this matter is not due for debate by the Senate until later today? Does he credit the reporter concerned with clairvoyance or is the publication of this item an indication of the Government's intention in the future to issue to the Press statements regarding decisions of this Senate before those decisions have been made? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate say whether any running tally is kept of the number of citizens petitioning the Senate and /or the other place on any particular topic? Does he agree that the effort expended by many citizens of Australia in organising petitions is largely wasted since there seems to be neither a convention nor a standing order requiring the Senate or the Government to consider the matter raised in any petition or batch of petitions on a similar topic? Can he say what attention, if any, the Government pays to opinions expressed in petitions lodged in the Senate or in the other place? 
I second the amendment because I feel its contents are worthy of debate. Opportunity for such debate ought to be provided. I realise that because of my peculiar position here I have no right to talk at any great length about the contents of the Bill or about the virtues or otherwise of this amendment. Indeed, the fact that I am not entitled to any sort of superanuation no doubt will leave me wide open to criticism of one sort or another for supporting this amendment. Nevertheless I do so, taking that risk into account. 
I should like to point out to honourable senators that this amendment does not aim entirely at rejecting the contents of the Bill; it merely- I think fairly- moves for further consideration of the Bill 's contents. If nothing else is achieved by the Senate's support of this amendment it will remove any impression in the minds of the public that this Parliament has pushed the Bill through with undignified haste and, possibly, avariciousness. I do not wish to speak at length, I merely ask that the Senate give due consideration to this amendment today. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Wright's)  be agreed to. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Education by reminding him of a letter he wrote to me on 26 April relating to the Adelaide Aboriginal Community College. In that letter the Minister indicated his support for the initiatives taken in Aboriginal education by that College and noted the funding problems faced by it. He undertook to seek advice from the Tertiary Education Commission and his colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs with regard to those problems. Can the Minister give some indication of the progress of the consultations he has had with the TEC and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs with regard to the provision of long-term funding for the College? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  In doing so I should like to speak very briefly on several questions - 
-I said 'very briefly',  Senator. I  am noted for speaking very briefly. I should like to speak very briefly on several questions that have been raised during discussions both on the Bill and on the amendment. I trust I am in order in doing so. The first question to consider is: When is a tax avoidance scheme fair and acceptable and when is it not? This question was canvassed at some length, and I, might say, very nicely, in the Shakespearean sense of the word, by  Senator Lewis  earlier this week. But to me, the answer is that it is not fair and acceptable when that scheme is available only to a small and very wealthy section of the community who, in taking advantage of a scheme which is undeniably legal but of doubtful morality, could place an additional burden on the average taxpayer who cannot avail himself of that scheme. 
The second question that has come before the Senate is: When is a warning not a warning? This is a question which can be bandied about forever. Probably it is less a legal question than a semantic one. In August 1977, the then Treasurer announced that the Government intended to close certain loopholes in the taxation laws. That he did not enumerate these loopholes is to my mind irrelevant. Those people who gambled on the Curran scheme and other schemes took a deliberate risk- a risk that any gambler takes. They were playing for high stakes and should have been prepared to lose their bets and accept that their gamble did not pay off. Indeed, I cannot accept in this instance  Senator Rae's  contention that these people should not be inconvenienced by government intervention in the 1977-78 business ventures. They were warned that intervention was not only possible but also likely in certain areas. Yet they were still determined to take the gamble. In the event, they lost. I have precious little sympathy for them. 
-I am coming to that. I have little sympathy for them, particularly when it is realised that they will suffer not any real loss but an illusory one which arises merely out of greedy dreams. I indicate to  Senator Chaney  that the third matter is the one which prompts me to support  Senator Rae's  amendment. Should discretion be allowed, when the loopholes are closed, as to which loopholes are closed retrospectively and which are not? That part of the Bill which  Senator Rae  is attempting to amend seeks to backdate to August 1 977 the provisions which relate only to the Curran scheme. I gather that the Bill seeks to close the other loopholes only from April 1978. To me it ought to be a case of all seven or none of them being made retrospective. Since the Government has elected to discriminate in the retrospectivity of its legislation, I support the amendment. I indicate that in doing so, since half a loaf is generally considered better than none and, I presume, that one-seventh falls into much the same category, I intend to support the Bill as it stands in the event of the amendment being lost. 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, by reminding her that the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections, which I believe was instigated by the Labor Government on 10 April 1974, brought down its report in 1975. 1 remind the Minister also that the LiberalNational Country Party Government subsequently set up an interdepartmental committee to look into the recommendations made in the report. Can the Minister say whether the IDC has yet reported to the Government? If it has not. can the Minister say when it is likely to do so? If it has, can the Minister say when, or if, its report and the recommendations contained therein arc likely to be made public? 
