-These Bills, like the other 4 Bills under consideration in this first Joint Sitting, have been before each House of the Parliament on 3 previous occasions. These proposed laws do not deal with the rights of political parties; they deal with the rights of our people. In the Government's view the right of representation in the national Parliament is a fundamental right that belongs inalienably to all the people of Australia. This right is emphasised in Article 22 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states: 
Everyone has the right to take pan in the Government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives. 
It also goes on to say: 
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of Government. This will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage, and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures. 
In our view that universality should embrace the Senate. The privilege of electing representatives to the Senate has been exercised by voters in 6 States since Federation. It should be a privilege open to all Australian voters whether they live in States or territories. The effect of these proposals will be to give representation in the Senate to the 140,000 voters in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. After the Bills were twice in each House the then GovernorGeneral on 1 1 April this year dissolved the Senate and the House of Representatives simultaneously. Those Bills were among the proposed laws that  Sir Paul  Hasluck took into account in granting the double dissolution requested by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  At the election on 18 May the people of this country returned the Government to office. 
In his policy speech the Prime Minister drew the attention of the electors to the Government's efforts to have these Bills passed, along with the other 4 Bills that are being considered, at our Joint Sitting. The Prime Minister pointed out that the Opposition had continually denied representation in the Senate to the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. When the Parliament reassembled a month ago these Bills, along with the other 4 Bills, came before each of the Houses for a third time. The result was the same. The Opposition parties continued to deny representation in the Senate to the people of the 2 Territories. The deadlock persisted. The Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, convened this Joint Sitting of the members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives on Tuesday last week. A further attempt was made in the past few days in the High Court of Australia to prevent the enactment of this Bill, along with the other 5 Bills, into law. That attempt to stop the proceedings that are taking place here in Parliament today, I am pleased to report, has failed. After all these frustrations we have now come together to deliberate upon the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill and to enact them as laws of this Parliament. 
This is a simple democratic measure. Representation of the people in the national Parliament lies at the heart of democratic government. The principle was recognised by those who framed the Australian Constitution. For example, in section 24 the Constitution provides that the House of Representatives should be comprised of members directly chosen by the people. Why should the people of the Northern Territory and of the Australian Capital Territory be denied representation in both Houses of the Parliament? They have long since been represented in the chamber in which we meet today. Their representatives in this chamber have full voting rights along with all the other members who meet in it. 
At the instance of the Government the people of the Australian Capital Territory now have 2 members in the House of Representatives enjoying full voting rights. That is as it should be. Why then deny the people of the 2 Territories representation in the Senate? It is a minimum requirement of democracy that they should be so represented. The arguments for this course are overwhelming. They have been stated over and over again during the long series of debates that have preceded this Joint Sitting. Those who drew up our Constitution felt so keenly about the representation of the people that they expressly did not follow the example of the United States Constitution. The American Constitution did not allow the Territories to send members to Congress but simply permitted the Territories to send delegates to Congress who could speak but not vote. 
When the Australian Constitution was adopted there were no Territories but it is quite clear that the establishment of Territories was in the minds of the framers of the Constitution. Section 122 of the Constitution provides that Parliament may allow the representation of Territories in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which the Parliament thinks fit. In the most recent debate on this matter in the Senate the Opposition Parties sought to argue that the Bill was unconstitutional. In keeping with the pattern of obstruction which has persisted with regard to all these measures for more than a year, the Opposition moved to have this particular Bill referred to a select committee of the Senate. This committee was to inquire into whether the provisions of the Bill were consistent with the Constitution. Plainly this was no more than a stalling device. In the Government's view the Bill is entirely consistent with the Constitution. 
The Representation Bill is a companion to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. Its main purpose is to amend the formula in the Representation Act under which the number of members of the House of Representatives for the several States is determined so as to ensure that the existing nexus between the number of members of the House of Representatives and the number of senators is maintained. Section 24 of the Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth and the number of members shall be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators. Section 24 further provides that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the numbers of their people. The section goes on to specify the manner in which that number is to be determined until the Parliament otherwise provides. The Parliament has otherwise provided by the Representation Act. 
Section 24 of the Constitution does not, in our view, apply to senators for a Territory; that is, in meeting the requirement in section 24 for the number of members of the House of Representatives to be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators, Territory senators are not to be counted. The formula under section 10 of the Representation Act for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States sets out that a quota shall be ascertained by dividing the number of people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators. The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people in the State by the quota. If, on such division, there is a remainder, one more member shall be chosen in the State. 
Clause 3 of the Bill makes it clear that in applying the formula provided under section 10 of the Act the people of the Commonwealth are the people of the 6 States and do not include the people of any Territory. Clause 5 of the Bill, which substitutes the words 'senators for the States' for the word 'senators' makes it clear that Territory senators are excluded from the formula for determining the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. Thus, consistent with section 24 of the Constitution', the introduction of Territory senators will not affect the representation of the States in the House of Representatives. The opportunity is also being taken to amend the Act in certain minor respects. 

 Mr Chairman, if this national Parliament is to be truly national it should represent all the nation in both Houses. If our Parliament is to continue to be an institution able and willing to initiate and carry through the necessary economic and social reforms it will need the support of all our people. If it is to continue as an institution of free speech, able and willing to face the challenges it is meeting from elsewhere to its capacity, its authority and even to its freedom of debate it will need the support of all our people. To have that, at least all of those people should be represented in both Houses. The Territories should be allowed their representatives in the Senate. I commend the Bill to members of both Houses of Parliament. 
