Does the Minister for Trade and Industry recall informing the House that he had first put proposals for an industry development corporation to the Cabinet in 1966 and 1967? On 14th May last year he said that the proposal was in a state of suspended animation. Can he now inform the House of the factors or arguments which have operated in Cabinet since May 1969 to bring about a remarkable change which apparently has now led to the decision to establish this corporation? Are the reports justified that indicate that this is simply a token given to the Minister by the Prime Minister as a mark of their victory over the former Treasurer, who is now the Minister for External Affairs? 
Has the Minister for Defence noted a statement by the New Zealand Minister for Defence that the South Vietnamese Government is ready to take over operations in the Phuoc Tuy Province? Does he agree with this statement? If he does not agree, will he say why he does not? If he does agree with it, will he say why Australian troops  would  not then soon be withdrawn from Vietnam? 
1 ask the Minister for Trade and' Industry a question. Does the Minister recall the Tariff Board's announcement that a 50% effective rate should be an appropriate ceiling for tariffs in Australia and does he recall the widespread concern and opposition in industry that this announcement produced? Did he then give a clear impression that the Government would not accept this as a general rule but would make decisions itself? Would he agree that the Tariff Board's recommendations in the case of man-made fibres and yams appears to be an application of this 50% ceiling by the Tariff Board and it will be widely understood to be such by industry? If this is not so, will the Minister say why he considers it is not consistent with this rule and will he say what reasons he has, apart from the Tariff Board's recommendations, to reach an independent judgment, for believing that the tariff recommended in the report and accepted by the Government will not seriously embarrass economic and efficient sections of the industry? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I take a point of order. I do not wish to interfere with the rights of the honourable member for Mallee, but this is a second reading speech if ever 1 have heard one. There are members on this side of the House who wish to say certain things. Our opportunities to do so have been restricted. I think that the Standing Orders ought to be applied. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Mallee again, as I pointed out previously, that, in a speech on the third reading of a Bill, an honourable member must not introduce new matter which has not been debated already. The comments made by the honourable member were more in relation to the second reading stage of the Bill than in relation to the third reading stage of the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. In view of what the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said I wish to avail myself of any opportunity to deny his allegations. 
Yes. Some years ago the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  claimed that I had spoken at a meeting from the platform occupied by a member of the Communist Party. Today the Prime Minister said that the Leader of the House, in making that claim, had made only a slight mistake - that in fact a member of the Communist Party had spoken from the platform before or at some other time and that this was the only thing wrong with the statement made by the Leader of the House. In fact no member of the Communist Party spoke from the platform at any time or at that meeting at all There happened to be a member of the Communist Party in the audience. I suppose even the Prime Minister has had a member of the Communist Party in his audience on occasions but I should imagine that anybody with any discrimination might not attend the right honourable gentleman's meetings at all. The Prime Minister and the Leader of the House must have had some opportunity to check these facts. They were put before the House at the time. The then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, accepted the facts that were put and the suspension of 24 hours that had been imposed upon me for calling the Minister for Labour and National Service a liar was, for the only time in the history of this House, I think, lifted. The Leader of the House, who was then a Minister, was brought into the chamber almost under escort by the then AttorneyGeneral and the then Prime Minister to make a very meek and mild withdrawal of his accusations. 
The point is that I have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister, who should know better if he has had any consultations on this matter with the Leader of the House. No member of the Communist Party spoke from that platform in the course of that meeting. This fact was made perfectly clear at the time. The Leader of the House must know this. If he has given any other impression to the Prime Minister he has knowingly misled him. If the Prime Minister got his information from anywhere else he is following his usual course of accepting rumours and misleading statements as facts in order to launch attacks on members of the Opposition. 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor)- I wish to make a personal explanation arising out of what the right honourable gentleman has just said. 
Yes. 
I am not debating it at all. I am simply claiming to have been misrepresented by what the right honourable gentleman said since I sat down. I am asking for an opportunity to make a personal explanation about that. 
Thank you. The Prime Minister inferred that I have the habit of making mistakes, which had the overtone that I would do it deliberately. He said that he is going to check on this and eventually make a report to this House on what he finds. This is a misrepresentation of my position and I challenge the Prime Minister to produce any evidence whatever to support it. 
That 1 am in the habit of making mistakes on matters of this kind and that I would do it deliberately. That is the overtone that he gave to mislead the House. That is a misrepresentation. I ask him to take up the statement he has just made without any delay and report to the House on his findings. 

 Mr GORTON (Higgins- Prime Minister) - 1 wish to make a personal explanation. I feel I have been misrepresented in that the honourable member for Yarra has read overtones into what I said which were not there; but I also feel I have been misrepresented and would like to answer a question that he asked me as to inaccuracies because I think that only about a fortnight ago he made a statement that 1 was in a scuffle with  Senator Willesee  about 2 years ago. He is about 10 years out, if I remember, which seems to be some indication that it is not accurate. 
An amendment is an alteration proposed or made in a motion or Bill It must take the form of a proposal to (a) omit certain words, (b) omit certain words to insert or add other words, or (c) insert or add other words (S.0.171). It is permissible, by way of amendment, to move to leave out ali the words of a motion except the initial word That' and substitute other words relevant to the motion. 
On page 24 it goes on to say: 
Every amendment must be relevant to the question which it is proposed to amend (S.0.173), except that irrelevant amendments may be moved to the second reading of Appropriation and Supply Bills and to the Grievance Day question. 
I further quote from May's 'Parliamentary Practice'. At page 416, on the chapter headed 'Amendments to be relevant' it is stated: 
The fundamental rule that debate must be relevant to a question necessarily involves the rule that every amendment must be relevant to the question on which the amendment is proposed. 
Stated generally, no matter ought to be raised in debate on a question which would be irrelevant, if moved as an amendment, and an amendment cannot be used for importing arguments which would be irrelevant to the main question. Thus, the  Speaker  has ruled that on the third reading of a bill (a stage on which debate is limited to the contents of the bill) a reasoned amendment should not urge the rejection of the bill on the ground of what it omits. The effect of moving an amendment is, rather, to restrict the field of debate which would otherwise be open on a question. This is not obvious in the case of the type of amendment which proposes to leave out all the words of a question and substitute a different (but of course relevant) proposition. But it is true even in this case. For such an amendment, by concentrating debate on the main question and the amendment as alternative propositions, lends to exclude the consideration of other relevant alternatives. 
It would be impracticable to attempt here to classify of the grounds on which amendments have been held to be irrelevant to a question. Some examples are given in connection with specialised forms of procedure such as bills particularly in committee, votes in supply and business motions. 
The  Speaker  has ruled that to a question declaring the expediency of establishing a tribunal for the purpose of inquiring into a definite matter of urgent public importance, which followed the directions of the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act, 1921, an amendment to add another subject for inquiry would not be relevant, but an amendment relating to the constitution of the tribunal has been allowed. 
It was not until comparatively recent times that the House would consent to be bound by the obligation of relevancy which it had imposed on its committees. 
An illustration may be given of the former licence in amendments. To the question for the Speaker's leaving the chair for the committee on the Reform Bill, 16 August 1831, an amendment was moved for the production of papers on the state of Poland: and on an analogous proceeding, 9 May 1834, the  Speaker  stated that, according to the forms of the House and the law of Parliament, there was no necessity that an amendment should be akin to the question. 
I suggest that standing order 173, the relevant portions that I have read from the Business and Procedures of the House of 
Representatives' and the portion I have read from May's 'Parliamentary Practice' shows clearly that this is an irrelevant amendment. It allows for new subjects to be brought into this debate and changes the whole subject matter of the original motion. It is a complete and utter political trick. It is one,  Mr Speaker,  that you, in upholding the dignity of your office, must recognise as such. You must appreciate that the Opposition has not blamed you at all for the situation that developed last evening. The Opposition today is endeavouring to nail to the wall the Minister who was responsible for the completely dictatorial manner in which the Opposition has been treated in this House. 
We have taken the initiative in this matter, as my colleague said, because we want to draw attention to what we regard as the extraordinary way in which the business of the House is being conducted by the person whom the Government has chosen to designate as its Leader of the House. It is our Censure. Honourable members opposite have the right to vote against it but they do not have the right to put in its place another censure motion. I submit that if this so-called amendment is allowed to stand - and it is surely a sacred right for members of the Parliament to move a censure motion - it will make a farce of any censure motion around a particular subject in the future. 
We are in effect being asked to debate 2 issues at once. The second issue raised is not an amendment. It is not entirely a negative, because such a proposition cannot be effectively negatived. The House has before it a proposition to decide in terms of numbers whether it should censure the Leader of the House. I submit it is erroneous altogether to submit that you,  Mr Speaker,  can allow as a reasoned amendment an amendment which brings into the matter a different name altogether. I am one who is proud of the institution of Parliament, as you know,  Mr Speaker.  1 regard you as the custodian and the keeper of the rights of the House. At times things can get strained on more sides than one, and there may be very relevant reasons for their becoming strained. We have taken the chance today to submit our opinion that certain relations became strained last night. That is the proposition we want to have debated. I submit that if the Government wants to move a censure motion against the Leader of the Opposition it should be brought in as a separate measure. I submit that it cannot be moved as an amendment to the proposition that has been put in the way in which it has been put. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - I think it is very clear on what the honourable member for Chisholm has said that he is confusing 2 ways of submitting his argument. It is perfectly legitimate for him to say that the cause of the trouble last night was not the Leader of the House but was the Leader of the Opposition. He may do so in this debate, as may the Prime Minister or anyone else who wants to speak in it. But the only question at issue is whether it is correct to move that proposition as an amendment. There is no question other than that. The authorities that have been consulted - our own Standing Orders and May - indicate that this is not the case. When the conduct of one member of Parliament is in issue, the authorities state that that matter must be confined to the conduct of the member concerned and that it is quite improper and irrelevant to say it was not Smith who is to blame but it was Jones. Two censure motions cannot be moved at the one time, nor can any Parliament be expected properly to determine 2 censures at the one time. 
The essential feature of this procedure is that the Opposition has moved a censure motion and the House has to determine whether that censure is justified or not. In ascertaining whether it is justified no-one is entitled to move an amendment saying that somebody else ought to be censured. The one issue should be decided first in a very narrow and restricted procedural way, although the argument can go anywhere. The argument can be that someone else was to blame, but the blame cannot be attached to that person procedurally while a first issue is still being debated. The authorities that have been quoted at length by honourable members from this side of the House are not authorities we need to look at any more. The Minister for Education and Science made no reference whatever to them. He made no attempt to show that what the honourable member for Lang had said was wrong or in any way inaccurate. I submit that on the authorities the argument is clear, and there should be no doubt in the minds of anyone in this House what procedure we should follow. We should deal with the censure against the Leader of the House, and if anyone on the other side of the House wants to censure anyone else he will have ample time and opportunity to do it when this matter is disposed of. 
The effect of moving an amendment is, rather, to restrict the field of debate which would otherwise be open on a question. Thi; is not obvious in the case of the type of amendment which proposes to leave out all the words of a question and substitute a different (but of course relevant) proposition. But it is true even in this case. For such an amendment, by concentrating debate on the main question and the amendment as alternative propositions, tends to exclude the consideration of other relevant alternatives. 
It seems to me that the proposition put by May in this case has a complete relevance to the question at present before the Chair because it is clear for the reasons that the Minister for Education and Science gave earlier in the debate that what we are in substance talking about is the incident in the 
House last night. That is clear indeed from the terms of the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition in introducing his motion. 
I put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  by way of illustration that if we were to propose a motion of censure against the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for failing, among other things, to cancel the Fill contract on favourable terms it would be appropriate, if the present amendment before the House is accepted as appropriate, to move by way of amendment that not the Minister for Defence but Joe Bloggs should be censured for our failure to cancel that contract on favourable terms, Joe Bloggs being the lawyer on our side who allowed us to enter into that contract on unfavourable terms. That amendment would have nothing to do with the area of responsibility with which the House was then concerned. In that case we would be directing the attention of the House to the responsibility of the Minister, and questions as to what someone else said would be irrelevant. 
In this case we are directing the attention of the House not to the events in the House last night but to the conduct of the Leader of the House not only last night but on other occasions. The events of last night were only brought in by way of illustration and are by no means central to the motion proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Debate interrupted. 
I do not think that has to be the reasoning behind a ruling in this case. It seems to me the cases quoted from May indicate that when the conduct of a person or persons is in question before a tribunal - the same principle should apply to the House - that matter has to be decided exclusive of other matters and it is not legitimate for anyone to assert some other question involving a lack of confidence or censure of the conduct of some other person or persons. This is my understanding of what May has to say. I think the only question you have to decide is whether the principle stated in May is a principle that should apply to this House as well as to other bodies. I submit it should. If it is possible to answer a motion of censure moved upon a person by shifting the ground completely to the examination of the conduct of some other person, as a form of procedure, the object of the initial motion is defeated altogether. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 think the purpose of moving the amendment is to make it possible for members of this House to avoid voting on the censure that has been moved in the House. In other words, the purpose of this amendment is not to suggest some view which may deviate in some degree from the motion; it is a complete alternative. It has no relevance to the motion at all. It directs the attention of the House completely away from the motion and to something else. It would allow any member of the House who may be willing to vote to censure the Minister to avoid doing so by voting for an amendment that wants to censure somebody else. That is the precise purpose behind the moving of this amendment. Therefore 1 submit that it is out of order and it is not made in order by arguing that it is not a motion under standing order 110. This is not an argument that would allow the amendment to be accepted. The motion does not have to come within standing order 110 to allow the principle that has been expounded in May to apply to it. It does not have to be under standing order 1 1 0 to allow the argument that this in terms of our Standing Orders is not an amendment relevant to the motion at all but is a totally different question. It allows the House to vote on a totally different question and therefore avoid the whole content and meaning of the motion. I submit this makes the amendment completely out of order and makes your ruling that it is in order an incorrect ruling. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Does the honourable member for Lalor claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has misrepresented me and I desire to make a personal explanation. The honourable member showed just how far he will go in making the most injurious accusations he can think of without knowing the facts and without caring- 
The honourable member said that when the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  refused to leave the chamber he saw the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  shouting and banging the table and behaving like a pair of apes. When this happened I was not in the chamber. I did not come back into the chamber until at least 5 minutes after the honourable member for Wills had refused to leave it. The truth is that I left the House with the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I had a cup of tea with him. During the whole time that the incident was happening I was not in the chamber. I did not return to the chamber until long after  Mr Speaker  had left the Chair. I took no part in what happened. I would not go to the trouble of putting this information before the House in other circumstances. I do not care what the honourable member for La Trobe thinks, but at that time I was not in here. The honourable member for La Trobe has told a lie and I want him to withdraw it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER(Mr Drury)I ask the honourable member for Lalor whether he will withdraw the word. 
I think now is the time for the honourable member for La Trobe to say something. If he says what I think he will say - that is if he has learned something as a result of making a recent inquiry - I will take certain action. But I think it is up to him now. 
I want to hear from the honourable member for La Trobe before I will withdraw. 
Wills was named- '. What I meant to say is: 'When the honourable member for Wills was named and was still in the House.' That was over a period of an hour or more. I am not talking about5 minutes later or at the split second. I am talking about when he was named and was in the House. He remained in the House for some time after having been named. I still say exactly what I said before as to the actions of the honourable member for Lalor. 
I am not at all satisfied with that explanation. 
I had better be! What are you going to do if I am not? Will you bring in the police?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I listened very carefully to what the honourable member for La Trobe said and took a note of it. He said that he saw the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Reid shouting and banging on the table like a pair of apes at the time when the honourable member for Wills refused to leave the House. That is precisely what he said. At that time I was absent from the House and I was still absent for at least 5 minutes after that time. I want a withdrawal of that statement. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS - I do not desire to substitute any word. I have asked the honourable member for La Trobe to withdraw a false accusation. He has refused to do so. Consequently I have no intention of withdrawing anything. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe) -  Mr Deputy Speaker- 
I will say that the honourable member for La Trobe did not tell a lie. 
Right 
Tonight we have seen how supporters of the Government are willing to make injurious accusations against members on this side of the House without taking the slightest care to ascertain whether they are true or not. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  said tonight that I had been shouting and banging the table when the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  refused to leave the House. The truth is that I was not in the House at the time and I was not here for some 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour after that incident happened. When I got back to the House the  Speaker  was out of the Chair. Everything was silent and nothing- was happening. The honourable member for La Trobe does not bother to take any care to ascertain the troth. He just churns out his accusations almost by habit. This is becoming a characteristic feature of the Government and its supporters. It is a very common characteristic of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and of course of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden). 
Earlier today the Prime Minister chose quite deliberately to say that when the Minister for Labour and National Service  a  few years ago alleged that I had spoken at a meeting on the same platform as a member of the Communist Party he had been wrong only in that a member of the Communist Party had spoken on the platform some time before I did. I immediately followed the Prime Minister and said that no member of the Communist Party had spoken from the platform at any time during that meeting. The accusation that the Minister for Labour and National Service had made led me to call him a liar, and I was suspended from the House for so doing. The following day the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, told me that the Minister was ready to withdraw and that I would be re-admitted to the House before the end of my suspension. Immediately after the 2 o'clock call, with hardly a member on the Government side of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service came in with  Sir Robert  Menzies on one side and  Sir Garfield  Barwick on the other side. They walked him up to the table. He made his withdrawal. I was admitted to the House at about 10 past 2 that day, with more than half the day's suspension still to go. That is what happened. Why, if there was not something seriously wrong with the Minister's accusation was this action taken? 
I explained that today in my personal explanation, in the presence of the Prime Minister, who then chose to rise again and say, as best I can recall - I have not had access to the greens - something about my having a record of making mistakes. At the same time he inferred that I would do so deliberately. He said that he would now check to see whether or not I had done so in this case - in the case of the accusation that I have just described and which was dealt with by  Sir Robert  Menzies as Prime Minister in the way which I have described. The Prime Minister said that he would check on that occasion to ascertain whether or not that was another time, that I might have made a mistake, the implication being that I was willing to make mistakes to mislead the House, and that I had done so in this case. I see the Prime Minister nodding assent to that interpretation, or was he nodding his head for some other reason? 
The Prime Minister chose to make this statement. He said that he would check to see whether or not I had done so in this case - in the case of this accusation - to ascertain whether or not I had misled the House in some way in saying that I had not spoken from the same platform as a member of the Communist Party. He said that he would inform the House of what he found out. This means that the Prime Minister of Australia has accused me of being prepared to make mistakes which may, conveniently, give a wrong impression to the House. That is putting it lightly. At the same time he said: 'Look, I do not know whether or not this is an example of it, but I will go out and check'. He is prepared to make the accusation first and then to promise to go out and check the facts later. 
This is not the first time that he has done this. He did it last week but made no attempt to check the facts. He made  a  public attack - based on a newspaper report, I presume, which was inaccurate and which was wrong in every quoted particular. As a result of that report I twice telephoned the newspaper concerned. No correction was published in that newspaper, but correct statements were published in other newspapers under letters over my signature and in other ways. Presumably the right honourable gentleman was prepared to go on the national news network and make accusations about storm troopers and anarchy and so on without going to the trouble to check whether or not the report that he had seen in the newspaper, or which some member of his staff had brought to his notice, was accurate, lt was not accurate. He made the accusation that I mention now about 3.30 this afternoon. That is about 9 hours ago. He said that he would check, after he made the accusation, to see whether or not there was anything in it. 1 want to know now whether or not he has checked the facts as to whether J spoke on this occasion from the same platform as a member of the Communist Party or whether I did not. J would like to know whether or not he has gone to the trouble, in the hours he has had since he made the accusation, to try to find out whether or not 1 spoke from the same platform as a member of the Communist Party on this occasion. Some time ago I sent a message to his office to inform him that I intended to speak now. I suppose that is why he is here. I ask him now: Has he made any inquiries and, if he has, what has he found out? If he has not yet made any inquiries 1 should like him to tell us why he has not done so. 
In his statement today the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  said very little that could be pinned down to facts at all, but he did say one thing that could be pinned down. He said that I had said that the United States moratorium had been peaceful. The Minister went on to say that the Moratorium Campaign was violent, that extensive damage had been done and more than 100 people had been injured. 
I am speaking about Washington. He said that what he said was truthful and that what I said was not, and he went on to embellish it by saying that my departures from the facts on this point could do nothing but detract from my reputation, the more so as I am given to claiming an intimate knowledge of this subject. What are the facts? The Minister made no reference to them. He made no mention of authority for his assertion. 
I have a copy of the 'New York Times' for 16th November 1969. The headline reads: '250,000 War Protesters Stage Peaceful Rally in Washington; Militants Stir Clashes Later'. Then the details of this are given as follows: 
At dusk, after the mass demonstration had ended, a small segment of the crowd, members of radical splinter groups, moved across Constitution Avenue to the Labour and Justice Department buildings where they burned United States flags, threw paint bombs and other missiles and were repelled by tear gas released by the police. There were a number of arrests and minor injuries, mostly the result of the tear gas. 
It seems to me that where we can pin the Attorney-General down as we can in this case, his statements do not stand up to examination, but for the great part of his statement it is quite impossible to pin him down to anything. The argument by the Attorney-General is that the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is not genuine - that it is not made up of people who genuinely feel strongly about what they are doing; they do not really know what they are doing.  His  argument is that it is the result of influences from overseas without which, in effect, there would be no campaign at all. 
The Minister may not know how people feel about this war in Vietnam. He may not even know how people feel about conscription, but there is a very deeply felt opposition to what is happening in Vietnam and to conscription of young Australians without a fair principle of conscientious objection. There is a deeply felt opposition to all that the Government does. I concede the Minister may not even know this but there is a very deeply felt opposition in the community to the Government. There is a deeply felt opposition in the world to what is happening in Vietnam. This opposition includes Hanoi and Peking and Moscow but it also includes U Thant, Madame Pandit, the Pope, thirty American senators and many leaders in almost every country in the world and in almost every political party in the world except this one of the Australian Government. 
Recently, the 'Australian' not only recorded Cardinal Cushing's stand in America against the war in Vietnam but stated 'Cardinal Joins United States drive against war' and reported that he had supported the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in Washington last October. Opposition is intensive and it is international. There need to be no suggestions from Hanoi or Peking to bring out this opposition. Nothing that the Attorney-General has said is based on fact or evidence. No facts or evidence have ever been given by himself or any of his predecessors to support their assertions of links with Peking or some other place. There is no need for any conspiracy theory to explain the opposition to what is being done in Vietnam. It exists all round the world. It is only in Australia that this Communist conspiracy theory is ever put forward by responsible people. In most other countries a person is given credit for his views on any matter at all and these views are examined on their merits. But that does not happen here. The favourite manoeuvre of practically everyone on the Government benches who speaks of the opposition on these matters is to divert it to a question of Communist influence and Communist association. Hardly ever is the argument put forward treated on its merits. If this Communist conspiracy is not the explanation for it, as I believe it is not, what then is the explanation for opposition to this war? It can be found in what is happening in Vietnam. 
Vietnam is a small peasant country that has suffered foreign occupation for over 130 years and a movement to resist it has existed unbrokenly for all those long years. That movement resisted and fought French occupation from 1847 to 1941 and suffered severe and appalling casualties. Perhaps 500,000 people were killed by bullets and bombs and millions died directly as a result of the war. The Vietnamese were deprived of human dignity, even of human identity, and were demeaned and depraved by the war. Then between 1941 and 1945 Vietnam was treated as a mere pawn in the game of big power by the Soviet Union, China, America and Britain. There was no Atlantic Charter for Vietnam. 
Then when the Vietnamese movement for national independence had become so strong that the French were forced to recognise it, they immediately began a campaign to undermine and destroy it. In this campaign from 1946 to 1954 about 550,000 Vietnamese, mostly civilians, were killed and as many were maimed and wounded. But the Vietnamese won their battles against the French and for a short time they appeared to have won their independence. Then they were deprived of it by a big power arrangement at Geneva. Then the world's greatest industrial and military power, America, stepped into the shoes of the French - with the expressed intention of holding as much as possible of Vietnam under its control. 
And so the fighting went on. Between 1946 and 1970 perhaps as many as 250,000 armed Vietnamese have been killed and 350,000 civilians have also been killed by bullets and bombs in South Vietnam alone. As many as 90,000, mostly civilians, in North Vietnam have been killed. Much of the rest of the country has been burned and bombed half-way back to the Stone Age. In South Vietnam what is not some kind of den of corruption is a brothel. That is what has been done for Vietnam and that is why the opposition to the war is natural and understandable. 
There is intense and widespread opposition to the death and destruction. It needs no messages or control from Hanoi or Peking. Is it surprising that there is intense opposition to what has happened in Vietnam from students, workers and all sorts of people all around Australia and in every country of the world? There is surely a limit to the number of human beings anyone will kill - even if they are coloured, foreign and Communist - to achieve any particular purpose. What is the limit in Vietnam? Is there any limit? It is not those who oppose the war who are in such a strange position that they should have to explain their conduct. It is not those who oppose the war who need some international system of obedience and orders, or rewards and benefits to explain their conduct. It is the supporters of the war in Vietnam who need to explain what they do. It is not they who are responding to orders from abroad. 
It is not those who act as they do because they feel that what is happening in Vietnam is wrong who should explain their conduct. It is not those who resist conscription for military service who need to explain their conduct. It is for those to explain their conduct who conscript others whilst they avoid any cost, inconvenience or embarrassment for themselves, and who as well gain votes, profit and promotion from their militaristic attitudes and policies. Opposition to the war in Vietnam and to conscription for it is a normal and natural way of feeling about a situation which is possessed by tens of thousands of normal human beings who need no conspiracies from overseas or anywhere else to explain their conduct. 
A question now arises: What is such a person expected to do if he feels this way? Is he expected to retire into apathy and disinterest? The answer to this question requires an understanding of what democracy is. Some people seem to think that democracy is just Parliament alone. They seem to think that all the ordinary citizen has to do is to vote once every 2 or 3 years and then leave everything to the Constitution and to those who happen to be elected to Parliament. But times are changing. A whole generation is not prepared to accept this complacent, conservative theory. Parliament is not democracy. It is one of the manifestations of democracy and it can become a most important manifestation of democracy if people are prepared to come out of their apathy and do something about it. What has to be done is not merely to refuse to talk politics or religion, as is almost the general custom, to vote once very 2 or 3 years and leave everything to those who win seats in Parliament. This is the way to make Parliament a hollow ritual and a fraud, which it has recently been called by leading journalists who observe its proceedings. This is the way to make it a fossilised institution and into a talking shop - or, even worse, into a talking shop which is hamstrung by rules and gagged by men who seek to run it as if it were a government department, a factory or a departmental store. 
The weaknesses of Parliament have been widely recognised. They will not be cured by accusations of anarchy and mob rule whenever anyone decides to do something about it. Democracy is government by the people, and government by the people demands action by the people. It demands effective ways of showing what the interests and needs of the people really are. It demands action in public places all around the land. The authorities of today are not accustomed to that. The laws restrict this action, and governments panic and even stimulate fear and insecurity. 
I believe that in normal circumstances action by the people should be peaceful, inoffensive and dignified. We can guarantee that only if fair and reasonable outlets are available for protest and dissent. They are not available today, and so no-one can guarantee that result in those circumstances. I deplore violence and repudiate anyone who initiates it or deliberately uses it. I think I may be able to claim to have more power to modify it in political affairs than perhaps anyone else in Australia. But J live also in the radical tradition and I have learnt more of that tradition in the United States of America than anywhere else. Recently Professor Staughton Lynd wrote about the principles of 200 years of American radicalism in these words: 
The proper foundation for government is a universal law of right and wrong self-evident to the intuitive commonsense of every man; that freedom is a power of personal self-direction which no man can delegate to another; that the purpose of society is not the protection of property but fulfilment of the needs of living human beings; that good citizens have the right and duty, not only to overthrow incurably oppresive governments, but before that point is reached to break particular oppressive laws; and that we owe our ultimate allegiance, not to this or that nation, but to the whole family of man. 
Professor Staughton Lynd wrote that as a summary of the great American tradition of radicalism, which is my political philosophy. This radical tradition is the very opposite of authoritarianism and centralism and, being that, is the very antithesis of Communism. But this radical tradition has no room for witch hunting or the creation of political pariahs. In a given situation Communists can be right. If they are right I will never say that they are wrong. If a Communist stands for something that is right and if that thing concerns me I will stand with him for that thing. Communists believe that it is right to oppose the war in Vietnam. I believe that it is right to oppose the war in Vietnam. I will oppose the war in Vietnam with anyone who opposes it. I will not be deterred from doing so by threats or pressures or intimidation. I sincerely hope that no-one else will be deterred. Communists can be a threat to democracy, but threats to democracy in Australia come from a different direction. They come from some of those who can draw upon all the traditional and conventional values and who, because of their status and authority, can make people look over their shoulder, lapse into silence in the presence of injustice and sneak off out of sight. It is not Communists in Australia who can silence people, who can sack and fail to promote. It is not. in Australia, Communists who can set up a system described a long time ago by Ben Chifley as a system of 'spies, pimps and perjurers'. It is the people who have prestige and authority who can do that: they do so far more than is necessary in this country. The police state in Australia will ride on the back of anti-Communism, if it ever rides at all. 
I will not be deterred from reasonable public political actions by fears that something might go wrong. I will do everything in my power to prevent it from going wrong - but I am not going to work within the limits imposed by my political opponents. I am not going to be driven into a corner away from action that is even in the slightest bit radical just because if I come out of that corner I might find myself standing near some Communist. I have no intention of doing this. As I said, 
I stand on this matter where J. B. Chifley stood a long time ago. On 1st June 1951 J. B. Chifley said: 
I can only hope that you will be inspired by the same things which inspired the pioneers of this movement, and that you will not be frightened  . . over to the 'right' because of the whispered word 'Communist'. I could not be called a young radical. But if a thing it worth fighting for, no matter what the penalty is I will fight for the right, and truth and justice will prevail. 
Ben Chifley had no intention of being frightened over to the right because of the whispered word 'Communist'. He took the occasion of his last speech to make that clear. I think it is not any longer possible to solve political problems in this country in terms of hanging a Communist label on them and thinking that you have solved the problems and dismissed the issues. 1 do not think that anyone must be deterred from working against the immoral and unjust military invasion of Vietnam by the Australian Government and its allies. I hope that every Australian citizen will realise that if he is to govern himself he cannot perform that task by leaving it to others. He must perform that task himself. 
Democracy begins on the farms, in the factories and in the streets, and if people will not, often at risk to themselves, stand up for their rights in those places there will be no democracy. I do not think the generation over 35 years of age realises the significance of how thoroughly this thinking has gripped the younger generation. The younger generation is not going to be satisfied with all the trappings of the past. It is going to endeavour to determine effective ways of governing itself. The important thing for the authorities to realise is that unless reasonable opportunities are given to those people who hold these views - who feel strongly about issues such as Vietnam and conscription and many other issues - then the authorities will be failing in their responsibilities in government and will be forcing the very circumstances to develop that they appear not to want. Today in Australia we need an understanding that the old methods are not going to be adequate for the solution of new problems. All round the world there is an inability by people to be fooled as easily as they once were. All round the world there is a determination to do something about the issues that people feel strongly about and to find ways of expressing those issues in the making of decisions, not only in Parliament but in every other part of the community that determines and influences the lives of the people concerned. 
I think it is a tragedy that so few people on the other side of the House are capable even to be aware of this situation. They never seem to express any sympathy or understanding of it at all and constantly take the attitude that everyone who expresses dissent or protest is either an idiot or a Communist and should not be taken seriously. I think it is a tragedy that the generation that has acquired powers of government and powers of authority has today, in Australia, so many in it who take that view. Of course, unless there is a change there will be difficulties in the future in the development and extension of democracy, because democracy is government by the people. What is being done in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is an example of government by the people; it is an example of people taking action about issues that are important to them, actions which they believe will be influential in the making of national decisions in the ways that are open to them and in the ways in which they can make1 their decisions effective. The important thing for us, to my mind, is to work for a proper, peaceful and dignified expression of that activity and not endeavour to blackguard it, as the Minister did by his statement this evening, or to drive it into corners so that it would become the problem that the Minister seems to think it is already. 
ns asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has he been engaged in discussions about the future of the sugar industry in Fiji. 
Is it a fact that millions of dollars in profits from the sugar industry in Fiji have been made and much of it by a company substantially owned in Australia. 
Is it a fact that a large amount of these profits would have been paidin taxation to the Commonwealth Government. 
If so, will he consider a plan under which the Commonwealth Government would assist the Government of Fiji to take over the sugar industry there so that it can be operated on behalf of the people of Fiji. 
I move the following amendment to the motion proposed by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden): 
That the date '8th May' in paragraph (1) be omitted wilh a view to inserting the date ' 1 5th May' in place thereof. 
The effect of that amendment would be that the House would not sit on Friday, 8th May, but would begin the Friday sittings on 15th May. 
In general I, like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  welcome the proposals for the change in sitting hours that have been put forward by the Minister. The operative reason is that a large amount of business is anticipated between now and the end of the session. Another reason which I think it is necessary to mention is that the Opposition has been able to show in the course of the last week that some significant changes in the hours of sitting of the House, and in the circumstances in which the House sits, are very necessary. The House has functioned with greater flexibility since last Wednesday week largely as a result of the action of the Opposition at that time. The proposal put by the Minister now, to say the very least, is not unrelated to that action. The Opposition welcomes the move as a response by the Government to the pressure generated by the Opposition last week. Those people who become a little disturbed about anything that is unconventional should remember that if purely conventional methods are adopted nobody takes much notice of them. Something out of the ordinary has to be done to attract the attention of people who simply go on, day after day, doing the same thing. This is what tends to happen in the procedures of this House. In the next few years we will see some quite deep and extensive transformations in the way that Parliament works. This is a sign of the times. I believe that we are going to have expressions of opinion coming into the Parliament from outside. We are going to see some extensive changes in the way that Parliament works. I believe that as a result the Parliament will become more democratic and less inhibited by procedures that are, in my opinion, outmoded. 
I submit that my amendment is significant in principle. There is a very long tradition of support, extending back in our own British history for nearly 1,000 years, for the belief that democracy is what happens in Parliament and also what happens outside Parliament. Democracy depends upon the will of the people. That will has to be formed outside Parliament before it can be expressed in Parliament. One of the deficiencies in Australia in these fat, affluent years is in the way in which the will of the people has been formed outside Parliament. I want to put this thought with the least possible sense of recrimination so that it will be considered seriously by Government supporters. I believe that we should encourage people outside Parliament much more than we do to participate in the formation of a will to be expressed in Parliament. In my 15 or 20 years of political experience and activity more of my time has been taken up in what I. regard as the formation of the will of the people outside Parliament than with matters inside Parliament. I have been concerned with the formation of the will of the people on particular issues with which Government supporters disagree, but I do not think that my actions should hide from them the significance of those issues. I would support, as much in every way, the procedures for the formation of a will that represents the point of view of honourable members opposite outside the Parliament, as I would support procedures to secure ways of getting greater formation of the will of the people who hold my point of view. I would be as much in favour of seeking opportunities for discussion outside the Parliament in support of intervention in Vietnam, as I would be in favour of securing opportunities for discussion outside Parliament for those who oppose intervention in Vietnam. My amendment relates to the formation of the will of the people outside Parliament, and I am seeking greater recognition for this. 
With all due respect to everybody, I do not think that honourable members opposite give the same recognition to this process of the formation of the will of the people outside Parliament as they appear to give to the process inside Parliament. They tend to look down on it. They tend to talk about rabble rousers. They tend to talk about anarchy. They tend to ta'k about -nob rule. They do this, I think, quite unfairly and with great exaggeration. I think that this shows a lack of respect for the people in the action of forming a will without which democracy cannot work. I am asking for greater recognition from everybody for action which consists of the formation of the will outside Parliament. I am asking for greater respect for this than has been shown by quite a large number of honourable members opposite - by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who is at the table, by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and by quite a number of others. 
I seek to give as much recognition as 1 can to Parliament as a great historical institution. In 1970 it is the most powerful single thing we have in the community, through which people can express their will. There is nothing that rivals it. You may become a shareholder or a director of one of the largest industrial concerns in the country, you may become an archbishop or a cardinal in a very great church; you may become the chancellor of a university; but in none of these places is there anything, through which the people can express their will which rivals Parliament. Anyone who has respect, as I think I have, for the activities outside Parliament must also have the same kind of respect for Parliament as an institution, towards which all this outside activity very significantly is focused. So I express my appreciation for the significance of Parliament in respect of this matter. 
This being so, I hope I will be conceded the same kind of recognition when I ask for the recognition of honourable members opposite - more than they appear to me to give it - for what I would call the 'formation of the will of the people' outside Parliament by meetings, by demonstrations, by sit downs or by civil disobedience. At the same time, there is an awareness that if one breaks the law, in the hope that this will help to improve the law, one claims this not as a right to escape punishment for breaking the law, but knowing that as the law is. punishment will come. I am prepared to accept that punishment when I break the law, as I have done twice already and have been arrested for doing it. When one claims a right of this kind, it is not that one says: Look, I should be able to go out and break the law and not be touched for it'. I recognise the existence of the law, as it is, and if I think it is wrong and the issue is strong enough, I will break the law. But I am quite prepared to accept the consequences of breaking it. I do not intend ever to resist the application of those consequences to me, if 1 can maintain sufficient and proper control as I will do everything in my power to do. I would not offer any resistance whatsoever. 
The reason why 1 moved this amendment is that on 8th May in Melbourne the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign begins with an activity which is going to involve, in Melbourne, an act of civil disobedience. I think that in the course of that activity, some obstruction to a public place might occur, but I would say this about an obstruction: An obstruction is not something exact like 12 inches in 1 foot or 60 seconds in 1 minute. An obstruction is a matter of degree, and when the police take action against the obstruction, they use their discretion about whether they think this particular act is an act of obstruction or not. In some circumstances they will accept the occupation of space in a public place and will never imagine that is an obstruction. They would never think of taking one person to court for occupying space in a public place, but under the same circumstance, if a different kind of person for a different reason, occupied that space for that same length of time, they would very quickly and without a second thought take that person to court. 
Whether obstructing a piece of street is an offence or not is a matter of fairly wide discretion. People can assemble in tens of thousands in a public place for the Moomba festival. If a departmental store has some display in the window in order to sell some product, people can assemble there and occupy that space for a great period of time and nobody would think that they should be taken to court for obstruction. But if somebody seeks to occupy that same space for the same period of time in order to oppose the war in Vietnam, there will be clamours that they are breaking the law and that they should be taken to court. That is not good enough. But on 8th May something like that might happen. Some space in the city of Melbourne might be so occupied. I want Parliament to give some respect to this outdoors activity on 8th May by not sitting on that date. I hope that is not too much to ask. I want to be in Melbourne when this happens because I have the responsibility, as much as anyone else, for what might happen, and I want to be there when it does happen. 
Yes, you can record it. You can use it until Kingdom comes, if you like. I am as much responsible as anyone else - far more than Peking, Hanoi, Moscow or anywhere else. I am an Australian, and I think I can claim to have - and I am not doing it immodestly - more influence than Peking, Moscow and Hanoi combined, and that is not saying much because they have little influence. I hope I can go on having that influence, and I am asking honourable members opposite to give me an opportunity to go on having that influence and to be able to be in Melbourne on 8th May so that I can have it. 
The honourable member for Balaclava condescends from his great heights. I am not asking for any condescension. I am asking for a serious and rational consideration of the proposition which I am putting to the House. On Tuesday the Attorney-General told the House that he wanted the people to stay away from this demonstration. He said: 
I hope that my remarks will be borne in mind by people who, not yet having made up their minds about the Campaign, may be assisted to do so by exposure of the relevant facts. 
He hopes that people will not go. He is associated with a Government which has introduced a motion which is going to keep away from that demonstration as many of the 75 members of the Labor Party who have sponsored the demonstration as would want to go to it. Has the 8th May been suggested as the first date for a Friday sitting so that we will be kept away from that demonstration? 
 There has not been the suggestion of a Friday sitting for quite a long time. Friday sittings might just as easily commence on 15th May as on 8th May. Yes, as the honourable member for 
Hindmarsh just said, we can close down for the Melbourne Cup. I would not ask the House to close down for the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign but when certain arrangements have been made by certain members of the House, like myself and others who have considerable responsibilities in respect of the Campaign, and having in mind that these new arrangements are being proposed by a Government that is doing its best to discourage, reduce and break down this Campaign and keep 75 members of the Labor Party who have sponsored it here in Canberra rather than allow them to take part in it, I think there is some significance in the coincidence of those events. I do not want to see this Campaign fail in the sense that I do not want it to be an unrepresentative expression of the views of those who want to take action in it. I want it to be a democratic process; I want it to be a peaceful process; I want it to be an inoffensive process; and I want to be in Melbourne on 8th May to do everything I can to make it into these things. If I am here in CanberraI cannot do that. 
If it were not for the proposed sitting I certainly would be in Melbourne. My amendment asks the Government to do something that is very unusual for it. I ask the Government to take genuinely into account the feelings of the Opposition or some members of it. I am asking the Government not to treat this House as a process for churning out Government decisions irrespective of the way we feel but to begin, if it will, to make decisions that reflect to some extent the way we fee] when there is nothing that should in principle or in great substance prevent that from occurring. I wish I could hear what the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is muttering about. Perhaps he is saying something that is not unsympathetic? I do not know. 
I think the situation that we see arising here is one which sooner or later we must begin to develop - whether we are the government or honourable members opposite are the government - if this place is really to become a democratic institution. The Parliament cannot expect to function forever as it has done over the last 10 to 15 years in which, in my experience, almost every decision that has been made has been formulated outside of this place, has been brought in here and rubber stamped into existence as though this place had no significance at all. I will not say that the Labor Party did not do this when it was in government: I will not say that we might not even do it again. That is the way in which Parliament has grown up. But it is not the best way. I do not think this system can go on forever. I am convinced that people under 35 years of age today see the fundamental defects in the present system and they will not accept it in the way that we have accepted it in the past. I think that attitude is the significance of all that is involved in protest and dissent today and that is why I move my amendment. 
ns asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say whether at least several hundred members of the Armed Services stationed in or near Melbourne are employed in second jobs as office cleaners in most of the large buildings in the city area of Melbourne. 
If so, do these members of the Armed Services have to undertake second jobs mainly because they are unable to live on the pay and conditions of the Armed Services. 
Can he say whether there are so many members of the Armed Services employed in this manner that when demonstrations occurred last year at the American Embassy there was almost a complete break down in office cleaning in Melbourne when members of the Armed Services were retained at their posts and could not go to their cleaning work as usual. 
ns asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many Australians have (a) been killed, (b) been wounded and (c) died of wounds incurred in Vietnam or in operations in relation to the war in  Vietnam. 
How many Australians who were casualties in these operations are now (a) in hospital and (b) disabled in any way. 
Can he say how many Americans have been (a) killed and (b) wounded in Vietnam or in operations in relation to the war in Vietnam. 
Can he say how many military personnel of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam have been (a) killed and (b) wounded in Vietnam or in operations in relation to the war in Vietnam. 
Can he say how many Vietnamese civilians have been (a) killed and (b) wounded. in Vietnam during the war. 
Can he say how many personnel claimed to be (a) Viet Cong and (b) of the Republic of North Vietnam have been (i) killed and (ii) wounded in Vietnam or in operations in relation to the war in Vietnam. 
Can the Minister for External Affairs say whether any request was made by the Lon Nol Government in Cambodia to the Government of the United States of America or to the Thieu Government in Saigon to send into Cambodia American and South Vietnamese armed forces? If such requests were made will the Minister provide details of them and tell us when they were made? Finally, will he say whether, in view of the entry of United States and South Vietnamese armed forces  into Cambodia and the widespread hostilities that exist, the Australian Government intends to support the conference suggested by the Indonesian Foreign Minister? If so, what will be the objectives of the Australian Government at that conference? When will the conference take place? 
I  ask the Prime Minister whether he or any of his Ministers would like to say anything this week about the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Would they l:ke to change any of the statements they made last week? In particular has the Prime Minister consulted with the Minister for Labour and National Service to ascertain from him how many 'pack-raping bikies took part in the Campaign? If so, would he inform the House of the number? Finally, has he noticed the editorial comment of a leading Melbourne newspaper of 11th May: 
It has been shown that a massive parade of dissent can make its viewpoint known. 
On anyone's standards this must be conceded to be a very interesting and very important Bill. Even if one can see beyond the sectional interests that may be involved - and one may feel genuinely that they have served a very useful purpose in the past - one has to concede that this Bill represents a very important development in the provision of finance for Australian industry.  I  would like to congratulate the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  on the work that has gone into making this Bill possible and also to congratulate those who have been responsible for drawing it up. 
Australia has a serious economic problem that arises out of our balance of payments position. It is a problem that sooner or later we will have to grapple with and which will present us with considerably more difficulty than we have faced in recent years. We also have constitutional difficulties which on the whole have not assisted Australian economic development and have not assisted our surmounting of those problems when they have arisen. I think this Bill goes some of the way towards establishing an institution that can help us with the economic problems, andI congratulate those who have been responsible for drawing it up because I think they have shown an appreciation of the constitutional difficulties that an institution of this kind faces. I think the Bill is well designed in relation to those constitutional difficulties. 
The Bill is described as one to establish the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It is really a Bill to assist the development of commerce between the States and between Australia and other nations. It is a Bill that has an economic purpose but it operates within a constitutional field thatI would define in that manner. Firstly as to the problem: The Minister for Trade and Industry did not, in my opinion understate the significance of the problem. I hope that his statement of the problem - I think I can make mine stronger and I propose to do so - will not escape the attention of those who have lived in affluence and apathy for far too long; who have been inclined to believe that this lucky country can go on being lucky in all circumstances and under all conditions. That is hardly a viewpoint that I would expect the economic and political pachyderms who inhabit the benches opposite to accept readily. I think they of all people should be prepared to do something now to help to alleviate the difficulties that may well come and may well help to induce some of those political and economic problems about which they would be very unhappy and which would lead to their principles being the first to go if those problems become as intense as they may well do. 
In defining the problem the Minister in his second reading speech said: 
It is, however, a basic feature of our developing economy that, as the gross national product increases, so do our import requirements to sustain our industries and meet consumer needs. We face a growing burden of income remitted abroad. Income remitted overseas by companies in Australia has in 5 years risen from 8.3% to 10.5% of our export earnings. In addition, income being earned by overseas investors and ploughed back in further investment in Australia has more than doubled in 5 years. This means a building up of commitments for further income to be paid abroad in the future. And, where the investment is in equity form, there is no end to the commitment. 
That is a strong enough statement and in statistical terms the strongest part of it is that income remitted overseas by Australian companies is rising quite rapidly. It has risen from  8.3%  to  10.5%  of our export earnings in a short period of  5  years. But if anything the problem is more serious than that. The problem may be seen in any examination of the balance of payments situation. I would like to refer the House to a recent statement of the balance of payments problem by  Sir John  Crawford, with the concurrence of honourable memAs the statement is in up-to-date terms, bers I incorporate it in Hansard, lt reads: 

<graphic href="067131197005143_73_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Sources: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, Balance of Payments 1968-69, Table 29 and Balance of Payments, Quarterly Summary, December quarter 1969. For Level of International Reserves, Reserve Bank of Australia, Statistical Bulletin, June, 1966 and January, 1970. 
As the statement will now appear in Hansard I do not need to go through it in detail but can simply refer to the trends which it indicates. 
The honourable member will be able to read it in Hansard in the morning. He has my assurance that it is a table prepared recently by  Sir John  Crawford, but it is one that any person qualified in national income accounts and in statistics could prepare. What emerges from an examination of this table is that our imports and exports of material goods since 1948-49 have not behaved in a very unfavourable way. There have been years when our imports did not reach the level of our exports. There have been years when our exports of material goods exceeded our imports. But if honourable members examine the table, as I hope they will tomorrow, they will see 2 columns of imports and exports that do not diverge in any material sense or in any sense that would create any significant economic problem. They will then see, however, that there is a serious economic problem in our balance of payments. This is revealed by our almost continuous and serious deficit on current account. I think in only 3 years since 1948-49 have we not had a deficit on current account. This will be shown in the table. 
The net result is that in every year since 1948-49 we have had a deficit of invisibles. 
That deficit of invisibles - that increasing debt - that increasing obligation to pay out more than we are earning - is made up of invisibles of freight, insurance, banking charges, interest on loans, dividends and so on. From a surplus of $62m in 1948-49 - one of the few years in which there was a surplus - we have gone to a deficit of $1.0 14m in 1968-69. This increasing deficit has been made up only because we have been able to borrow against or sell Austraiian assets: only because we have a net apparent capital inflow each year which coincides with the balance of invisibles, lt would be useful to have incorporated in Hansard a diagram such as the one I have in my hand. From it we can see how the net capital inflow - a positive factor - rises through the years when the deficit on current accounts declines through the years. One tends to offset the other. Our problem is: How can we escape a little from the indebtedness on current account that this situation represents? Our only way of doing it so far has been by capital inflow. The total of capital inflow has risen from $270m in 1948-49 to $1,1 68m in 1968-69. 
There are those who say that this is not a very serious matter because capital inflow has not risen disproportionately to gross national product, that it has not risen disproportionately to our capacity to meet the costs of this capital inflow. But it seems to me that we still need to note very carefully something which the Vernon Committee warned about. If we compare the volume of capital inflow with the volume of exports - and roughly speaking, it is only through exports that we are able to pay the costs of capital investment - we find that the greater it is the greater is the volume of capital inside Australia on which we have to pay. lt is not just a matter of the annual increment to that volume; it is the fact that every annual increment increases the volume of capital inside Australia and increases correspondingly the outflow for servicing that capital. 
If in  Sir John  Crawford's table we can compare the net capital inflow with our earnings from exports, we find that in the 5 years from 1948-49 to 1952-53 net capital inflow represented only about 12% or 13% of our exports. In the period from 1956-57 to 1960-61, for instance, it repre sented 22% to 23% of our exports, and in the period from 1964-65 to 1968-69 it represented 30% to 40% of our exports. I took those three 5-year periods so as not to pick out any particular year which would give a less genuine comparison. The fact is that the inflow is growing in relation to our capacity to pay for it. Not only do we depend more on the money of other people; we depend more on their money as the years go by. Surely this is a matter that ought to cause men who enter this Parliament  from  business circles to hesitate, because it seems to me to be a normal business practice that the more you develop the less you should depend upon the money of other people. The more success you have in your own business the less you ought to be dependent on other people. 
My argument is that if we have had success in running the business of the Commonwealth of Australia - we have had a lot of success in that respect although rauch of it has been quite unattributable to the Government - then we ought to be becoming less dependent on the money of other people. I think the statistics show that we are becoming more dependent on other people's money. Therefore the views expressed by the Minister for Trade and Industry in his speech can, I think, be strengthened and reinforced. The problem can be stated to be greater than he said. In my view he did not exaggerate anywhere. 
There are all sorts of fantastic views about what might happen in the future, and J hope those views are right. The Minister in the Western Australian Government who is supposed to be responsible, from a public point of view, for development said recently that in 1980 the value of exports from Pilbara alone would exceed the value of the Australian wool clip. That might be ail right. I hope that forecast comes true. But if this is so the requirement of the Australian economy for imports will rise even more rapidly if the events of the last 20 years are repeated. And why should they not be repeated? With full employment, with people with money lo buy all the bits and pieces and odds and ends of an affluent society, of course it is going to rise even more rapidly in the future than it has in the last 20 years. It is not good enough to think in terms of this new mineral euphoria and to leave everything to the sort of free enterprise we have experienced in the past. 
The next thing to look at is our reserves. If we have to face some kind of crisis then what sort Qf reserves do we have? In the table I have presented there is a column for the level of international reserves. The reserves can be defined sometimes a little higher than this, but there has sometimes been rather a tendency on the part of Treasurers, not only the former Treasurer who is now Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  but even his predecessor in that office, to define our reserves a little optimistically and to assume that we could readily draw on reserves that we could readily draw on only in very good times. If we need our reserves then the times arc not good. The very fact that a country needs its reserves means that times are not good. To my mind there has been too much optimism from the gentleman who is now Minister for External Affairs and even his predecessor about this aspect. If we have regard to the reserve to which we have a right, and which we can get despite the say-so of any man, then the position is not so favourable. 
If honourable members look at the table I have presented they can compare the level of international reserves with the level of imports. These two things are significant. It is through buying imports that we create a situation in which we might have to draw on our reserves. If we compare the level of imports with tha level of reserves we find that the situation has been moving very much against us. In the early period of this table, soon after World War II, we may have had an excess of reserves. They were about 90% of our import requirements in 1 year. They continued to be 90%, 80% or 75% for a long period. We were then and for some time in the hands of quite conservative Treasurers. The right honourable gentleman who then led the Australian Labor Party was a conservative Treasurer and the tradition that he helped to establish in the Treasury was conservative for some time. Our reserves in those days were about 90% to 75%; but reserves today are about 40% or less than 40% of our requirement for 1 year's imports. 
That is right. So the matter is not to be understated. I think the position is one that need not just now lead to any pessimism, but it is a position that ought to lead to some preparation for an attempt to reduce our dependence upon these variables which are not under our control. ^ 
I see this Bill as an attempt - not a revolutionary attempt - to reduce our dependence upon variables that are not under our control. Should there be for some reason or other an unusual withdrawal rather than a reinvestment of dividends - about half of them are reinvested; it is a very high proportion - should there be a reduction of capital inflow because of the economic conditions in some other country that are not the same as they are here; and should there be a capital withdrawal, Australia would face a crisis greater and more serious than any crisis it has faced in its history. I think it is true to say that full employment and whatever our growth is in terms of the gross national product - and I noticed recently that Professor Dowling said it is much lower than it ought to be - over a period are averaging only about 3%. We ought to be able to achieve double that amount, or near enough to it, if we had the more sophisticated economic techniques and institutions that other countries a little more advanced in this field than we are, have already. This is one of the institutions that is being introduced in this Bill and it is a little more sophisticated than we have had before. We could increase that rate of economic growth. But apart from any increase and apart from any improvement, full employment in Australia and our growth rate in terms of gross national product are in the hands of foreign investors. 
We live at the grace of foreign investors. Let none of us forget that. What has been done to anticipate this situation? I have been quoting the right honourable gentleman, perhaps to his annoyance, for a long time by saying things that looked like anticipating this kind of problem. I have been saying that because it was our political advantage to do so. I felt that if we were in office those were some of the things we would do, although perhaps not in the same way. But it seems to me that a good many of the right honourable gentleman's supporters are more inclined to rely on traditional methods of dealing with any possible difficulty. I do not want to be unfair to the Treasurer, to his immediate predecessor or to the one before that. However I think as this Government has changed Treasurers they have become more conservative; they have become more conventional. I do not say that it has a Treasurer now who is more capable of sustaining this more traditional and conservative argument in the Cabinet than it had before. Perhaps he is less capable of doing it. 
I am sorry that 1 happened to introduce a note of politics for the honourable member for Cowper, for i know he is never political but I think that it is also important for the Australian people to realise that these things are happening. 
Of course, the traditional remedy to which the Treasurer seems to me to be particularly wedded is that when export income goes down for some reason or other the logical thing to do is to bring all income down, to have a general credit squeeze so as to bring all income down into conformity with export income. 
I)r J. F. CAIRNS - Oh, yes, I hope it is going up. But the honourable gentleman is not contradicting my proposition. My proposition is that be is wedded to the attitude that if export income goes down his economics are that all incomes should be brought down by appropriate monetary measures. This could be done by a credit squeeze, an interest rate increase, if necessary a fall in wages and, if necessary a rise in unemployment. 
Yes. I am not disputing that. I am talking about the honourable gentleman's economic views and theories and what he would tlo if export income was not going up. Is it not remarkable that the honourable gentleman, who is no fool, avoids my accusations altogether by introducing another one? My argument is that this is not the way to do it; that export income of today, I suppose, under traditional methods, would be appropriately balanced by 4% or  5%  of unemployment and a consequent reduced national income structure generally. If it was not for the Government's fear of losing votes from that kind of result, this would be the appropriate situation, even if export income is going up. 
Yes, of course it is hypothetical. But if the Government was not afraid of losing votes it would bc actual, it is hypothetical today because of that. 
1 think this amendment is clearly out of order for 2 quite distinct reasons. The first reason has already been indicated by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he argued that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  was a direct negative to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I think one has only to refer to the words in each amendment to see that this is true. The significant proposition in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson is: '. . . that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States 
.'. That is what we are asking the House to vote about. Then, along came the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson),  the significant paragraph of which- 
The significant proposition in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is: 'that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments'. It is clearly and distinctly an opposing and contrary proposition. If the House is to vote on a proposition the simplest and most effective way to do that is to vote for or against the proposition, not to vote for or against a proposition that is put up as an amendment and presented to the House as an alternative to that. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey is quite clearly a proposition which is a direct contradiction of what we have been asked to vote for in the first place. Why complicate the procedure? What conceivable argument can there be that we should proceed to consider an amendment to get exactly the same result as we can get if we vote for or against the original motion? This is wasting the time of the House; it is confusing the issue. It is an unnecessary procedure and the House should obviouly agree to those propositions. 
The second reason why this amendment is out of order is a much more fundamental and significant reason than that one amendment is contradictory of the other. The tradition of the House of Commons, which is the tradition of this House as is indicated by the judgment given by  Mr Speaker  Bell in 1936, has been that when a motion of no confidence is moved in a government that question has to be decided yes or no. lt must be decided. There should be no manoeuvre undertaken to avoid a decision being taken on this. It goes to the very root of the Government's confidence in the House. The procedure in the House of Commons and the procedure here until recently has been in every case that that is so. The amendment procedure has been now twice adopted, although in the first case it involved only a motton of censure. This took place a couple of weeks ago when this amendment procedure was wrongly, in my view, adopted. We now have a motion of want of confidence. It is a much more significant motion than the one a couple of weeks ago. If we are to establish as a precedent that whenever a motion of want of confidence is moved the Government can come up with an amendment which avoids the issues on which that motion is based and diverts consideration to something else, this defeats the whole purpose of the basic motion of want of confidence - the most important one that can be moved in this House. The Government's action is designed to avoid the question, not to decide it. Because it is designed to avoid the question it defeats the purpose of the House, it prevents a decision and that, of course, is precisely why the Government, in a desperate situation, has moved this procedure. It does not allow this subject to be adequately discussed. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey has a number of points about it which have not been discussed so far and which in all probability the House will never have an opportunity to discuss. For instance, the amendment says: 
It  is of the opinion that it is this fact which has led to the honourable member for Farrer feeling justified in believing that an undertaking that there would be further consultations, which he gave to the States, has be:n dishonoured. 
How do we know what the honourable member for Farrer feels about this? How do we know that this is his reason? It probably is not his reason anyway for feeling this way. If the Government has changed its policy, what was its policy before? Was that not a commitment? Was that not a commitment to the States? Was not the previous policy a commitment to the States? Now the Government says: 'We did not break any commitment; we merely changed our policy'. But if your policy is not a commitment what is it? If you have changed your policy you must have changed a commitment; you must have broken a commitment. 
It seems to me that the whole purpose of this jargon that has been designed somewhere in the Prime Minister's office or in the Cabinet room during the course of a very desperate afternoon to try to get the Government out of difficulty avoids the whole question.  Mr Speaker,  when I say it avoids the question, this is a particular and special responsibility for you. If the position of  Speaker  is to appear to be in any way a partisan position, if the  Speaker  is to behave in such a way that it can be reasonably deduced that he is favouring one side or the other, then that puts the office you are occupying in question,  Mr Speaker.  It is most regrettable that this is so. It is most regrettable that for the second time in a few weeks we have had to move a motion of dissent from your ruling on this matter. I say that this is a much more important matter than the one we were discussing several weeks ago. Reference to May's 'Parliamentary Practice' remains completely uncontradicted from the other side of the House. A case has been put by the honourable member for Wills and myself that the procedure in the House of Commons and the procedure here - cases have been quoted to exhibit the truth of this - is that the House of Commons and this House have not been prepared to accept an amendment to a no confidence motion. As the  Speaker  in 1936 put it very vividly, the vote has to be aye or nay. 

 Mr Speaker, on this vote of no confidence the vote cannot be aye or nay. The amendment is going to be put first and honourable members can vote for or against the amendment. If the amendment is carried there will be no vote at all on the vote of no confidence. I submit, for you to give a ruling which allows this to happen is completely contrary to practice. Not only does it appear now to be contrary to practice but no-one on the Government side has been able or has seen fit to put a case to oppose this view. In the absence of any case to oppose this view I submit,  Mr Speaker,  that you have no alternative but to accept the case that has been put from this side of the House. 
We now have a motion and an amendment before the House. The motion was moved by the Opposition as a motion of no confidence in the Government, the strongest and most fundamental motion that can he moved against a government in a parliament. We have an amendment which is presumably something less than that, and which was described by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  a few minutes ago as not black but purple. The amendment is not a vote of no confidence in the Government hut it is a censure of the Government. The House has an alternative now, either to vote for no confidence in the Government or to vote for an amendment which is a significant criticism of the Government and a significant censure of the Government. The amendment was moved by the Government itself. We have had a very remarkable situation today. After a debate that has been over 12 hours in duration we now have the Government moving  a  censure of itself. We have the Government moving an amendment which is a very significant criticism of itself. The motion of want of confidence was accepted this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  as a motion of censure against the Govern men t and he said he would meet it head on. It was a matter of whether the interpretation given to events by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  or that given by the Prime Minister was correct. The Prime Minister accepted it as a motion which was to test that proposition. But during the course of the day there have been changes. 
The Prime Minister no longer wants that proposition to be tested because it was obvious that the honourable member for Farrer was going to vote against him, probably the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  was going to vote against him and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  was going to vote against him. Nobody was quite sure how the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was going to vote although later he said that despite the fact that he agreed completely with the version of the honourable member for Farrer he was still going to vote for the Government. I understand that nobody at all m the House had the faintest idea what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  was going to do. So in this condition of very great uncertainty in which the future of the Gorton Government was teetering on the brink conferences took place in the Prime Minister's room and in the Cabinet room during the course of the whole afternoon. During the course of the whole afternoon today the Gorton Government was at the brink of disaster and was dependent on the votes of 3 or 4 people who were worked on in various ways during the course of the afternoon. We saw several versions of a motion brought in to the honourable member for Casey. We saw him shake his head and look unco-operative. We saw the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  go and speak to him. Then the honourable member for Casey went away with the honourable member for Chisholm. During the course of the whole afternoon the future of the Gorton Government was in doubt. Now we have the alternative of a censure which has been moved by the Government itself. How has this remarkable situation come about? 
The discovery of oil and minerals off the coast of Australia created the necessity for legislation and a constitutional problem arose. It was a matter of whether the States or the Commonwealth should pass laws of certain kinds, which of the 2 sets of government was to have all authority in which areas, what were to be the limits and what Was to be the nature of the legislation. So it was obvious that discussions would have to take place between the States and the Commonwealth and those discussions took place. At first the position of the States was that they claimed to be responsible for the area from the low water mark to a position 3 miles out, leaving the Commonwealth responsible for the area beyond the 3-mile limit. Discussions have taken place. Mutual legislation was envisaged to take place between the 2 sets of government. There was to be mirrored legislation, and then something happened. There was the contradiction between the position of the States and the Commonwealth and that difference had to be worked out. From the very beginning until about, perhaps, November 1969 the control of the territorial sea was a matter that was to be shared between the Commonwealth and the States. That was the position that the honourable member for Farrer understood. That was the position that he put to the State Ministers in March and in September and that was the position that everybody in the Government understood. If that undertaking given by the honourable member for Farrer was not a commitment I do not know what a commitment is. That was the undertaking given by the honourable member for Farrer as the Minister for National Development to the State Ministers in those 2 conferences. I submit that that was done just as clearly in the second conference attended by the Attorney-General as it was at the first conference. This is borne out in detail by the speech of the honourable member for Farrer in this House last Friday. Of course that was the position, and everybody knew that was the position. If this is not a commitment - if this is not something that meets the meaning of that word in the Opposition's motion of censure - then I do not know what a commitment would be. What was the position has been established by practically every honourable member who has spoken during the day, but the point that apparently is coming into doubt is whether this was a commitment. 
What happened, of course, was that there was a change of policy. Somewhere about August of last year in a case that did not have anything in particular to do with this series of discussions - a case that was mentioned by the honourable member for Farrer last Friday - 2 judges indicated that the Commonwealth had authority from the low water mark out indefinitely. This, of course, established a position that the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  were able immediately to take advantage of, and there was a change of policy, as they call it. But the honourable member for Farrer, the former Minister for National Development, had given an undertaking to the State Ministers for Mines that was based upon a different policy. He had given what we claim to be a commitment. Then there was a change of policy. That is all. just a change of policy; not a change of commitment, not a breaking of any undertaking, not a breaking of any promise to the State Ministers - a change of policy. Some honourable members have been persuaded, because of the semantic twist that has been given to words, to change their attitude. Half a dozen of them were committed to the honourable member for Farrer because, they said, he was a man of integrity who would not tell a lie or give a false impression. And 1 believe that to be true. They were committed to him because they thought that what he said to the State Ministers was the Government's policy at the time and was a commitment, surely, in anybody's language. But then along came the clever men who suggested some semantic differences. They have moved an amendment and have said that this was not a change of commitment, it was a change of policy. The gentlemen who apparently were taking strong positions during the course of the day have gone to water. They have taken weak positions. But I submit that the situation has not changed. I submit that the former Minister for National Development made a commitment to the State Ministers, and this they understood. It was a commitment that there would be a division of responsibility between the 2 sets of government. That was the policy of the Government up to mat point. A commitment was made on that policy as clearly as a commitment has ever been made on any policy. 
But then there was a change. Since November 1969 the position has changed fundamentally. The Commonwealth decided not merely to take control beyond the 3-mile mark and leave the innerwaters to the States, as it might have been proceeding to do up to that point, but to go further, and under the legislation that was introduced info the House by the present . Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will take control of the lot. What a change in policy that was. How can anyone claim, in any degree of honesty, that there was not a change of commitment? How can anyone suggest that this is not a fundamental change of policy? The Commonwealth was going to share with the States control of the waters, but now the Commonwealth is going to take control of all the waters. This is not only a change of policy but a change of commitment - a twist, a breaking of an undertaking. 
The significant factor really is: How did this come about. There was a change of policy. The Prime Minister may have been mainly responsible for this, but he did not go to the State Ministers and say: 'Look, we have decided for very good reason that we are going to change our policy. The position is not the same now as it was when the Minister for National Development met you in September and March. The position now is not the same as it was then. It has changed'. He did not even do the natural thing. Certainly the honourable member for Farrer, as the Minister for National Development, must have given those Ministers an impression, an undertaking. I can quote his own words in September to the effect that there would be further discussions, and not only about policy as the Ministers at that time .thought it to be. Had the then Minister for National Development known that the Government intended to change the whole arrangement and take control of all the waters, what would he have said to those Ministers in September 1969? What would he have said if he had known that there was to be a complete change? This is the biggest piece of humbug and political dishonesty that I have seen during my time in this House, and I have seen a few instances of that from the other side of the House in that time. 
The Prime Minister does not decide to have a discussion with State Ministers. He decides a couple of days or 1 day before the announcement is to be made in the Governor-General's Speech to send them some telegrams. I understand that one of them did not even receive the telegram until after he had heard the statement in th Governor-General's Speech. Is that the way to treat Ministers from the States? Is that the way to keep whatever it was that the Minister for National Development had established with them - this thing that the Government now says is not a commitment but merely the subject of a change of policy? 
Then we have another series of remarkable events. There has been a stark fundamental change in policy. One would think that some attempt would have been made to explain this, if not to the Ministers directly, then certainly by the new Minister for National Development who apparently did not even talk to the former Minister for National Development until Parliament reassembled during the course of 1970. What kind of a breakdown in communications was that? Then the new Minister for National Development made a long speech which is recorded in Hansard of 16th April 1970. Not one word does he say about this. These are the opening remarks in his speech: 
The object of this Bill is lo carry out the Government's decision, concisely stated by His Excellency the Governor-General- 
I interpose here, for the first time ever -  in his Speech at the opening of the present session, to introduce legislation asserting and establishing the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to exercise sovereign control over the resources of the sea bed off the Australian coast, from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. 
There was a complete and fundamental change in policy, and the new Minister does not even consider it necessary to explain to the House that such a change in policy has taken place. He does not even consider it necessary to say in this speech whether he had informed the State Ministers that there had been this change. He does not even consider it necessary to make any reference to the position occupied by his predecessor - a position whether it was regarded as a commitment or not, a position that was diametrically opposed to this. Is that not so? 
We are concerned to win the debate and I think we are doing pretty well. We will leave the numbers to the Government because we know that it has enough people to win the vote irrespective of the arguments. We know that the Government has lo win on the numbers. 1 am speaking here for the purpose of winning the debate, not winning the numbers. The Minister can have his say in a moment and then we will see whether he can put up a better case in opposition to what I am saying than the case I am putting. He can leave the debating to me. The new Minister for National Development avoided the issue like the plague. Why did he avoid the issue if there was not some reason to want to avoid it? Not only that. The right honourable gentleman who by accident and fortune is at present the Prime Minister of Australia chose to make a statement in the House this morning in which he too chose to ignore the matter. He chose to make no reference this morning to a change in policy. He chose to make no admission that there had been a change in policy which could have misled both the Minister for National Development and the Ministers of the States. This was completely avoided and ignored. 
Of course, the whole thing has come to the surface today simply because of our motion of no confidence in his Government. It is obvious not only that the right honourable gentleman and the new Minister for National Development had something to hide but that they deliberately chose to hide it. What they chose to hide was that their own then Minister for National Development had made a commitment or had given an undertaking - call it what you like - to the Ministers of the States. 
It was the policy of the Government at the time, so it must have been a commitment. If it was the policy of the Government at the time to share control of these waters with the States in some way - a way open to debate and discussion - then the honourable member for Farrer must have put it to the Ministers of the States in his discussions with them. He had no alternative but to do that. Now it is admitted that since he did it there has been a change of policy or a change of position from the one that was occupied by the honourable member for Farrer. Everything that he has said in this House since he first spoke has been confirmed up to the hilt by the amendment that was moved this afternoon by the Government. 1 want to sum up what 1 have to say. Not only was this the dishonouring of an agreement made with the State Ministers by the honourable member for Farrer as Minister for National Development in this Government in March 1969 and in September 1969 to the effect that there would be a sharing of responsibility between the States and the Commonwealth. Nobody thought of anything else until the indication came from the High Court that powers were different. That was in August. Not only was this the dishonouring of an agreement for a certain kind of law or a certain kind of regime. It was also the dishonouring of an agreement to go back and discuss that - and, most vitally, to go back and discuss if there was to be a change of policy. If the Minister is going to preside over a government that will dishonour agreements in this way once, he will dishonour agreements again. 
This was also the use of centralised power. It was an arrogant act by a man who has been responsible for several arrogant acts on other occasions. It was the act of a man who will come in and make a decision because he has become convinced that that decision is right, no matter what his colleagues - whether they be in his Government or in some of the State governments - might happen to say. He is priding himself upon this. He is priding himself upon being such a man. 
Of course, the judgment has to be made on this matter and I would not expect political supporters whose retention of their seats depends upon backing their party to allow these things to have the faintest influence upon their decisions, even when they take self-righteous positions on moral grounds, or on always being independently minded men, as the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  does. But every time he has to put his vote up to test that, he goes to water. Not only do I say that this is the case- 
The Opposition does not propose to vote against this amendment. It does not seem to me that there is any harm in inserting the provision that in the performance of its function the Corporation shall have regard to the current monetary policies of the Commonwealth. It seems to me that it would bc inconceivable that a corporation of this kind could operate without having regard to those policies. If the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  sees any possibility of that, he sees a possibility of division, perhaps, between the Department of Trade and Industry and the Treasury. He would be much more aware of that than I would be, and perhaps from his point of view it is necessary to provide a safeguard of that kind. If that is his reason for the amendment I can understand it. lt seems to be, however, that clause 7 (5.) provides adequately for the Reserve Bank generally to control the amount of money borrowed by the Corporation and, therefore, to control the amount of money that the Corporation can lend. I think that subclause 5 is meant for that purpose. I think also that it would be inconceivable that the board of the Corporation could look at sub-clause 5 and not carry into operation a policy which was in accord with the monetary policies of the Reserve Bank. Any view that the honourable member for Lilley might have that the board might operate in a contrary way seems to be a very strange view from a man who is as conservative as he is. I can see no reason for it other than his obvious desire to ensure that the Corporation, being the creation of the Department of Trade and Industry, will not operate contrary to the policies of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank. Of course, if he thinks it necessary to make that clear by an amendment we will not vote against it. 
The Australian Labor Party opposes the 2 amendments moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The second proposed amendment to clause 8 asks for the addition of the following words at the end of sub-clause (2):  and that the company has made every reasonable attempt to secure assistance at appropriate rates from banking or financial institutions usually engaged in such type of arrangements and without success. 
The Opposition would hope that this Corporation would not always be a lender of last resort. It hopes that in some cases it will even be a lender of first resort. But knowing that the Corporation is going to be borrowing money overseas and elsewhere at high rates of interest it is very unlikely that it is going to be a lender of first resort. The Opposition thinks there are enough restrictions on the Corporation already without providing any more. 1 think the second amendment could come only from a person who, whether he knows it or not, is a spokesman for the existing lending institutions. The Australian Labor Party is the spokesman for people who need to borrow money, people who do not have money. The honourable gentleman who moved this amendment can only be a spokesman for those who arc lending money. He wants to restrict competition. He is not an advocate of competion. He is trying to restrict competition and in effect he is saying: 'Look, here is a corporation which could compete with some of the banks. 1 think that is a bad thing.' Well, 1 think it would be a good thing to have most of the banks more effectively competed with than they are at present. If this Corporation could give the banks a bit of competition at least in the fields defined it would be an excellent thing in the public interest. I have no time for the spokesmen for the private financial institutions who have found their way into this House. 
The second point raised by the honourable gentleman was the matter of control. He says he wants control denned at 15% of the shareholding. Control can be exercised and is exercised in the case of many so-called private corporations with much less than 15% of the shareholding. In some cases the controllers of big private corporations may have only 1% or 2% of the shareholdings. They are able to hold control because the rest of the shareholding is distributed among tens of thousands of people who have no way of competing against these professional managers whose control is based on a very small percentage of the shares. I agree with the Minister at the table, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  that the powers of the Corporation are already seriously limited - limited too much - by clause 8 (3.) (a) which says: (3.) The Corporation - 
Shall not provide assistance to a company except al the request, or with the consent, of that company. 
Clause (3.) (b) is a similar kind of clause. I would like to see the Corporation able to go out and search for business and not be restricted, as those clauses restricted it, to assisting companies which come to it for assistance. Why should it not go out and give the other lending institutions a bit of competition? Are not honourable members on the other side of the House advocates of competition? Does not the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  consider himself an advocate of competition? Does not the honourable member for Lilley consider himself an advocate of free enterprise and competition? Yet honourable members opposite have spoken tonight in terms of restriction. They fear that this Corporation will provide competition for some of their friends - though I am sure they are not really their friends, because I am certain that very few of the honourable members on that side of the House are in any way friends of the people who control the big financial interests. They may identify themselves with them, and they may think it is very nice to identify themselves with them, but I am quite sure they are not in any way friends. These people are in a much higher firmament than the honourable members opposite who have spoken. 1 think clause 8 (3.) (c) should be read in conjunction with clause 8 (4.) (b). I hope it will be the intention of the Corporation to read these provisions together. Clause 8 says: (3.) The Corporation- 
shall ' endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of  a  company . . . 
As though it would be a terrible thing for the Corporation - a large public body set up by the Government which is supposed to represent in some way the will of the people - to exercise any control over a company which does not in any way express the will of the people. It must be read in conjunction with sub-clause 4 (b) which states: 
The Board is satisfied, as to any of those shares, that retention of the shares is not necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Corporation. 
I would expect the Corporation to take that into account. From time to time it will be inclined to say that it is necessary for the Corporation to retain its shares so as to ensure the proper performance of the functions of the Corporation. I am sure that under a government drawn from this side of the House which is seeking to express the public interest through the will of the people, we would want the Corporation to retain shares in some companies to ensure the proper performance of the functions of the Corporation as set out in sub-clause 4 (b). I do not assume that the Corporation is getting powers now. The Minister interjected when I was speaking to say that he did not intend the Corporation to come in quickly and sell out quickly. I hope that this is not the intention of the Minister or the function of the Corporation. I submit to the Committee that it would be necessary from time to time for the Corporation to hold its interest for a considerable length of time to ensure its proper functioning. 
I will make one of the shortest speeches I have ever made in this chamber. I agree with the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  The amendment has precisely the same wording as the other clause. Therefore, I do not see why it should be accepted. Still, if the Attorney-General wants to do that it is all right with us. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 25 - by leave - taken together. 
 I want to speak when we get onto clause 25. 
I suggest that if any length of time is to be taken on this amendment to clause 25, this would be an appropriate time to report progress. It is now 10 past 1. This matter could be dealt with in a few minutes tomorrow. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 25a. 
irns asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will 1,500 tons of whale meat arrive in Melbourne for import on or about 24th March 1970. 
Is it a fact that this meat will not be subject to inspection because it is held to be unfit for human consumption. 
Can he or any official of his Department say that they can be sure that some of this meat will not be used for human consumption; if not, can he say whether any other government authority can give such an assurance. 
Will this meat be carried in refrigerated trucks and kept in cold stores in which meat used for human consumption and even meat for export is carried and stored. 
If this meat is not inspected how is it possible to be sure it is not infected. 
Does this meat attract a duty on import of .08 cents a lb because whale meat is classifier] as fish when otherwise it would attract 3.3 cents a lb duty; if so, why is it so classified. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he has noticed the extensive published criticisms made by the Textile Council of Australia of the Tariff Board report on man-made fibres and in particular the submissions that the rales of duty decided in that report are unrealistic, that the report is out of date, and that there are many apparent errors of judgment in it. Has his attention been directed to the opinion of one company within the industry that the report will bring to an end the growth of the man-made fibre industry in Australia? Is the Minister concerned about these criticisms from the industry? Will he take any notice of a request for an immediate review of the position before the report is put into effect legislatively? 
This Bill can be divided into 4 main parts.I do so for convenience. There are a number of items on which tariff changes are being made. They are based on Tariff Board reports on gelatine and animal glues; floor and wall coverings; gloves and mittens; secateurs; electric circuit breakers and switch units; and lastly the very sinister sounding gang slitting machines. They are nol at all sinister. They are machines for cutting mild steel sheets. These changes arose out of Special Advisory Authority reports. This is also the case with cherries preserved by sugar - drained, glaced or crystallised. All these items were introduced into the last Parliament and validated by it. The Opposition did not oppose the items at the time and does not oppose them now. 
The second part of the Bill is designed to implement changes which arise out of Tariff Board reports on time switches and movements and parts therefor, compressed gas cylinders, almonds, flexible metal tubing, piping and transmission shafts, taximeters, belts, belting and woven cotton fabrics, drawing, measuring and calculating instruments, syringes, injection or puncture needles, and chlorine and sodium hydroxide or caustic soda, and in addition Special Advisory Authority reports on metal working machine tools, vegetable oils, and curtain hooks of base metal.I do not want to summarise the changes in that section. They were at one stage presented to honourable members in Press releases from the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  Also, they are summarised at the back of the Minister's second reading speech. Therefore, I will not waste time in referring to the actual tariff changes that are proposed. Looking at the reports and at some of the changes in this section I cannot say that 1 am satisfied - this is not an unusual situation - that the changes ought to be made. The Tariff Board reports in a number of cases arc not adequate. But the changes are not of very great significance and the Opposition will not oppose what is recommended in rh's section. 
The third part of the Bill, as 1 separate it, consists of changes that are being introduced as a result of an agreement reached by the Governments of Australia and New Zealand which arc to be added to Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The goods affected are mainly iron and steel. I include in this part of the Bill changes in tariffs on goods that are the products of cottage industries in a less developed country. These products appear in the Second Schedule. The Opposition does not oppose any of these tariff changes. What I would call the fourth part of the Bill is that which implements the tariff changes which follow from the Tariff Board report on man made fibres and yarn and tyre cord and tyre cord fabric. This report proposes significant reductions in tariff. The Government has accepted this recommendation and the legislation before us gives effect to that decision. The Opposition will not vote against the second reading of the Bill but will move in the Committee stage for the omission of the 13th Schedule of the Bill to indicate our opposition to these proposals and to separate that opposition from the fact that we do not oppose other parts of the Bill. If our amendment is not carried we will vote against the third reading of the Bill. So there will be 2 divisions in the next hour and a half. 
Following the issuing of this report of the Tariff Board and the Government's acceptance of it, the Textile Council of Australia published a full page advertisement in Australian newspapers, lt is a long time since a Tariff Board report was received in this way. I want to quote from this newspaper advertisement certain very significant criticisms of the report on man made fibres and yarn, lyre cord and tyre cord fabrics. Firstly, the Textile Council of Australia is the organisation of all lextile manufacturers, it carries, and should carry, very considerable authority in the industry and with the Government. The Council in its advertisement first of all said: 
The Board in ite Report again acknowledged the importance of the industry . . 
But it says that the new rates of duty are unrealistic in their protective incidence compared to duty applying in other countries. I will give some details of that in a few minutes. Secondly, the Council states: 
Much of the material and evidence on which the Board's report is based was prepared and submitted to the Board nearly 2 years ago. 
The Council said that the report is out of date. Thirdly, the Council states in its advertisement: 
The Report does not permit the Government to assess  the  soundness of the Board's recommendations. 
I will refer to this matter also in a minute. 1 would like to say that this also is my own conclusion about the report and that it is a conclusion that I have frequently staled over several years about Tariff Board reports. Some evidence obtained by the Tariff Board in its inquiries is confidential and we in the Parliament and the Government do not know what that evidence is. But judging the Board by the evidence in the reports, this report in my opinion is quite inadequate for the Government to decide whether the Board's recommendation is a proper one or not. 1 agree with the Textile Council of Australia on that conclusion. 
Fourthly, the Council says that the Tariff Board has made a number of serious errors of judgment in this report. 1 can identify and will mention some of them if I have time during the course of this debate. The fifth point made is that the Textile Council joins with practically every other industry organisation in Australia to say that the Board's report places considerable weight upon the so-called effective duty rate. The advertisement states: 
The Council believes that this economic theory has no relation to everyday commercial practice, and that ils application to the  manmade  fibre textile industry is unsound. 
That is a very significant and fundamental criticism. I have seen enough of the way that the Board has gone about its work to agree with that conclusion. The Council then compared the new rates of duty that will prevail if this legislation is carried. There will bc a 10% preferential rate applying to such countries as the United 
Kingdom and Canada and a 20% general rate applying to the rest. Rates of 10% and 20% are very low rates of tariff. They are much below the rates that the Board has been expressing in the last couple of years as an indication of a fair level of protection. The comparable duties in the United Kingdom are 14% and 3d per lb. In Canada the preferential rate is 20% to 22i%. The general rate in that country is 35% plus 20c per lb. In the United States the rate is 45% plus 12.5c per lb, 50% plus 13.5c per lb and 65% plus 45c per lb. In Australia the duties are 10% and 20%. Those people who talk about comparative trade advantages and a highly protected Australian secondary industry should look to the United States for comparative purposes. We have an industry that will be protected by 10% and 20% while comparable rates for the United States are 35%, 45%, 50% and 65% plus additional amounts. In Japan, a country that is supposed to be highly competitive and to which normally the Tariff Board could be expected to pay some attention, the comparable rate is 17%. It is about the same as that in Australia. I do not want later to hear arguments that the Australian rates are high. 
Let us consider another point raised by the Textile Council of Australia. It appears to the Council that the Board's report has not taken sufficient account of the fact that the development of the textile industry, including fibre production, depends upon Australian manufacturers maintaining their share of the market. The developments that may come from this may make a serious difference to that situation. Finally, the matter for general concern, as the Textile Council calls it, is that other Australian manufacturing industries will be concerned with matters relating to this Tariff Board report. This may be an indication that the Textile Council is saying to other industrial groups: 'You had better have a look at what is happening'. I will say more about this in a few minutes. 
The Textile Council asked for a withdrawal of this legislation until the matter can be reviewed. That is the position taken by the Textile Council and the day before yesterday I asked the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  who never takes part in these debates but who is said to be responsible for what happens and who is never in the House except at question time for the House to examine or to bear from him, his explanation as to why it occurs. Because of this extraordinary separation of responsibility for tariffs the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  handles the matter in the House but the Minister for Trade and Industry is responsible and we can never reach him. He is away somewhere in an office. He may come in for a division if he is not paired, but that is all we see of the responsible Minister. In answer to my question he said: 
I am familiar with the grave doubts expressed by the Australian Textile Industry. 
He said that he was aware of the grave doubts and he looked as though he were aware of them. He looked grave himself. He said that he was going to take no notice of what the industry said and if it so happened that any harm looked like being done to the industry it could make an immediate application and an inquiry by the Special Advisory Authority would be set under way and an emergency duty could be provided. 
This is a new way of making tariffs. This is the experimental approach. I do not think that we have had an example of this so far. The Australian Labor Party will not accept the experimental approach in the making of tariffs. Irreparable damage may be done and I oppose this action for that reason. But I oppose it also mainly for the reason - and I will say much more about this presently - that I believe that the Tariff Board is not now equipped to know whether an industry is economic and efficient and is not able to report to the Government so that the Government itself can know from that report whether an industry is economic and efficient. That is the main reason why we are opposing this schedule. 
An examination of this report shows that there is little evidence in it justifying any reduction in tariffs. The report reads something like the judgment of some judges on the bench. If we read through the reports of their judgments we see how they go carefully through the evidence but we cannot judge what side they are going to come down on until right at the end when they make their decisions. There is no indication in the judgments which way they are going until they give the reason. 
If they gave the very opposite reason at the end and reached the opposite judgment it would still be equally as logical. This Tariff Board report discusses the condition of the industry and leaves one in doubt as to how it is going to come down until it finally gives the recommendation. If the recommendation had been just the opposite it would have fitted the report just as well and just as logically. Of course, 1 knew what the recommendation would be before 1 read the report so it rather spoiled the report. Most people like to keep a mystery until the end and when one reads a murder mystery one does not like to know who has done it until the end. I felt rather frustrated with this report because it was a mystery all the way through, but 1 knew the killer's name before I picked up the report. It was very disappointing for me. 1 should have liked the name of the murderer concealed until the end, but I knew it before I started the report. I could never have guessed from reading the report who was going to be held guilty until finally it emerged. 
It is clear from the report that imports can reach Australia in large volumes and at lower prices than similar products can be produced in Australia. This is not disputed by me or by anyone else, but that fact is usually an argument for a tariff, not an argument against it, provided the Australian industry is economic and efficient. In this case the Board reports that there is no reason to doubt that the industries under review are, in general, technically efficient. The fact that there may be a large volume of imports coming to Australia at lower prices than we can produce them would normally be a reason to protect that efficient industry, but apparently in this case it is a reason to reduce the protection. Honourable members can understand from this example how difficult it is to arrive at what the recommendation is going to be until the recommendation is reached. In this case it is about the opposite to what would normally be expected. Not only do I think that this industry is efficient, but I would agree with the Board that it is apparent that industries in this field in Australia are as efficient as their parent companies overseas; and overseas their parent companies and their competitors are protected by a tariff as high as or higher than the Australian tariff. 
There is much humbug about the attitude of some of the critics of Australian tariffs who assume, because they do not know, that countries like Japan and America are much less protected and that their world competition has such a powerful and beneficial effect. But 1 do not think there is another country in this field that is not more adequately protected than is Australia. Japan is one of the most adequately protected countries, not only by tariffs but by all sorts of other measures. This idea that the cost of a product reaching the port has some kind of validity as a measure of efficiency is the kind of rubbish that should have gone out with Little Red Riding Hood. The assumption that underlies the attitude of a lot of critics is the assumption of perfect competition. If we assume perfect competition, there is validity in this, but perfect competition never existed and anything close to it never existed. In the field of international trade it is more absent than it is in any other field. I will have a look at some of the special reasons for this in relation to this industry in a minute or two. Before I do so I point out that it is apparent also that this industry is as efficient as other sections of Australian industry. In the case of the largest of the producers in this industry the report shows that in 1967 the value of production per employee exceeded $10,000 per annum. I am quite sure that if all those wheat farms we have heard so much about in the past week or two were turning out $10,000 per annum per employee, and more, they would be in a much better position than they are in. I am sure also that the dairy farms which are in difficulties would not need so much assistance if they were turning out $10,000 per annum per employee. This figure is high for Australian industry in general. It would seem that the main base upon which the Tariff Board has arrived at its conclusion - and there is nobody here to defend the Tariff Board- 
Well, is there? There is no one here to defend the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
 I said the Tariff Board. Is there anyone here to defend it? 
All right. Is there anyone here to defend the right honourable the Minister for Trade and Industry? 
The former Minister for the Navy is a Goliath indeed. He is at least back in his element. Those aircraft carriers and destroyers with which be was previously associated now have to look after themselves, but he is again back in his element. It would seem that the main bases on which the Tariff Board has arrived at this conclusion are referred to at pages 9, 10 and 11 of the report. Page 9 of the Tariff Board Report on Man-Made Fibres and Yarn, Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabric, states: 
Textile Organon' estimated that world capacity to produce non-cellulosics would rise by 29 per cent. ... by December 1970; it expected nylon capacity to increase by 21 per cent. . . . In the same period, the world capacity to produce cellulosics was expected to increase by 4 per cent. . . . 
Courtaulds said that the world over capacity to produce cellulosics was between 10 and IS per cent of total capacity. . 
There is great excess capacity in this industry in a number of countries, but not in Australia. The Tariff Board report sees a downward price movement and at page 10 it discusses this under the heading Overseas Price Movements': 
While prices of cellulosics have remained fairly stable, prices of non-cellulosics have continued the downward trend which was evident at the previous inquiry. 
The evidence suggested that prices of nylon staple fibre and major warp knitting yams in Britain and the United States of America fell by more than 40 per cent between 1960 and 1967, compared with a fall of about 30 per cent in prices of major bulking yarns. 
The argument appears to be that there is great capacity in other parts of the world - excess capacity - which will lead to more fibres coming onto the world market and that consequently prices will fall; therefore the Australian industry has to be compared with this development and the Australian industry is therefore not inefficient and economic compared with this development. It is quite apparent that this over-capacity is the result of a lack of wisdom in the planning of industries overseas. It is clear, as the Tariff Board reports at page 10, quoting Fibremakers the largest company in this industry, that the cost reduction factor which is the essence of the situation arises from such factors as the adoption of new and improved technical developments and/or profit reductions stemming from chaotic or disruptive pricing conditions caused by vast excess capacity. The report chooses to quote from evidence submitted by Peerless Mills which opposed any increase in tariff. I do not think anyone asked for a reduction in the tariff. Some manufacturers in other parts of the industry opposed an increase, but I do not think anyone asked for a reduction. The Board referred to evidence presented by Peerless Mills which included a quotation from a paper given by F. H. Gruen, Professor of Agricultural Economics at Monash University. A summary of what the Professor said is set out in the report, and reads:  technology for production of synthetic fibres was no longer difficult to obtain;  there was a growing number of world producers of synthetic fibres;  costs of production would continue to fall; 
It is apparent that vast excess capacity and disruptive pricing conditions are the main factor in the oversea situation. They may operate to reduce prices and costs but sooner or later excess capacities and disruptive pricing conditions will change. In the meantime the Australian industry can be seriously damaged by the existence of these things. As I have said, this situation is usually taken as an argument for protection and not as an argument for the reduction of protection. 
I think that already there are signs in Japan of reduction in capacity. There are reports that the Japanese textile industry, particularly the man made fibres part of it, is now a most unprosperous industry and that there are cutbacks. It is apparent that they have gone into a far greater capacity than was reasonable or necessary and it is clear that capital will be taken out of the industry. This is usually given as an argument against the future of Australian wool exports, because the Japanese textile industry is not supposed to be in a condition to be able to pay any more for Australian wool than it is now paying. However, there has been plenty of evidence of excess capacity in Japan and there is evidence also of a cutback. If this occurs it may be only a temporary situation and it may change within a year or so. A position such as this is usually taken to be a reason for maintaining a tariff so that the problems caused by a perhaps temporary excess capacity might disappear and the industry in Australia will not be damaged while it is operating. I have examined this report and I am satisfied that there is not sufficient in it either to justify the recommendation the Tariff Board has made or to justify the Government accepting that recommendation. Consequently the Opposition will vote against the Thirteenth Schedule and finally against the third reading. 
In conclusion I wish to make a few general remarks about tariff policy. Tariff policy in Australia has for a long time been the subject of controversy, but it has been a very sterile controversy. Over many years few changes have been made. Tariff making in Australia has. I think, shown few changes or innovations since the Tariff Board was established.' However, recently there has been a change. Until recently no one could doubt that the Board and the Government would stand behind any Australian industry that was economic and efficient and ensure its continuance as a source of income and employment for Australians. No section of industry and no section of the public could in the past have doubted that. However, the change I mentioned is that this is no longer the case. The Tariff Board has shown thai it wants to reduce tariffs, sometimes by considerable amounts, over a wide range of goods. When this became apparent last year the Minister for Trade and Industry came into this chamber one night in his very confident manner and dismissed the Board and the course that it intended to follow as shown in its report of the year before. There would be none of this, said the Minister. Neither he nor the Government would accept any of it; it would be the Government and not the Tariff Board that would make tariff policy. However, on the first occasion the matter has come into question it is the Board thai has won and the Minister who has submitted. 
Recently this Government has been Government of retreat, lt has retreated from its stand in relation to tariffs, as I am indicating; it has retreated from its stand about introducing a civilian alternative to conscription; and it has retreated from its stand in regard to the off-shore oil and mineral legislation, lt is a Government of retreat. The Minister may have been outvoted in the Cabinet. From the way he answered the first question I asked him some weeks ago, I thought that he might have been indicating that he had been outvoted in the Cabinet on accepting and implementing the report on man-made fibres, because he answered the question in a way that made it possible so to interpret it. I have seen him doing that .sort of thing now for quite a number of years. In this case the Board has recommended a substantial reduction of tariffs for a significant Australian industry. The Minister admits that he is aware of grave doubts in the industry and of extensive public criticism of the report by the Board. Industry representatives have been to see the Minister and, although it may have been quite unusual, he saw them; but he did nothing to prevent the implementation of the Board's report. I believe that the Board has won and the Minister has lost. Where now is the Minister who proudly boasted in this House that he had no room for fancy theories and would never allow protection to be taken from an Australian industry that was economic and efficient and which provided employment and income for Australian workers? This is for the Minister to answer. 
The Australian Labor Party stands for a number of principles in this matter. The first is that we will guarantee protection to Australian industries that are efficient and economic. The second is that we do not consider that protection can be solved by abstract theories of free trade or protection that often assume conditions of competition that do not and never have existed in real life. Next, we believe that a correct decision can bc made about protection only if we know the facts. We do not know the facts now, as the Tariff Board is not equipped to ascertain them. Recently the Prime Minister said: 
To enable the Government to exercise its responsibility for tariff policy, it is clearly necessary  that  it should have available to it in the Board's reports the fullest possible knowledge of all the elements relevant to each particular case. 
I submit that the Government docs not have, in the Tariff Board's reports, the fullest possible knowledge of all the elements relevant to each case. I suppose that in no report of the Board that I have seen has this standard ever existed or even been approached. Recently, the Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
The advisory body has to assemble all the facts. Then it has to reach conclusions or judgments which will stand against the facts. Lastly, in reporting its conclusions, the advisory body must draw attention to all the relevant facts on which those conclusions were based and explain why, in the light of those facts, the conclusions were reached. 
The Tariff Board does not do that, lt has never done it, and it has not done it in this case. The advisory body has never done this, either. Indeed, in reading some of its most significant reports, one can never be sure in which direction the facts one can find are pointing. Often the facts would fit conclusions directly opposite to those adopted by the Board. I believe that the report we are examining here is an example of that. 
I submit that at least 2 important changes must be made soon, because several changes in the Australian industrial structure have to take place. It will be impossible to maintain the industrial structure in anything like its present form, as it will be impossible to maintain the structure of primary industry in anything like its present form. I believe that we must have properly equipped boards or commissions of inquiry in each field, both for primary and secondary industry, to examine, find the facts and make the recommendation. The Australian Country Party is not adequate as a board of inquiry into the condition of primary industry. It is not proper that the Country Party should make the recommendations for assistance to primary industry: It is proper that a properly equipped, objective board or commission should be operating for this purpose. These boards or commissions must be fully equipped to ascertain all the facts and to weigh and measure them accurately. 
The Tariff Board must have more qualified staff and must be computerised. I am not criticising one member of the Tariff Board or of the staff of the Board for any lack of efficiency or for any personal deficiencies. It is merely that, first, the Board is not equipped to ascertain the facts. Secondly, the board or commission that makes the inquiry must extend its inquiries into the inter-relation of the industry in question with other industries. In particular, it must trace the product through wholesaling and retailing, for it is astonishing that hardly a significant manufactured product in Australia today does not come to a price, before it reaches the consumer, that is 3 or 4 times the price when it leaves the factory. It is ridiculous to talk about efficiency in production if one is looking only at the factory. It is time we looked at the wholesaling and retailing situation to ascertain why there is such a fantastic increase in the price by the time the goods reach the consumer. Thirdly, the inquiry must be continuous. There is little hope of ascertaining the facts when the Board makes a stab at them for a few days every few years. 
In this case, the Board met, I think, once in Sydney and once in Melbourne for 2 to 4 days. It met twice in its public inquiries. It made private inquiries and obtained information from overseas. It sat around desks and talked to people. But that is just an amateurish way of trying to solve the problem. It is ridiculous to meet for 3 or 4 days in public in Melbourne and 3 or 4 days in public in Sydney, then make some private inquiries and produce a report about a significant Australian industry. That is a horse and buggy concept and it should have been thrown out when that age ended. 
In the case of the greater part of Australian industry protected by tariff there has been no inquiry for years or no inquiry at all. I am sure the honourable member for Wakefield will agree with that statement. As the Tariff Board is at present equipped I suppose it would take about 25 years to cover the field. How can we talk about what is economic and efficient in such a situation? It is just humbug. It is an amateurish sort of situation. 
The Australian Labor Party will not continue to support tariff making in those circumstances. As soon as Labor becomes the Government we will make all those changes necessary to equip those whose duty it is to obtain the fullest possible knowledge of the facts. We will equip them, whether in respect of secondary industry or primary industry, and we will help those who seek and deserve protection. We will not continue to work in the dark in that dismal twilight period between private enterprise and ill-informed government interference. The Government must exercise responsibility for tariff policy but it cannot do this yet because its advisory bodies are working in the dark. We must bring Australian economic activity into the light of day so that we know the facts. Only in this way can we reduce the effects of ignorance and sectional pressures which together have done so much to harm Australian economic growth. 
That is the position that the Labor Party adopts. I have discussed this legislation in as much detail as I think the House would need or tolerate. I seriously ask the Government to pay attention to the man made fibres industry. I do not expect the Government to review it - 1 expect it to continue wilh this legislation - but the Minister has given an undertaking that the industry will be carefully watched and that if difficulties arise the matter will be referred to a special advisory authority. This is a very significant industry, lt is one of the most efficient in Australia, lt has considerable possibilities of development horizontally to the polymer raw materials that could be obtained under much better circumstances than they are being obtained now if a plan for the industry can be envisaged. This is greatly needed. It is a very serious matter. The Opposition is very disturbed at what is occurring and we will vote against the Thirteenth Schedule and against the third reading of this Bill. 
I think I should make a few comments in order to reduce the area of disagreement which might exist between the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and myself. I have looked at the operations of Everett Products Pty Ltd of Portland very carefully. Like the honourable member, I approve of this method of fixing the duty at 42%. The factory is being treated as a new one. It is better equipped and more modern than the old factory. One provision is that in 1972 the duty will be reduced to 30%. I think that this is a very good principle to adopt. I think it is very satisfactory. As far as I am aware, this is the first time such a principle has been adopted. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Ninth Schedule. 
I move: 
Omit the Schedule. The Opposition does not object to everything in the Thirteenth Schedule. However, the Opposition objects to the substance of this Schedule and for convenience I do not intend to try to separate the items that we accept from the ones we do not accept. The Opposition objects to the substance of the Schedule and so I have moved to omit the lot of it. 
It simply returns the position to what it was before the tariff report was made. It returns us to the status quo- to the position as it was before. The amendment I have moved if carried will prevent the Thirteenth Schedule from operating. It will prevent the reduction of the duties that the Tariff Board has recommended. 
Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for his co-operation since he has become Minister and for the way in which this co-operation has been given. This has made my work much easier and I should have expressed my thanks when I first spoke. I would like to mention in passing one or two points that have arisen out of the second reading debate. I think I challenged speakers on the Government side of the House to defend both the Board and the Minister. I would say at this stage that I did not think the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  put up a very effective defence of the Board or that the Minister put up a very effective defence of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  I think the honourable member for Wakefield supports the Tariff Board right or wrong. He said that he could never vote against a recommendation of the Tariff Board. I think this is a very blind spot on the part of the honourable member. 
No-one in this House, nor in this country suppose, wants high costs. We all want low costs. We want the lowest possible costs. It is very superficial thinking for the honourable member for Wakefield and others to think that because they stress low costs they are the only ones who want low costs. That appears to be the way in which they put it. No-one wants high tariffs. We want the lowest possible tariffs. I would say the same thing about tariffs as I said about costs. However, I would say that without effective tariffs we would have little secondary industry in this country and without effective subsidies we would have many thousand less farmers in Australia. As a matter of fact, we would have very few people. It is possible that we might have a better society if this were the situation. We would be a slightly larger New Zealand and we might have a better quality of life in such a society. But that is not our situation. Our situation is that we have an industrial structure and I think that in that industrial structure there must be change. 
The only question is: How can this change be brought about? I think there is an alternative view in this Parliament and also outside it. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  mentioned the Vernon Committee, the Tariff Board and others, and also himself. I think they represent one point of view. As I understand it, their point of view is that of simplifying tariff to a bench mark type and, I must stress, of lowering tariffs. I do not know what the definition of free trade is. Is it no tariffs at all? If one stands for the lowering of tariffs, as the honourable member for Wakefield and all the other people he talks about do, one does not need much knowledge about the industry, in the way of facts. One can have an amateur Board, as I have been calling it. One can have an experimental situation. One can say: 'We will lower the tariffs in connection with this industry' - as you are doing in connection with schedule 13  -  'and see what happens.' I do not think the Tariff Board is saying much more than that. I will concede that it might work out all right, but if it does, it will be a result more of chance than of informed judgment. The approach that the honourable gentleman and others take is relatively a free trade approach; it does not need factual knowledge. This experimental way of making tariffs is quite appropriate for it. I do not think it is unfair to say that we have been using an experimental way of making tariffs. 
There is another way of going about it. That is what we stand for on this side of the House, and I think it is what the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has' stood for. But changes are taking place among the social and economic class of people who have previously stood behind the position of the Minister for Trade and Industry. The second , way of going about it is by recommendation based on the fullest possible knowledge of the facts. The Minister for Customs and Excise quoted the Minister for Trade and Industry as saying something like this: The Board provides the Government with adequate knowledge. My point of criticism is that the Board does not provide the Government With adequate knowledge. It is not possible for it to do so now. I think we need a larger advisory body. We need a manufacturing industries development commission. We need a body which understands that its job is to work out what is necessary for the development of the manufacturing industries. 
1 mean particularly in numbers of staff. There is much more work to do - an enormous amount, lt has to be continuously at work, continuously searching for facts and continually watching facts here and overseas in co-operation with industry and working closely with it. I oppose schedule 13 mainly because that condition does not exist. I oppose it more for that reason than for the risk involved in schedule 13 - the experiemental method, with the Board saying: We think it is safe - we cannot put it any stronger than that - to reduce these tariffs. We will give it a go and see what happens.' The Minister says that if something harmful happens, a special advisory authority will get to work to reduce the harmful effects, litis is an experimental method. It is one way of going about making tariffs, but it is not the way I want. It is not an informed way. Do not let us kid ourselves. This report is not worth having as a document. If could have been written without making any inquiries at all. This is not good enough for a country in 1970. 
We all desire the lowest possible costs and the lowest possible tariffs, but we must have effective tariffs and these tariffs are going to be pretty general in Australia. They will cover practically all, if not all, of our secondary industry. In some cases they are going to be higher than they are now. In other cases there will be quantitative restrictions within the next few years. The nature of these tariffs and other forms of protection that will come from this kind of work is the type of system existing in West Germany and Japan. Already those 2 countries are more adequately and effectively and sensitively protected than Aus. tralia. To believe that Australia is in some way a more protected country than Japan or West Germany is to misunderstand completely the sophisticated nature of the protection existing in those countries, lt is time we woke up to this sort of thing and realise that those who blithely talk about Australia being over protected apparently talk about Australia being over protected in relation, to Japan or some other country. If this is so then they do not know what they are talking about. Japan knows more about protecting its industries than we in Australia have ever imagined and in Japan it is done much more effectively than we do it here. 
The Opposition opposes the schedule because of the reduction of tariffs on the man made fibres industry. They are far below the bench mark before the reduction and they will be very much below it now - 10 to 20% or thereabouts. This is a very low tariff indeed. The Opposition opposes the schedule because we think there is a risk involved to an intricate, complicated, technically developed industry and we are not prepared to take that risk. Members on this side of the chamber oppose the schedule mainly because we do not have the necessary, equipped advisory board. I look forward to the appointment of a board or a commission capable of doing its job in the last quarter of the 20th century, lt is lime we came out of the first quarter of the 20th century, where we still are in our tariff making procedures. For those reasons the Opposition opposes the Thirteenth Schedule. 
I have just a couple of points to make in conclusion. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has been most euloguistic about the Tariff Board report; it is the best he has ever seen. But nowhere has he given us any indication why he thinks this. He has simply given us his opinion: he has made no attempt to analyse the report or to deal with or refute any of the criticisms of it that I made. He simply gives it his imprimatur. This may be enough for some people, but it is not enough for most. 
The Minister has suggested that we may reconsider our decision to vote against the 13th schedule. He pointed out that the temporary duties do not apply unless the 13th schedule is passed, in saying that we would oppose the schedule I mentioned that there were some parts of it thatI did not want to oppose but that rather than separate those parts from other parts, which would have involved a good deal of work and time.I proposed to vote against the whole schedule to show our opposition to the implementation of the proposals arising out of the report. However, for quite a number of reasons, one of which is the time, I do not intend to divide the House on the 13th schedule, and we will let it pass, having made it clear why we oppose it and what parts of it we do oppose. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
ns asked the Minister for  the Navy, upon notice: 
When was HMAS 'Brisbane' received into the Royal Australia Navy from the United States. 
What was the cost of the ship. 
Is this ship now in Garden Island dockyard undergoing extensive repairs. 
What is the cost of these repairs, and who will pay for them. 
Why are the repairs necessary. 
ns asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many mature age scholarships are given each year. 
What qualifications do applicants require. 
When do applications close, and when are applicants notified of the results. 
What is the value of the scholarship to the individual student. 
Do scholarship winners obtain any lax concessions on any expenditure they may make in undertaking the education the scolarships facilitate. 
ns asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
is it a fact that the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board recently refused to pay $70 transport costs of an Australian entry to the Cannes International Festival of Painting held on the French Riviera. 
Will he consider whether it would be an advantage to have Australian modern art sponsored abroad to this extent by assisting entries to the Cannes Festival of 1970. 
I direct a question to the right honourable Minister for Trade and Industry. The Customs Tariff Bill 1970 had a provision in schedule 17 for the reduction of tariffs on man made fibres. After that law was passed, did the Minister or his Department have representations from the industry for action to be taken to offset the effect of those tariff reductions? If these representations were made, were they considered and has any action been taken since that Bill was passed through this Parliament to offset or modify the effect of those tariff reductions? If so, what action has been taken? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he can assure the House that he will take action to ensure that never again will any young man be imprisoned for 11 months, or any period, before it is discovered that he has a conscientious objection to military service entitling him to exemption from it? 
I thoroughly agree with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  that in these questions of prices, costs and wages we must do something a little different. It has been argued for quite some time by professors, journalists, importers and primary producers that tariff protection in Australia is excessive. It has been claimed that the Tariff Board has lost its independence and has been induced by the Government by policy written into references, by reference back of reports and by public and private pressures to recommend higher tariffs than it would otherwise have done and to give up or modify stated intentions to simplify or reduce tariffs or to set an upper limit to tariffs. On the other hand there have been equally persistent claims from manufacturers and industry generally that they have been left in uncertainty about tariff protection and that often when protection comes it is unable to offset import competition established on the basis of extreme exploitation of labour and dumping of surpluses without regard to cost of production. Theoretically there are claims that once full employment is secured by monetary and fiscal policy there is no need for tariffs, and that then resource allocation should be left to the market. On the other hand it has been claimed that some have evolved a philosophy to justify tariffs which has turned On its head Marx's dictum that everything that exists deserves to perish and which has replaced it by the principle that everything that exists deserves tariff protection. 
Tariff making in Australia has shown few changes or innovations since the Board was first established, and the controversy of recent years has had little discernible effect upon it. But a change has taken place. For many years no-one could have doubted the attitude of the Government and the Tariff Board. It was to encourage positively the establishment of industries in Australia and to ensure their continuance if they were efficient and worthwhile. The standard of efficiency was practical and realistic. Tt was judged on what could be seen in Australia in other similar kinds of employment, and the product was judged on its quality and value in a similar way. In fact, this was the meaning of the principles set down by the Interstate Commission in  1914.  Now in  1.970  we can have little doubt that if these have not been the principles and if this had not been the attitude of governments and the Tariff Board Australia's manufacturing industries would be a fraction only of what they are now and our capacity to employ people would be far less. This means in turn that the total Australian population would be far less and that as a nation we would be a slightly larger New Zealand spread around our  3  million square miles with few links in between. 
No-one can be sure of the attitude of the Tariff Board or the Government. There can be little doubt that the Tariff Board wants to reduce tariffs in size and number. I his is the only possible meaning that can be given to the  1967  and  1968  reports. From what I have seen, there is not much in the  1969  report nor in the current report. But the Government wants to keep its options open, lt wants to please the Treasury, primary producers, financiers, financial newspapers and its few academic supporters, but it does not want to offend manufacturers. The  Chairman  of the Tariff Board has been given page after page in the columns of newspapers which strongly favour tariff reductions to explain what these reports, obstruse enough in themselves, really mean. But the result is something far less clear than the reports in the first place. 
Among the thousands of words used by the Board and its Chairman none has been used to explain why 50 per cent was chosen as the ceiling for the rate of effective protection or to suggest where are the low cost opportunities for employment of capital and labour now employed in industries with over 50 per cent effective tariff protection. The Government now wants a bob each way. It no longer has one bob on which to rely. It still holds left-overs of the Bruce-Page, Menzies-Fadden-McEwen coalition traditions now under attack by a combination of primary producers, multinational corporations and financiers to secure a considerable reduction in the size and number of tariffs. But the old LiberalCountry Party coalition has gone forever. Both the young Liberals and the young members of the Country Party, increasingly indistingushable, will speak with the voices of the multi-national corporations and the financiers ready to see large scale units with foreign capital take over both in the cities and in the country. 
There can now be no room left for doubt about another matter. The modern laissez faire economy - that is monetary and fiscal policy, wage freeze and the welfare state - cannot get the allocation of resources needed for a great national effort or for any other purpose. It is idiotic to think that we can allow gross national product, and especially the resources allocation necessary to produce it, to take whatever form it does as a result of value judgments induced by the national and multi-national corporations and their State apparatus, and then by taxation and borrowing hope to get an income distribution and/or a resource allocation that is significantly different. We need the means to get the resource allocation we want in the first place. This is why contemporarily we have a choice for the development of secondary industry in Australia between tariffs and planning. This too has been recognised by leading American economists. I regret that it does not seem to have been recognised by any Australian economists except those who are not lead ing economists. In America, James Tobin has written: 
It the overwhelming problem of democratic capitalism in the 30s and even in the 50s was to bring the business cycle under social control, the challenge of the 60s- 
And it has not been met-  is to bring under public decision the broad allocation of national output. 
Our starting point for planning in Australia can well come from this stream of American thought. John P. Lewis has pointed out: 
Since the producer groups are political as well as economic power centres, the Government is in some respects an agent confronting its political superiors. It cannot force large segments of business and labour into courses of action they strenuously resist. 
It must be recognised at the outset that Australia is not an appropriate place for the development of planning. Many countries once less politically advanced than Australia have, during the past 20 years, outstripped Australia in obtaining the means to get the allocation of resources they need to meet agreed national purposes. But Australia, relying alone upon growth euphoria, has made almost no progress in this important field. 
Planning involves participation and cooperation. In Australia we have institutionalised conflict rather than fostered participation and co-operation. History has provided industry and labour, and sections of them, with means to assert their interests, then to disagree and clash, and then we bring in authority to impose penalties upon offenders. Invariably we have developed an institution, such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Tariff Board, with all the trappings and atmosphere and sometimes the power of a court which hears the sounds of conflict, pretends to be uninfluenced by them and finally emerges with an edict supposed to be objective and impartial. In all this the word 'independent' has been used to sum up what is supposed to exist, and by 'independent' apparently it is meant that the Commission or Board must not be linked with or sympathetic to any of the interests about which it judges. 
What, however, is needed is a body that will be honest, well informed and accurate in its work and decisions. The word 'independent' so often describes a court or  a  board that is legalistic, presumptuous, uninformed and often sympathetic with one side in a dispute or problem and invariably the voice of the government of the day. This is the very antithesis of that which in Australia is essential - and I mean planning. Planning should begin with initiative or participation by the people concerned and results in co-operation between those who must act if results are to be obtained. Regulation or control begins with recognition of some problem or conflict and moves immediately to some edict by some authority, sometimes the result of subterfuge or pressures from interested parties but more often of bureaucratic origin or application. This undemocratic process has grown rapidly in Australia until thousands of private and public officials made arbitrary decisions each day bearing down upon the community which has no appeal and mostly no knowledge of what has happened. This process is something that moves from the top down and not from the bottom up. 
Increasingly there has been recognition of the need for economic targets over a specified period, and for joint planning towards these targets. It is recognised that there will have to be much improvement in communications between industry, sections of industry, industry and labour, and much improvement in interdepartmental communications. The alternative is merely to continue with the old method of waiting until a particular industry or concern, or the economy as a whole, goes wrong and then act generally or indirectly with whatever speed or delay the bureaucracy can manage. But I am not sure that the kind of planning that is being thought of is anything more than that envisaged by  Sir John  Crawford and comes from recognition that large scale is economically more efficient, that economic efficiency is the only thing that counts and that sooner or later all of our output will come from a few large scale units, manufacturing and primary, and the sooner that is, the better. 
But I doubt whether planning of this type may be acceptable. Certainly it should not be. The essential value of planning, in contrast with the old or contemporary laissez faire, and in contrast with the envisaged ruling elite of big business managers and big public servants, with a few big trade union leaders in attendance at cocktail parties, is that it can provide a means for small people to have a say in the making of decisions, which either they have never had, or now have lost. I believe we need a plan for planning designed even more to widen and intensify democracy than for efficiency. Yet, I cannot imagine how anyone can think a system will work efficiently when more and more people are denied a say in the way it works and in which their own lives become more and more dull, drilled and apathetic and work becomes a drudge. Is there efficiency in the frustration, apathy and cynicism this breeds? Is there efficiency in the aggressiveness and hostility it fosters? Is there efficiency in the strikes and stoppages it makes essential and inevitable? Are we beginning a year of efficiency when the year 1970 began with predictions of war between employers and unions because the arbitrary system of arbitration has broken down and its ignorance of facts and its edicts will no longer be accepted? I agree with the honourable member for Lyne that it is time we had a little change. 
I hope business leaders, and in particular big business leaders, will realise there is an alternative to this modern jungle of economic relations. But the alternative does involve initiative and participation by more people; it involves new machinery of communications within the economy and between it and the Government and it does involve building the institutions that are necessary 'to bring under public decision the broad allocation of national output', to quote what was said recently by an American economist. I think the decisions that are involved here are decisions that involve a far greater degree of knowledge than we have been able to muster up to the present time. I think the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  recently laid down objectives which are sound enough in themselves. The Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
First the advisory body has to assemble all the facts surrounding each case. 
It has to know all of the facts. The Prime Minister stated: 
To enable the Government to exercise its responsibility for tariff policy, it is clearly necessary that it should have available to it in the Board's reports the fullest possible knowledge of all the elements relevant to each particular case. 
We have never achieved this. Until we can achieve this standard and apply it in practice many of the problems that we have in this field will certainly remain with us. 
On 9th June 1970, as recorded at page 3139 of Hansard, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made what appears to be an attack on the Sunshine City Council. He said: 
The Sunshine Council in Victoria is under very strong Labor influence. In the last 5 years it has increased rates by more than 60 per cent. These are the principles which the Party opposite implements in its administration of local authority affairs. It increases those taxes and charges which are most regressive. It increases them in such  a  vicious manner as no other local authority in Australia would dare to copy. These are facts which it is impossible to refute. 
I will simply refute all those things. They are not facts. I wonder where the honourable member for Lilley got them. I wonder why he chose to use them on 9th June in the debate. I wonder whether there is an explanation for this. As a result of having this speech drawn to my attention  -  I did not hear of it until sometime after it was made - I checked the facts with the Sunshine City Council and I will relate them to the House. I will deal with the 5-year period in which the honourable member for Lilley said that the Sunshine Council was under very strong Labor influence; that it had increased rates in that 5-year period by 60 per cent and that it was done in such a vicious manner as was equalled by no other local authority in Australia. That is a rather strong and fantastic charge. 
In 1965-66 the net annual value in the Sunshine City Council area was $11m and the rate was111/4c in the $1.In 1966-67 some new principles of valuation were laid down by the Liberal Party Government which was in office in Victoria and they had to be applied by every municipality. 
As a result of this new development the net annual value in Sunshine became $11,216,566 in 1966-67. In that year the rates were increased to 14c in the $1. But what the honourable member for Lilley apparently does not know is that in 1966- 67 there were 4 Labor councillors on the Sunshine City Council and 8 non-Labor councillors. The 4 Labor councillors opposed the increase in rates from 11c to 14c in the $1. In 1968-69 for the first time Sunshine had a Labor majority. The valuations now, as always, are arrived at by the independent professional valuer employed by the Council, as in every other municipality, and that valuer applies the rules and principles laid down under the appropriate local government Act. That independent valuer increased the net annual value in Sunshine in 1968-69 to $16,300,566 but the rate was decreased to ll1/4c in the $1. So the first time that there was a Labor majority on the Sunshine Council the rates were decreased to111/4c in the $1 from the 14c they had been the year before under the influence of 8 nonLabor councillors and 4 Labor councillors. 
The valuation had gone up to $16,300,566 but the honourable member will know that the valuation has nothing to do with the councillors and that it is decided by the independent professional valuer employed by the Council who applies the rules and principles laid down in the Local Government Act which in this case is an Act containing the rules laid down by the Liberal Party Government in office in Victoria. 
I am not arguing about that. I am arguing whether the honourable member for Lilley was right in saying that they had increased the rate by 60 per cent in 5 years and I should imagine that even the Minister for Health, who often finds it difficult to take a dose of anything, would be able to understand that. In 1969-70 the net annual value in Sunshine was increased again but only by a few hundred thousand dollars and for the first time under Labor the rate was increased to111/2c in the $1. This is only one-quarter of a cent above the 1965-66 rate. So the fact is that in the 5-year period in which the honourable member for Lilley said there had been an increase of 60 per cent under a Labor controlled council there was an increase of one-quarter of a cent from111/4c to111/2c and it was only in the latter 2 years that there had been a Labor majority at all. 
In commenting on this recently Councillor Coulson of the Sunshine City Council pointed out one of the real problems that a city like Sunshine has to face. It is a new city, developing at a very fast rate and it has an enormous work burden on the Council, it is an astonishing thing that the rate has been kept at only one-quarter of a cent above what it was 5 years ago. Councillor Coulson pointed out that if all the Commonwealth properties in the municipality had paid rates equal to what could be levied against them, the rate to the general rate payers could be lowered to about 10c or less. Councillor Coulson said that the ex gratia payments from the Commonwealth amounted to less than $3,000 per year which was not enough to cover the amount of damage caused in1 year by Commonwealth traffic on the roads in the municipality.I would have thought that the honourable member for Lilley would have been concerned to point out these things. First of all, I would have thought that he would have been concerned to get the facts before he made the accusation which alleges that there was a 60 per cent increase in rates in the last 5 years and that this increase was done in such a vicious manner as no other local authority in Australia would dare to copy. It seems to me that this is a judgment more upon the honourable member for Lilley than it is upon the Sunshine City Council. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
At end of motion add 'And condemns the Gorton Government for its failure to end conscription for Vietnam*. 

 Mr Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is under censure from the Government for a reason that has nothing to do with what he said or with the effect of what he said. He is under censure from the Government that knows it cannot maintain office because of its own performance, and which, therefore, tries to divert public attention from itself - to create at least a mild form of hysteria and persuade people that there are others whose faults are even greater than its own. This is not an attempt to examine what the Leader of the Opposition said or the need or justification for it; it is an exercise in the most cynical form of politics that exists. What has the Leader of the Opposition said? First of all he said that if he were speaking to a man who already objected to the war in Vietnam he would tei) him what course he should take if in fact he were called up. The Leader of the Opposition was talking not about young mcn who do not object to the war in Vietnam or to people in general but about young men who already object to the war in Vietnam. What did he say he would fell them? He said he would tell them that they should carry out the law to the full extent their consciences would allow. But the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of course, has no room for conscience in this country. He just said so. He has no room for conscience because he imagines that he and his Government and the forces behind it are so ultimately democratic that there is no need or room for conscience in Australia. If he thinks that, I do not. 
What did the Leader of the Opposition say he would tell these men? He said he would tell them to carry out the law as far as their consciences would allow. If they were in the Army and were ordered to go to Vietnam and they could not in conscience go. then they would have to disobey orders given to them and disobey those orders at their own cost and penalty. This is a right that is recognised in every civilised country. It is recognised by all those people who have led our thinking in philosophy and theology and have given us a civilisation upon which the democracy of today is based. But the Prime Minister has no room for conscience in 1970 in Australia because he and his Ministers happen to be in office. There is no room for conscience any more. No doubt that is how members of the Government parties look at it. Could they tell these young men to put aside their consciences altogether? Men who know nothing of conscience could do that easily. Could the Leader of the Opposition give them no advice at all and leave it to them to be totally unprepared for what might happen to them once they were in the hands of authority? No doubt that is what members of the Government parties would do - they who have amongst them many who are young enough to volunteer for Vietnam but do not. Yet, on the contrary, they force other young men into the military service against their consciences or into gaol for long months for judges to find and report that they should never have been there at all. 
If honourable members on the other side of the House have any conscience at all and this will not stir them, then I can conclude only that their consciences are faint and cowardly. No, this is not the Labor way of doing things; it is the Liberal way of doing things - the smart, polished, suave Liberal way of doing things. I know which I prefer and 1 refuse to believe that the Australia people could be so devoid of a sense of fair play that they would prefer the method of the Prime Minister and his followers. It may be difficult for Liberals to understand that there are thousands of young men who are convinced in their opposition to the blood bath in which Australia is involved in Vietnam; who are opposed to conscription for that purpose and to every aspect of the Government which enforces it upon Australia, and who will have nothing to do with the Citizens Military Forces. The CMF is no alternative for boys in this position and anyone who, like the Leader of the Opposition, has talked to them knows that the CMF is no alternative for them because they will not have anything to do with the military service which is tied to this blood bath for which members on the Government side are all responsible. If they do not know that they do not know the young men with whom we are dealing and that is the whole point of the submission I am making. They know nothing of these young men in their cynical detachment and their superior positions. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the man who just sat down and I want to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  said that I was advocating this: 
If you do not like what the civil authority does you set out to break the law. 
He said that was the advice I was giving to people. That is completely false. What I have said, and what I say, is this: If a person has a deeply felt conscientious objection to a law he may refuse to adhere to that law. He will then have to face and undergo any and every legal penalty that may be imposed upon him for breaking the law. What I say, and what I have always said, is- 
You should cut out your claptrap for a while and listen. Instead of opening your mouth all the time open your ears. What I have said is that he has a moral right to resist the law when it conflicts with his deeply held conscience, but he has no legal right whatever unless that is provided for in the law. I hope that Government supporters will at least listen to that and give me the credit for speaking clearly and without equivocation. I do not in any way say what the Minister has stated. On the contrary, what I have just told the House has been my position with respect to conscientious objection ever since I first spoke on it 15 years ago and it remains unchanged. That is how it is today. 

 Mr McEWEN (Murray- Minister for Trade and Industry) - I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has misrepresented me. I was led to say what I said in good faith by the words which have been circulated, I think, by the honourable member for Lalor, in a speech that he made. When addressing some people he said: 
You have to exercise power wherever power is, and Parliament is not the only place where there is power- 
He said a lot more including- 
I sincerely hope that authority has had its day. 
There is no greater authority than the law of the land. I read this to mean that he hoped that the law of the land had had its day. I withdraw nothing of what I said. 
I wish to make a further personal explanation. I am sick and tired of twisted misinterpretations in this House. I do not intend to sit and listen to them. I have been personally misrepresented. What the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has to say has nothing whatever to do with conscience, has no relation to the principle of moral conscience and is in no way a contradiction of what I have just said. 
irns asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the agenda and scope of the Industrial Mobilisation Course conducted by bis Department 
Which industries are called upon to provide representatives on this course. 
Does the Defence (Industrial) Committee actually attempt to co-ordinate military and indus-' trial needs. 
If so, is he able to give some examples of this co-ordination. 
I second the motion. The motion is a very serious one and it involves a serious criticism of the Prime Minister. 
Does it not sound like it? 
It is a very serious motion to move that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  lacks the confidence of the House. The Opposition has moved the motion because we believe there is a strong case - much stronger than a prima facie case - that the Prime Minister has been willing to give directions to a government department for purely political reasons. He has been prepared to give directions to the Australian News and Information Bureau to go out and get photographs that he intended to use for political purposes - not to use as Prime Minister and head of this nation. He intended, not to use the News and Information Bureau within its charter, but to use it for purely petty Liberal Party political purposes. 
If the Prime Minister of this country will openly - and I suggest the evidence clearly demonstrates it - use a government department for a purpose like this he will use any government department for a purpose like this. He will use any power he possesses for a purely political purpose. If the Prime Minister will do this once he will do it again, and if it can be shown that he has done it once there is a probability that he will do it again and, therefore, he does not merit any longer the confidence of this House. He is no longer impartial in the sense of using government departments for their proper function. He has shown, I believe, that he will use government departments for a purely political purpose. This being the case he cannot be trusted as Prime Minister of this country. There are many other reasons. Not only has the Prime Minister been prepared to use a government department for a political purpose but he has been prepared to see the evidence collected by that government department changed and distorted to make that political purpose more effective, even at the expense of a distortion. 
What we are witnessing today is a government that is prepared to design a system of spying and surveillance in modern, democratic Australia. The Prime Minister seeks to justify using a government department, using the police, using anyone else to go around with cameras and tape recorders to take evidence of ordinary Australian citizens in ordinary political activity. The Prime Minister of Australia is supervising the introduction of the early steps of a police State in this country. This is the first criticism 1 have to make of him. I have never heard a Minister in this Parliament until now justify conduct of this kind, but the right honourable gentleman not only does it, he justifies it. He justifies a system which the one-time Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Chifley,  called a system of spies, pimps and perjurers'. 
The episode we are considering involves an alteration of evidence. This is not as strong as perjury, but is plain and clear deception. The Prime Minister intends to give the Australian people notice that he is prepared to introduce this into this country and the Australian people must take notice of what the Prime Minister is telling them. The Australian people must be prepared to say whether they want a Prime Minister of this kind or not. The Australian people must be prepared to say whether they want a system of this kind or not - a system in which public servants are used for overtly political purposes. For a long time in and around this House public servants have been used for these purposes under the Government of the present Prime Minister. One has the feeling all over the House that people are watching what is going on and that they are being paid with public money in their departments to watch what is going on, that we have a system of surveillance going on in this House and that the Prime Minister is prepared to give that his authority. He has said so. He has said that he will give it his authority. It is for the Government and its supporters to say whether they want a system of spies in and around Parliament House, equipped with tape recorders, equipped with cameras, walking around the corridors and outside the House spying on people and being paid public money to do it, That is what the Prime Minister has given notice to this country that he intends to introduce into it. 
Not only do we have a system of spies and people with cameras and tape recorders but they are paid as public servants for doing this work. In addition they do not hesitate between them - that is, the Prime Minister and those he employs - to give a false impression of what they are able to pick up in their spying activities. In this case they said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was speaking beneath a Vietcong flag. That was the whole purpose of the exercise. This is well known around the House. One has only to go outside here and now to encounter two or three journalists who would say that they know that the Prime Minister asked  Mr Eggleton  to ring the News and Information Bureau and get a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag, lt is well known around the corridors of the House that this is what the Prime Minister asked his Press Secretary to do - not to go out and get some photographs that might be used to defend the police if there were any criticism of the police. It is specifically spoken around here by Press men attached to various newspapers that it is well known that the Prime Minister's Press Secretary was asked to ask the News and Information Bureau to get a photograph of  Mr Whitlam  speaking under a Vietcong flag. It did not succeed in getting a photograph of  Mr Whitlam  speaking under a Vietcong flag. The photograph which the Bureau got of  Mr Whitlam  - it has been tabled in the House of Representatives, and it is evidence presumably that came from the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  - shows the Leader of the Opposition speaking but there is no sign anywhere of a Vietcong flag. 
That did not prevent various Government supporters, including the honourable member for La Trobe, from getting a photograph -  1  think the Prime Minister himself used the expression - of the Leader of the Opposition speaking under a Vietcong flag. There is the photograph, but there is no sign of a Vietcong flag on it. The only evidence of the association between the Leader of the Opposition and a Vietcong flag is in a 'clipped' photograph. What a beautiful word - 'clipped'. I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  called it dark room deception. The Prime Minister has been in a dark room before, and he ought to be extremely suspicious of dark rooms. 
What happened, of course, is that the only photograph showing a Vietcong flag does not show the Leader of the Opposition speaking at all. He is not shown to be speaking on this photograph, lt shows him simply standing, presumably listening to someone who was speaking to him. There is no evidence on any of these photographs to indicate that the Leader of the Opposition was speaking under a Vietcong flag at all, as has been claimed by Government supporters. There is further evidence that they are prepared not only to clip photographs in the dark room to get a particular result, but also to twist the descriptions which they give to what they have clipped in the dark room. Why did they clip this photograph? Firstly, let me ask the question: Why did they select this photograph and not other photographs which were available? They selected this photograph because it shows the Leader of the Opposition in a crowd where also there is a Vietcong flag as though it was close to him, as though it was part of the crowd, as though he would be aware of it, as though it would support their accusation that he was speaking under a Vietcong flag. 
I have a photograph which also was taken by the News and Information Bureau. This photograph was available to the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister and to the honourable member for La Trobe in their consultations in some room somewhere or other. It. shows the full width of the road between the Leader of the Opposition and the Vietcong flag, fi shows the Leader of the Opposition in exactly the same position as tie is in the other photograph and talking to exactly the same person. I repeat that it shows the full width of the road between him and the Vietcong flag. That is the truth, but that is not good enough for Government supporters. It is a photograph of exactly the same scene, exactly the same flag, at near enough to exactly the same time. But it does not show what Government supporters want. It does not show the flag as part of the same scene. It shows a road between the flag and the Leader of the Opposition, which would not suit their purposes at all. 
Why did they select this particular photograph and why did they clip it down? I have seen photographs of exactly the same scene that are inches larger than this photograph. Why did they clip off the edges, the bottom and the top? They clipped off the edges so that the road would not be seen and the flag would appear to be in the centre of the photograph instead of away off in the distance. They clipped the photograph in order to give a false impression of the situation, and I suggest that when they clipped it they knew precisely what they were doing. 
So the evidence suggests that the Prime Minister is prepared not only to introduce a system of spies, pimps, photographers and tape recorders in and around this House but also to preside over a system which is ready to alter the evidence that those people procure in. order to give an impression that suits his purposes. If the Prime Minister will do this for such a petty thing as to catch the Leader of the Opposition in association with a Vietcong flag, what would he do if the issue was really serious? What limits would the morality of the Prime Minister set to his conduct if there was something really significant at issue? I would not like to make a guess about that, but it seems to me that even if the guess was the mildest one which one could make it is time that this House re-assessed its confidence in the Prime Minister. 
The particular purpose of this exercise was to get a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition in association with a Vietcong flag. Would anyone deny that that was not the purpose of the exercise, or at least a purpose of the exercise? But afterwards, when this photograph is produced in order to make it look incidental, uneventful, just a chance discovery, the Prime Minister says that it was not for that purpose at all; it was to provide evidence to offset claims that might have been used against the police. 1 think this explanation was arrived at well after the event. Had the Prime Minister been concerned to protect the police, was not the obvious thing to do to ask the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  to get in touch with the police department to make sure that the police took adequate photographs with which to defend themselves if the need arose? The police are very well equipped to take photographs, too. You do not have to use the 
News and Information Bureau to get photographs of this kind, if you want them. Would it not have been far more sensible for the police to have taken the photographs?' 
Supposing that the precaution which the Prime Minister was taking proved to be necessary, that it was necessary to produce evidence to defend the police or to clarify a situation in court, would the Prime Minister have wanted to call a member of the staff of the News and Information Bureau to give that evidence? Was that what he intended to do, if the precaution had proved to be necessary? Would it not have been far better, would it not have been the logical and natural thing to do, to have got police photographers to do this? These people are experienced in taking photographs in these circumstances and in giving evidence after they have taken photographs. This, of course, is what should have happened. The Prime Minister's story, that he wanted to use the News and Information Bureau to protect the police, does not hold a drop of water. It is a story which falls down as soon as it is told. It is obvious that it was nothing more than a defence, nothing more than an alibi, to cover the situation when the Prime Minister realised that he was in an embarrassing position. 
The other point, I think, that goes to confidence in the Prime Minister is that he did not take the Minister for the Interior into his confidence when he was arranging this thing. If the Prime Minister had wanted to have photographs taken, would it not have been natural for him to ask somebody to get in touch with the Minister for the Interior who is responsible for the News and Information Bureau? How many times does the Prime Minister override the responsible Minister and go through to the department under the Minister? How many times does the Prime Minister get his Press Secretary or somebody to give to a department an instruction of which the responsible Minister is not aware? I would think that the Minister for the Interior would be inclined to join with the Opposition and say: 'I lack confidence in the Prime Minister. He did not ask me to arrange this. He undercut me. He went round me in order to do this.' Why did he do that? Why did he not get somebody to get in touch with the responsible Minister and say: 'Look, your Department has the News and Information Bureau in it. We want some photographs taken. Will you arrange it?' That is the perfectly natural thing to do. What is the good of having a Minister if the Prime Minister is going to do his job? I would think that the Minister for the Interior, if he were able to express his own private thoughts, would be a little bit concerned at the way in which the Prime Minister got one of the members of his staff to undercut him in this way. 
Why did the Prime Minister do this? It may well be that he thought perhaps the Minister for the Interior may not be too willing to see the News and Information Bureau used in this way, to see his Department used for what is so obviously a political purpose. It may be that the attitude of the Minister for the Interior to these questions was different from that possessed by the Prime Minister. I think that when all these factors are taken into account it is time that this business came to a stop. It is time that this House was no longer being used for these petty, stupid political purposes that the Prime Minister of this nation has seen fit to identify himself with in this case. Surely it is an extraordinarily petty thing for a Prime Minister to give indirect instructions to a Government department for one of its members to go out wilh a camera and then to come back - even though he was not told to get a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition under a Vietcong flag - with such a photograph, fs it not an extraordinarily petty thing to have staff, paid 1 do not know how many thousands of dollars a year, go through the photographs and select one of the Leader or the Opposition standing near a Vietcong flag? This is kindergarten stuff. 
It is time that honourable members of this Parliament said: 'We have no confidence in a Prime Minister who is prepared to use his office, for which he is paid $25,000 a year plus allowances and all the rest of it, for this sort of thing.' ls it not time that the Prime Minister used the time of this House for the serious business of the state of the economy? Is it not time that this House discussed the reasons why the farmers are getting ready to come here to show their reaction by demonstration against the bankruptcy of the Government's policy? Is it not necessary that we have the time of this House used in an attempt to implement policy which will correct the distortions that are present throughout our economy? Is it not necessary that we have the time of this House used to discuss what might be necessary in the field of foreign policy when great changes are going on all around us and when no time whatever is taken to discuss them. ls it not time that we discussed in this House what is happening with tariffs, what is happening with the Tariff Board and so on? I have been waiting for weeks for an opportunity to try to discuss these things. I was able to speak for only a quarter of an hour during the discussion of the estimates of the Department of Customs and Excise the other day and I was not able to take any more time because had I done so 1 would have taken time that other people wanted to use. At the same time as the Prime Minister is doing this he is leading the nation in this trivia and the idiotic matter he is introducing here in Dorothy Dix questions. The only time the Prime Minister ever has .anything to say is when he is answering those questions. Since I have been here I think he has been able to go beyond 10 minutes in making a speech only once, and on the occasion he exceeded 10 minutes he had a carefully typed speech. But whenever he comes in relatively unprepared with a few pages of scattered notes he has great difficulty staying on his feet for more than about 5 minutes. 
I think it is about time that honourable members of this House said: 'We have had enough of this trivia and of this use of Government departments for obviously political purposes. We have had enough of this system of spies and informers who go around this House and outside this House for petty political reasons such as this matter.' It is clearly indicated, and the evidence is overwhelming, that this is for political reasons and therefore I suggest that the Prime Minister does not warrant the confidence of this House and the motion moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should be carried. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned elector of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That he lost 92 copies of his hook 'Epics from Victorian History', valued at $138.00 in a fire at the Melbourne Mail Exchange in November 1967. The books being in the hands of the Postmaster-General whilst in transit from his Publisher, Arthur H. Stockwell &amp; Co. Ilfracombe, Devon. England. That the book was a product of several years patient research, and has been commended by several noted authorities as a valuable contribution to the study of Australian history. That as the book was published in England any legal action against the consignor is virtually impossible, and owing to the high cost of insurance on overseas parcels, and the small amount of profit an author receives from his works your Petitioner has sustained a heavy financial loss through no fault of his own. 
In pursuance to his objective your Petitioner humbly prays that the Commonwealth Government will pay him the sum of $138.00 for the loss of the said books. 
And your Petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Does the Minister for Trade and Industry recall that he recently said: 'I would regard it as utterly ridiculous to decide that an industry was not economic and efficient because some competition had come in from a deplorably low wage country like South Korea or Taiwan'? I remind him also of a statement by the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board recently to manufacturers that he did not agree that the Board's policy ought to be to allow higher tariffs for industries which need them to survive against low wage Asian competition. If this is an accurate recollection of what was said by both himself 
rns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Have representations been made since the enactment of the Customs Tariff Bill 1970 for changes in Schedule 13 of that Act, or for action to offset or modify the effect of that Schedule. 
If so, what were these representations, and what action has been taken as a result of them. 
ns asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he, in the hope that it will guide action to ensure preservation of all species of kangaroos in Australia and of pastures at the same time, arrange for discussions with State Ministers and his own Ministers particularly those who have presented petitions asking for protection for kangaroos and prohibition of export of kangaroo meat and skins, to see if a cease fire in the killing of kangaroos hi Australia can be decided upon and enforced until the report of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation becomes available. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the electors of the electorates of Kooyong and Chisholm respectfully sheweth that Australian troops are engaged in senseless and wasteful aggression in Vietnam which is destroying the economy, culture, social structure, and population of that country. 
That Vietnam has never been, nor will be in the foreseeable future, any threat to Australian security, or to the Australian way of life. 
That Australia, together with the United States of America and other allies, is preventing the Vietnamese people from choosing their form of government, and is upholding by force a government which the majority of Vietnamese don't want. 
That continued allied aggression in Vietnam would be of no benefit to Vietnam or Australia, but that immediate withdrawal would save many Australian and Vietnamese lives, would bring peace closer to Vietnam, and would restore international respect for Australia's foreign policy. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that all Australian troops be immediately withdrawn from Vietnam. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
I move: 
That the petition be received and read. 
This is the only way . . . 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. He will recall answering a question the other day on a comment by Brigadier Henderson that life for the Australian troops would be tougher. The Minister said that certain qualitative changes were" taking place in the work of the Australian Task Force. I ask him: Is it not a fact that the Brigadier was unaware of these qualitative changes when he made this statement? If he was not unaware of the changes why did he make the statement? Is it also a fact that the Brigadier and other officers believe that there may be an increase at any moment in the pressure faced by the Task Force and that there is risk involved in withdrawal of troops without replacement. 
ns asked  the  Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many United States bases both scientific and military, are there in Australia. 
What is the name, location and purpose of each. 
What  part is  Australia playing in the defence of the United States through the provision of ICBM network tracking stations, aid to U2 Spy aircraft and nuclear submarines and other means. 
by leaveThe Opposition welcomes this Agreement and congratulates the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  on his initiative and on the part that he has played in it. This Agreement has a number of very significant aspects and, without allowing any further time to pass, on behalf of the Opposition I would like to make clear what we think these aspects are. Australia's export situation is very serious; it is desperate. The Minister was reported in the Press yesterday as saying that the decline in wool prices to a point lowest since 1946 is a national disaster. I think it is well for the Australian people, this Parliament and the Government to realise the serious nature of Australia's export situation. The rate of growth of this country is limited by our capacity to export. It is not that the rural industries - the export industries - represent such a large proportion of Australia's gross national product. It is not in this sense in any way that Australia rides on the sheep's back. The significance of exports for Australia is that our rate of growth is limited by our capacity to export. Unless there are significant changes in our exports over the next decade our exports will not allow the rate of growth in Australia that we have had during the last decade. 1 sometimes wonder whether the Minister for Trade and Industry is as much supported by other Ministers of the Government in realising the significance of this as he should be. I believe that unless certain changes take place in the next decade we will not be able to support the rate of growth in gross national product that we have had in the last 10 years. 
What changes could take place that would prevent this from happening. The most important is raising living standards in countries where living standards are now low. In almost every one of these countries where living standards are low there is a significant political situation. The evidence is now conclusive that living standards in these countries will not rise significantly unless there are political and national changes there that amount, in fact, to a national revolution. Yugoslavia, according to the Minister for Trade and Industry, is now growing at a strong rate. If the economies of less developed countries are to grow at a strong rate there must be significant political and national changes. But Australia is not on the side of those changes. It has not been easy for the Australian Government to reach a trade agreement with Yugoslavia, because Yugoslavia is a Communist country. 
It is not easy for the present Australian Government to show any sympathy to those forces in the less developed countries which must come to the top if there is to be the increase in the living standards of those countries that can generate a demand that will help to solve Australia's export problems. This is all too apparent in the case of China. The old order in the less developed countries will not and cannot produce policies that will allow rising standards, but the Australian Government has identified itself with the old orders in the less developed countries. There can be no appropriate, amenable arrangement to allow Australian exports to increase unless the attitude of the Australian Government changes. We know very well that in some parts of the Australian Government the attitude has changed. We know that the Australian Country Party is in favour of trade with China. We know that the Country is in favour of trade with Yugoslavia. We know that the Country Party would be in favour with trade of any of these new national emerging forces despite their politics, because the Country Party thinks in money rather than in ideology in these matters. It gets the best of the deal, of course, by being as anti-Communist as anyone else and it talks to an audience which does not find it apparently inconsistent to sell $200m to $300m worth of commodities to China at the same time. 
Iron and steel as well. They do not see any inconsistency in selling these products to China at the same time as it is said: 'We are in great danger because of the downward thrust of China'. The Country Party is supported by people who are realistic enough to accept both those deals or unable to see the difference between them. The point I want to make strongly is that the first change that has to take place in the Australian Government's policy is to establish a more favourable relationship with those people in the less developed countries who have come to the top if those economic, social and political changes have to take place in those countries that will allow their living standards to develop. The old order cannot do it The old order is made up of landlords, aristocrats, officials, generals and money lenders like- 
Like you would be if you were there. The Minister is a landlord - an old aristocrat. He is part of the old order and is just like the people in Latin America. If he were in Latin America or in Rhodesia he would be exactly the same as those who dominate those countries and who have no thought whatever for the poor people but who believe in their own superiority. 
I shall show the relevance of this. What I am saying is that I believe the Government is responsible for this bombing. I think the Government has been soft on these Yugoslav terrorists. The very day that these people assembled outside of the Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney who should walk along the street at that time but the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  What did he say when interviewed by the Press? He said: 'These are fine men; they are great migrants to Australia and it is great to have them'. The Minister was talking about the people who are bombing Yugoslav Consulates. 
What happened in Geelong? You have the ignorant and you have the unaware. The then Minister for Immigration attended a function in Geelong at which there was a photograph of Ante Pavelic who is the symbol and god of these people. But what did he say? The former Minister said that he thought this person was the  president  of the club. There are people in this Government who know the difference between Ante Pavelic and the  president  of a club and who are thoroughly sympathetic with the Croatians who are responsible for this terrorism. 

 - Mr Speaker, my argument is that it is not much good a government signing a trade agreement with a country if ministers in that government are sympathetic with people who bomb its consulates. 
It seems to me that there is a close link between these 2 things. I am sorry that the point is cutting members on the other side of the House so deeply. Its effect is showing the intensity of its relevance. I cannot for a moment fail to put this point. Indeed, I would be failing in my responsibility if I did not put it. While the Government has been in office the Yugoslav Consulate has been bombed 5 times. No arrests have been made and as far as I know no-one has ever been questioned. 
I am sorry that it is embarrassing. 
Orders have been formulated to be interpreted by me and I cannot see that this matter has any relevance. 
1 think 1 have made the point very clear. I conclude by asking the Minister for Trade and Industry, who in the past has done a very creditable job - he has done more than any other Minister in this field in the history of this country - whether he is satisfied with the attitude of other members of his Government to the country with which he has just signed an agreement? 
The Minister for Trade and industry  (Mr McEwen)  is again the harbinger of bad news. Recently he told us that what had happened to the price for wool was an international disaster. He has now informed the House that we face a national disaster in respect of a number of other products. The Minister mentioned beef, veal, mutton, lamb, cereals, milk powders, condensed milk and cream. The situation must be causing a great deal of disquiet not only to the Australian Country Party, which is very fully represented in the House at the moment, but also to the Liberal Party, which is hardly represented at all in this place at the moment. The difference between the number of seats occupied at the moment by members of the Country Party and those occupied by members of the Liberal Party is nothing less than astonishing. About 90 per cent of Country Party members are in their seats, like crows in the wind, but the Liberal is hardly represented at all. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has supervised the drift of Australia into this situation. The seriousness of what was happening with our trade with the United Kingdom and Europe first became clear in 1963. I well remember the initial debate and the role taken in that debate by the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  But up to now the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Government with which he is associated have done nothing whatever to prepare Australia for the situation which he has just announced. We are producing more of every commodity. We are now producing more than when we first recognised that we faced this crisis. The right honourable gentleman has refused to take any initiative to protect the Australian farmers from walking into the trap that 
Britain's entry into the European Common Market has represented for six or seven years. The Minister has done nothing to prevent the Australian farmer from walking headlong into the trap of producing more although he well knew that the markets for that increased production would not be available. The Minister wants to get it both ways and has hopes that have no foundation in fact or in the future. 
The first thing which is not apparent from the right honourable gentleman's statement is whether Britain is breaching our trade agreement with that country. He has told us that the trade agreement is terminable by 6 months notice by either side. I would like to know whether we have been given notice. The right honourable gentleman has not told us. 
In that case the British cannot bring their system into operation as the Minister has said they intend to do. The right honourable gentleman says at page 4 of his statement: 
The British Government will introduce the new measures when its discussions with overseas suppliers have been completed. 
The right honourable gentleman adds: la any case, the objective is to bring them into Operation at least by 1st April 1971. 
That is less than 6 months from now. So, the British Government is to break the trade agreement with Australia if what the right honourable gentleman says is true, Slid  noi  a word of protest is heard about ft. What is the use of a trade agreement with a country like Great Britain that is supposed to have been so favourable to Australia if that country is to be allowed to get away with breaking that trade agreement without one word of protest by the responsible Australian Minister. 
We turn to the important question of what can be done. The Minister is sending the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry to London. What an utter and complete waste of time. If what the right honourable gentleman says on the second page of his statement is true, he must know that it is a waste of time sending the Deputy Secretary of his Department to London. The Minister states: 
It is clear to me that this is a deliberate move to adapt their arrangements- 
That is, British arrangements:  . . in view of" their prospective membership of the European Economic Community when they would be adopting the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC. 
Of course it is a complete waste of time sending the  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry to London for talks. This is the best that the right honourable gentleman can do in the circumstances. 
I think that it is appropriate to have a look at what has been happening to Australia's markets because this situation that we are  Witnessing  now - the imposition of levies for the first time in history upon the export of these basic commodities to Britain - lead the right honourable gentleman to say: 
. for the first time the Australian products concerned will be faced with real barriers to trade in this traditional market outlet. 
It is time that  we  had a look at the market outlets to see what has been happening to them. The right honourable gentleman may be aware of what is happening to our market outlets but he has never informed this House about what is happening to them. He  has  never invited the House to have a discussion about the trends. He has never raised any of the questions about why the trends are changing and how perhaps they can be made more favourable where they are changing favourably and less so in other places. 
There is a decline in our trade particularly with the United Kingdom and with most of the countries in north eastern Europe, in particular, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and Norway but, I emphasise, not with France or Italy. Over the last 10 years our exports to France have risen from about $50m to about SI 20m. Our exports to Italy have risen from $17m to $70m. Our imports from France have risen from $47m to SI 06m. Our imports from Italy have increased from $16m to $78m. Why is it that our trade balance has been much more favourable with France and Italy and less favourable with the other countries? The right honourable gentleman has not asked us in this House to analyse this trade situation and has not suggested what can be the reasons for this situation. 
But with our more traditional markets, our exports have decreased. Our exports to the United Kingdom reached their highest figure of $516m in 1964-65 but have declined since then. We have a fantastically high level of goods imported from the United Kingdom. The level of imports 10 years ago was $340m. This has risen to $845m now. Our imports from the United Kingdom are nearly twice the value of the goods that we sell to that market. Is there not some way in which the right honourable gentleman can bargain here? We are taking from the United Kingdom goods worth over $800m. It is taking from us goods worth about $400m. Is not that $800m of goods worth something with which we can bargain in this situation? Will the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Trade be in a position to be able to bargain? 
I think that this is the kind of situation in which the right honourable gentleman himself ought to go to Britain. He ought to be telling Britain that she cannot expect to send forever over $800m in goods to Australia - this figure has been rising constantly over the last 10 years - as though nothing had ever happened. He ought to be there telling Britain that she cannot : expect to have this kind of market in Australia when our best customer, Japan, bought $1,000 in goods from us last year while we were able to buy from Japan goods worth over $400m only. Is it not time that this situation was put into some context? If Japan is to buy from us goods worth $ 1,000m, we will have to face the situation. I should imagine, before long that we will be  buying  more from Japan and we will be telling Britain that we will be buying less from her. 
All right. Well, let mc talk about the future. 
There is no easy way out of it. I would suggest to the honourable gentleman who is interjecting that if he would have a little more regard to the mistakes which have been made on his side instead of living in the shadow of them continuously - and the shadow is getting older every day - he would be contributing more to the debate in this House. 
In addition to the position that the United Kingdom is in, there is the factor also of our changing markets. Why is it that we have had such a favourable situation with China? Our sales to China 10 years ago were worth $40m. Today our sates to China are over $130m each year. Undoubtedly the figure would be considerably more if it was not for the political prejudice which exists. Our exports to Hong Kong have risen from S20m to $85m in that decade. What is the explanation for this? Could we not make more of it? Our exports to New Zealand in that 1 0-year period have risen from S60m to $199m. In that same period our exports to the Philippines have risen from S12m to $55m. Singapore now imports $99m of our goods compared with (12m a decade ago. Thailand's imports of Australian goods have risen in that period from $6m to $29m. Our exports to Canada have risen from $17m to $144m in that decade while in the same period our exports to Malaysia have risen from $12m to $68 m. Also in that decade Poland's imports from Australia have increased from $9m to $20in while Australian goods exported to Yugoslavia have risen from $6m to SI 7m in that decade. These are the countries to which we will have to be selling in the future. These are the countries to which we will need to look for a continuation of the rise in our exports. I do not believe that the Government is doing nearly enough work in those areas. 
Finally, even in the face of the market prospects that we have, there will need to be a restructuring of Australian primary industry. It is not much good continuing to expect that we can leave it broadly to a laissez-faire market situation and continue to subsidise primary industry. It is time that this nation decided that we are to have some planning in our primary industrial situation. It is time that we had a department, such as the eDpartment of Trade and Industry, working out future demand for our primary production as the situation will allow us to do so that we will be able to have some anticipation of what the future will hold. Had the Minister done this 6 years or 7 years ago, he must have been able to tell producers in a number of these fields that are so disadvantaged now something about what was going to happen to them and something about what was going to happen to the demand for their products. He would not have had to allow them to walk headlong into this trap that has been laid open for them. 
So, in brief,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  J would say that the situation that we face now has been clear to us for 6 years or 7 years and that the Government has done nothing to prepare for the development that has been announced in such black terms by the Minister this afternoon. It has allowed us to drift into this situation. It has allowed all its supporters in the country to walk into the trap that the declining and disappearing market in the United Kingdom in fact represents for them. Secondly, I would say that the Government has not placed Australia's interests in England in as strong a position as it could place them. Australia continues to buy goods worth over $800m per annum from the United Kingdom at the same time as our sales to that country have been declining continuously. Obviously the Government has not done enough to press Australia's interests in that situation. Thirdly, we must expect the Government to explore more thoroughly the changing nature of our markets and to be prepared to tell the nation and the Parliament more about the reasons why markets in different areas of the world are changing favourably and why they are changing unfavourably in other parts of the world. To mention a few of those countries I have listed, Japan, the United Slates of America, China, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Canada, Malaysia, Poland and Yugoslavia all have certain discernible characteristics and are all open to further expansion of markets if we are realistic about this. 
I am arguing that it could be much more of a success story if we broke away from the old traditional trading links that have been delaying our development. I am suggesting that it could be more of a success story if there were less reactionary politics in our attitude to these new markets. Finally, I am suggesting that unless we have some planned anticipation of expected demand for Australian primary output in the next 5 years and begin to gear our production to that we will have nothing but an enormous burden falling on the Australian taxpayer, whether it be in assisting wool or the other products involved. Laissez-faire plus subsidies is no substitute for a policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
ns asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What was the total number of war pensioners as at 30 June 1970. 
How many of these pensioners received an increase in pension during the financial year ended 30 June 1970. 
Is it a fact that war pensioners receiving from 10 per cent to 70 per cent pension have not had an increase for a considerable time, despite increases in cost of living which have seriously cut the purchasing value of their pension. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Melbourne respectfully showeth: 
Their sincere request that: 
Australia increase financial aid to less wealthy underdeveloped countries to reach a minimum of one per cent of her gross national product by 1971; 
Australia revise her trade and tariff policies and practices in order to make available, both in Australia and overseas, more markets for goods from less developed countries. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that tha honourable members of the House of Representatives will take immediate steps to discuss and to effect the requests mentioned. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I second the amendment and just briefly I should like to say something about it now. Then the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee will have an opportunity to answer the submissions of both the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and myself. 1 support the amendment because Avalon is a totally unsuitable site for a training airport. 
1 think that if the honourable member for North Sydney was living in the vicinity of the Avalon airport he would be even a little more disturbed than he is now. The area in which this airport is situated is a most amenable area. It is a most suitable area for residential development. In fact there will be dramatic and rapid residential development in this area in the next decade. The situation is that Melbourne has grown to the east and to the south because transport facilities - railways, tramways and buses - have taken growth in those directions. The ability to cross the river, an ease of development and some geographical conditions also helped to push the development of Melbourne to the east and to the south, but the construction of the West Gate Bridge - one of the most dramatic pieces of engineering work undertaken in this country - will have the effect of bringing within 14 minutes drive of the centre of the city of Melbourne areas which are now 45 minutes drive from the centre of the city. It will cut down by half an hour the driving time. 
Those areas to which I refer are completely undeveloped. There will be areas of open fields within 14 minutes driving time of the centre of the city of Melbourne after that bridge is constructed. The city of Melbourne will expand dramatically to the west and it will not be long before the whole area between Melbourne and Geelong is one complete metropolis. What the Government is proposing to do is dramatically ridiculous, lt proposes to put a commercial jet pilot training facility in the middle of that development and in the years that pass up to the next decade we will have countless speeches made in this Parliament pointing out the inconvenience that is caused by aircraft flying over this developing area, lt is absolutely ridiculous to propose a thing like this. Of course the Government has shown insufficient foresight in planning Australia's present and future commercial jet pilot training facilities. 
What ought to be done to train jet pilots is to have a special airport for that purpose situated somewhere in an area, probably in New South Wales, where there will not be development for the next half century. Surely we can do more than look a year or two ahead. Surely we can look half a century ahead when we are considering a proposal such as this. It will waste $6m when we could completely build a new training airport facility for $15m. This is the most shortsighted proposition I have ever known to come from the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which in its time has made some excellent recommendations. Avalon is the centre of aircraft construction and it is the logica] centre for aircraft industry. In my opinion it is more logical than is the built up area of Fishermen's Bend. I think that the development of aircraft construction in Victoria can well take place at Avalon. It is ideally suited for this purpose. Before long a large number of residences will be built in the Truganina and Little River areas and around Werribee. 
Of course they could be built elsewhere. They could be built up near Broken Hill, Cobar or some other place like that but homes have to be built for the people who will do the work. Whilst Avalon is an ideal site for the development of an aircraft industry, it is not an ideal site for the development of a training airport. I do want to point out to the House that the opinion of the people who live in that area is not completely at one on this. Some of these people who live in this area think that if this strip is extended it will result in development of the area and that development might benefit them. There are people who live in the area who do not oppose this proposal and that is something I want to bring to the notice -of the House. There are a great many people who live in this area now who are strongly opposed to this development and that is something which I want to emphasise to the House too. But it seems to me that, apart from the attitude of the people who are in that area now and how they might look at future development, it is illogical to build a great airport in the centre of this future metropolis between Melbourne and Geelong. 
The final point I want to make is that there is an international airport only 10 or 12 miles or a little more away from Avalon and $80m has been spent on it. As I fly over that international airport day after day, I hardly ever see an aircraft at the most expensive reception bays there. The airport was most expensive. The construction cost was $80m and the Government is now proposing to spend $6m more on an airport that is only a few miles away from it. I do not think that there can be any case for the development of Avalon Airport for jet pilot training. As a centre for the manufacture of aircraft it is ideally situated and as a residential area it could supply the labour for such a development and it is a developing community. But the residential areas around Little River and over to the You Yangs in Victoria are some of the most attractive parts of that State and there will be dramatic development of residential construction in those areas in the next decade or so. Yet the Government is proposing to put this facility in the middle of this development. This proposition seems to exhibit a lack of foresight in planning Australia's present and future jet training facilities. I think it is time that we called upon the Government through a decision of this House to plan and construct elsewhere a facility for commercial jet pilot training and to refer the development of Avalon airport back to the Public Works Committee. I have pleasure in seconding the motion moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of the Commonwealth, electors of Lalor, respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned over the plight of pensioners whose increased pension in the recent Budget has already been taken up by price increases. They respectfully request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A pensioners' 'Little Budget' to increase the pension rates by $1.50 instead of the 50c now provided: 
A full scale public inquiry into all aspects of post-retirement and income provisions on the same lines as the recent Nimmo inquiry into Commonwealth health services; such inquiry to examine the present pension provisions, consider alternatives such as various forms of national superannuation, and report to the Government on its findings. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable, the  Speaker,  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has, through shooting for commerce, become extinct or rare in many areas of Australia where it was once prolific. 
All scientific evidence points to this decimation of numbers, which is clear evidence that State governments are unable to control commercial shooting within their boundaries. 
We, the people of Australia, feel strong repugnance to the fact that industries should be allowed to operate, which in the past have decimated the koala to extinction over vast areas of this land, and which have now similarly exploited the kangaroo. We feel that the taxpayer should not have the heavy burden of having to pay for the control of an industry which benefits but a few people in this country, and that live kangaroos through their value as tourist attractions are economically far more profitable to our economy and to us aesthetically. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly insist that State governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroos. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government control of all native wildlife throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry noted question No. 2132, which has been on the notice paper since 21 October last, concerning the staffing of the Tariff Board? If he has. can he say when an answer will be available? When does he expect the Tariff Board to have sufficient staff to complete the inquiries envisaged in its reports in 1967-68. 1968-69 and 1969-70 which are not yet completed or even begun? 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the. Chairman of the Tariff- Board stated that the Board is supporting a study project at Monash University on the longer term effects of protection on the Australian economy. 
if so, does supporting the project mean supplying information drawn from that given to the Tariff Board by industries and individual firms; if so, on what authority is the Board, supplying this information.. 
Can he give an assurance that confidential information supplied to the Tariff Board is not being passed on to this outside-body 

 - Mr Speaker, this is a story of the deep south. The Draft Resisters Union wore beards. But many others wore beards too at Anglesea and Aireys Inlet. It has not so far been thought dangerous to wear a beard at Anglesea or Aireys Inlet - in fact, a few of the residents wear beards. But no-one has ever talked in public, at Anglesea or Aireys Inlet, about conscription and the Vietnam war, and when it was found that the Anglesea ranger had given his consent for the draft resisters to put up a screen and show films about demonstrations and the war, it was suddenly realised that Anglesea might never be the same again. 
The officer of police spoke to the sergeant, and the sergeant spoke to the ranger and permission was withdrawn, but not until the draft resisters had set up their screen in the Anglesea caravan park. But now 2 carloads of police, apparently not needed to deal with the unbalanced drivers on the roads or with brawls or housebreaking, descended on the quiet audience straining their eyes to see on the screen the faint images of Chicago police behaving like stormtroopers. No inquiry was made. The police just went into action. The screen was pulled down and the power leads were torn out. The thing had to stop. This, in the deep south, was subversion and sin. 
So days later the draft resisters went to Aireys Inlet. The draft resisters were given permission to use the local public hall and they paid their $15 rent. But once more the underground went into action. The police officer spoke to the sergeant and the sergeant spoke to the Barrabool councillor, and the councillor and the police barred the door of the public hall and told the draft resisters that they could not 'sing that kind of music' at Aireys Inlet. So several days later the draft resisters went on to Lorne. But the  Chairman  of the Foreshore Committee said: 'No, those draft resisters are not coming to Lorne.' He told the 
Melbourne 'Herald' reporter: They're extremists. They stand for peace. They endanger Australia.' So By-law  8  (N and L) was invoked. 
This by-law says that no-one shall speak, sing, pray, play music, assemble or enter into a discussion on the foreshore without the permission of the Foreshore Committee. As the magistrate said in the case of the honourable member for Reid v. Constable Girardi 
. there is no guaranteed right of either free assembly or free speech in common law countries. This very often surprises people who believe their school history books. 
But on 23rd January the draft resisters arrived and set up their screen and their public address system on the foreshore at Lorne. Soon after a member of parliament began to speak. He said that the by-law seemed to have been designed to prevent unreasonable obstruction, noise or nuisance, but that it was being used to prevent people from speaking their point of view. The police arrived, then the  Chairman  of the Foreshore Committee arrived, but they did nothing. The member of parliament went on speaking, but finally running out of ideas he said it was strange that the police and the Foreshore Committee had taken no action. Then he handed the microphone to Harry Van Moorst of the Students for a Democratic Society. Harry is small. He has a beard and long hair. He is the ideal kind of person to arrest, and although the member of Parliament had spoken for 15 minutes and Harry had spoken no more than 100 words he was suddenly grabbed by 2 athletic policemen and dragged roughly away from the microphone. Having arrested him, the policeman dragged him behind some motor vehicles and asked him to give his name and address which, when he refused to do so, gave the constables the legal right they needed for the arrest that they had, without any right, made some minutes before. 
With the microphone now dangling idly in the evening air, the member for Parliament picked it up and said how strange it was that he could give a public address on it and not be interfered with by the police but Harry could speak only 100 words, be roughly arrested and dragged to the cage van and locked up like a stray ddg. Was it because Harry was a student who had long hair and a beard whereas the member of Parliament had short hair, as I remind honourable members? There was a difference. After the member of Parliament had finished speaking the second time, the senior constable and the  Chairman  of the Foreshore Committee came up to him and the senior constable said: 'Very sorry,  Sir, but  you have given a public address contrary to by-law 8 (L and F) and it will be reported to my superior officers.' The member of Parliament said: I should think so after the way you have handled Harry Van Moorst. lt was not long before Harry Van M oorst was before the Lorne Court of Petty Sessions. Here the magistrate agreed wilh the counsel employed by the Crown for this very important case. 'The law never discriminates,' said the magistrate. The member of Parliament gave evidence. He said that be had given a public address and no action had been taken against him. He said that the police evidence against Harry Van Moorst was not correct and that Harry had been arrested without any right of the constables to do so. But the magistrate said that the law had to be upheld. So Van Moorst was found guilty and fined $10. And so the police were once more told by the court that the truth does not really matter when evidence is given. They were told by the court: 'Bring along before us all these students with long hair and beards and together we will teach them a lesson.' But the police and the magistrate since 23rd January have had 24 days in which to take action against the member of Parliament and against a Leader of the Opposition who also made a public address at Lorne on 23rd January. But no action has been taken. 
The law never discriminates! The deep south had spoken, lt is not only part of our geography; it is part of our common law. This story of the deep south in Australia is only one example of many. What it shows, of course, is that in Australia there is one law for some people and a totally different law for others. There is one law for young, long-haired persons who will have listed against them convictions that will be a disadvantage for them throughout their lives, and another law for so-called important people like members of Parliament and other important people who would not be convicted in similar circumstances or even spoken to if it were known beforehand who they were. 
This story shows also that prosecution is often based on careless inaccuracies and sometimes straight out lies. Lies are often told in courts and in many cases magistrates are incapable even of doubting prosecution evidence no matter how improbable it is. The position is so bad that no-one of radical appearance or demeanour can assume that he will even be treated as a person, let alone get justice, in many Australian courts. It is no wonder that tens of thousands of young people have no confidence in courts or other authorities in Australia today and this situation will not be changed by trying to change them. It can be changed only if those applying the la.w at lower levels can become more truthful and fair minded, because it is they who have understandably lost the confidence of most of those with whom they deal. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Government and almost everyone else now assert and agree that there is a serious and even critical national problem - the problem of inflation. If this is so, the Government does not deserve the confidence of the House and the people because what it proposes to do about this serious and even critical problem is insignificant, inappropriate, unfair and even ridiculous. Inflation is generally defined as an excess of demand for goods and services over the supply of them so that there is a continuing increase in prices fast enough to be unacceptable. But there is never a similar excess of demand for every kind of goods and services, and many people never have an excess of demand for goods and services. 
If we are to deal with inflation, we have to know where the excess demand starts and who contributes to it. We deal with inflation by dealing with those who start it, and we stop it from starting if we can. We do not wait until it has gone on for a year or more and then try to deal with its effects. That is what the Government has done. That is why it does not deserve the confidence of this House, lt has watched inflation begin. It was aware of where inflation was beginning and it did nothing about it. 
The ordinary citizen or worker does not have the power to start or carry on inflation. If he is a pensioner, he depends upon the Government to increase his pension so that he can increase a little his demand for goods and services. If he is a worker, he depends upon his employer to grant him an increase in wages so that he can increase his demand for goods and services. But the Government never grants an increase in pensions unless prices have increased already. Employers never grant an increase in wages unless the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has decided that they can afford it or unless the employers themselves know that they can afford it. Most ordinary citizens are not able to start inflation or to carry it on. The best they can do is to try to follow the inflation that is started and carried on by others, and always after a long delay, and to a far lesser extent can they improve their position. Wage increases are a result of inflation, not a cause of it. 
Who then is able to start inflation and carry it on? First of all. there are the trading banks. They can lend out money far in excess of what is deposited with them. They can create money. Secondly, there are other finance institutions such as hire purchase companies, which have close links with the trading banks and which can even more easily expand demand than can the trading banks. At present more money is being put into circulation by these finance institutions than by the banks themselves. They were formed to escape the Reserve Bank's control on the trading banks, so that they could lend free of its controls and at much higher rates of interest. They have become an alternative banking system able to innate the economy outside Reserve Bank control and at the highest possible rates of interest. The Government permitted this and agreed with it. The third area in which money can be obtained as a result of pure economic power is that of the few hundred giant companies which can take vast sums of money from the public for the sale of their products enough to cover all costs and to provide for great programmes of expansion and take-overs as well. They are independent of both the shareholders and the banks. 
The average citizen - the worker and the pensioner - is not in the same position as the banks, finance companies and giant industrial concerns. He cannot get money unless somebody else gives it to him. The banks, finance companies and giant industrial concerns can get money which is not subject to the say-so of anyone else. This is where the power to cause inflation lies. To start inflation and to keep it going one has to have economic power. One has to be able to get a large supply of money as a result of making one's own decisions. Those who have the power to start inflation and carry it on can be seen from the statistics of company taxation. In 1967-68 there were a mere 936 companies in the whole of Australia - a mere .74 per cent of all the companies - that had taxable income of Sl,782m or 56 per cent of the taxable income of all companies. The remaining 138,175 companies had the remaining 44 per cent of income and they would be small companies without any real power at all. The power to determine prices, and therefore to start and carry on inflation, lies with some of these 936 giant companies. 
The power to determine prices is the power to start and carry on inflation. Inflation cannot be dealt with unless that power is dealt with. These companies can turn away from stock exchange speculation when it suits them, bid up the price of land, erect multi-storey office buildings, take over companies until the snowball ceases to roll and then millions of other people have to pay for their power and folly. Not only is this so but the Government was told that it was so by its own Treasury Department. The 'Treasury Information Bulletin' of January 1970 - that was over a year ago - told the Government what was happening. On page 1 it stated: 
The growth in demand continues to be led by private investment spending . . . private fixed investment spending was 15 per cent higher than a year earlier. Bank lending has been growing steadily in recent months . . . total trading bank advances outstanding were over 11 per cent higher than a year earlier. 
That was a clear enough statement and that came from the Treasury to the Government. In April 1970 the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' made it even more clear. Again on page 1 we find: 
Private business expects a massive growth in capital outlays during the current year. 
Such a massive growth in capital could not take place without inflation. The Government, however, did nothing about inflation at the time when it may have been prevented. And so it went on. The 'Treasury Information Bulletin' of July stated again exactly the same thing: 
In total, during the first three-quarters of 1969-70, private fixed capital expenditure rose very strongly and the indications are that this trend has continued in the categories of plant and equipment and non-residential construction. 
But this was not the case in other things. The same 'Treasury Information Bulletin' reported: 
There was however a fall in dwelling commencements for the June quarter. 
Inflation is not too much money and demand everywhere. Inflation is too many multi-storey office buildings for business concerns and too few homes for the people. But again the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' went on warning the Government. In October 1970 the 'Information Bulletin' said on page 1 : 
Preliminary indications are that the very strong rate of growth in demand have moderated . . . Non-dwelling private capital expenditure, however, continues to grow strongly; businessmen expect to spend 30 per cent more on new buildings and structures and 18 per cent more on new capital equipment in the first half of 1970-71 than they actually spent in the first half of 1969-70. 
I think it should have been obvious that this was physically impossible to fit into the economy. This kind of massive growth in big business expenditure, based on massive big business profits derived from the power of massive big business to fix its own prices, could not go on without serious inflation. How can the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  come into this House and say as he did that the Government was not warned by the Treasury about what was happening? How can he say that the Government did not ignore the Treasury advice? lt was impossible for these massive profits and outlays to take place without some increase in wages occurring but the Treasury is convinced that this massive big business activity should go on without any increase in wages and the Government accepts it, believing that it should go on, too, without any increase in pensions. The Government could have got away with this scheme of allowing its massive big business friends to inflate the economy in this way had it not been for the national wage decision at the end of the year. That is the thing that upset their apple cart of inflated profits. 
The 'Treasury Information Bulletin', however, showed as 1970 went on that massive business operations were becoming even more massive but that other forms of outlay were already falling behind. Inflation is never too much money or too much spending everywhere. It is always too much in the hands of some people. Inflation does not come about because of anything that the average citizen, the average farmer or the average businessman does. Inflation is not too much for pensioners, lt is not too much for average wage earners. It is not too much for education. It is not too much for the aged and the sick. It is too much for the banks, the finance companies and the giant industrial corporations which increasingly have their head offices in some other country. The crucial thing about inflation is that it is a result of economic power and it is derived from economic power. It is caused by the ability of the giant business concerns to take money from the public otto create it themselves to use their vast resources to increase further their own wealth and power. Like everything else inflation is a matter of economic power and the more power one has the more one can cause inflation and the more one can gain out of it. Inflation cannot be dealt with unless there is some countervailing of this economic power. 
Inflation cannot ever be dealt with unless the Government acquires enough power and builds up a system of national planning to arrive at programmes of private investment as well as public investment which are not in excess of what the nation s resources can carry and ensures that no business concerns or any other concerns exceed those requirements. But, of course, Conservative governments will never do this. Normally the Government decides to cut expenditure right across the board which hits people who have never contributed to the inflation and leaves those who have in fact caused it free to continue on their way. But if we can judge what the Government has done now about inflation we can say that there is no problem of inflation in Australia. First of all, the Government has called upon those who caused the inflation for restraint, but voluntary restraint cannot work. Which large business concern will restrain itself so its rivals can take its market? This has only to be stated to be seen to be completely inadequate. Then the Government proposes to cut its own expenditure. Certainly in its own expenditure the Government has power to contribute to inflation and the present Government and its predecessors have allowed some forms of government expenditure to expand to extravagant levels. 
The 1970-71 Budget was an example of this but there are some forms of government spending that should never be cut to deal with inflation. There must be no cut in pensions, but there has been a cut in pensions because they have not been increased in the face of inflation. There must be no cut in health services and housing for the average citizen, but there has been a cut in health services and housing for the average citizen. There must be no cut in education, but there has been a cut in education because it has not kept up with the rate of inflation. What can be done about inflation? To deal with inflation I submit we have to prevent it from happening. We do not wait for it to happen and then try to deal with it. We deal with inflation as it is occurring and where it is occurring and, as I have said and as the Treasury Information Bulletins' confirm, inflation starts with the giant business concerns, the banks and other concerns and the great industrial empires which have independent power to get money and to use it to determine their own rate of growth. In dealing with those companies something can be done by use of the powers of the Reserve Bank of Australia but there are weaknesses in those powers. In dealing with the giant companies that cause inflation something can be done by taxation but it must not be forgotten that those giant concerns have the power to avoid taxation by passing it on in their prices as they have with everything else. The crux of inflation policy has to be that the giant concerns must be made subject to the same controls as apply to everyone else. Their price policy must be subject to control by the people through the only means available to exercise that control - this national Parliament. 
There must be a national plan for economic growth and we must establish the planning institutions able to put it into effect. It is completely negative and irresponsible for speakers on the Government side to ignore the possibilities of developing these institutions that have come about in almost every free enterprise country in the world except Australia. Without this we will simply go on forever in this stop-go process of inflation and deflation. Li no other way can inflation be dealt with. In no other way can justice be done to pensioners and other lower income earners. In no other way can the crisis in education be solved. In no other way can the power of the giant companies be prevented from dominating this nation and its people. Unless an Australian government is prepared to devote itself to this objective it cannot earn, and it. should never be given, the confidence of this House or the Australian people. 
ns asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
How many Australians of all Services have been (a) killed and (b) wounded in the Indo-China area since operations began there? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and industry a question about an arrangement to have an Australian fortnight at the Neiman-Marcus store in Texas, ls it a fact that such an arrangement was entered into and that this very famous, powerful and attractive store was willing to spend $100,000 to display Australian products and other items favourable to Australia? Is it a fact that  Mr Marcus,  the head of the store, has written stating that this display was abandoned because Australia was unable to supply sufficient quality goods? Is it also a fact that the explanation given in Australia was that returns in trade to Australia would not have justified the expense? If this is so, can the Minister give the House evidence why this expense would not have been justified in what is one of the most wealthy markets in the world - Texas - least supplied with Australian goods? 
1 desire at the conclusion of the debates in this House this week to support, and I would hope thereby lo strengthen a little the submission made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  (hat the Government must lay down a timetable for the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam and that that timetable must be announced and understood by all without delay. Unfortunately the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  is not in the chamber for the rest of this debate, but I assume that what is said here and recorded in Hansard will sooner or later be read by somebody, even if only by accident. 
It is quite clear that the role of the Australian forces in the Phuoc Tuy province is one which, on the facts, would appear to have no further justification, even if one assumes - I do not - that the Government had justification from the beginning for sending them there. The purpose of the dispatch of these forces to Vietnam has never been clear. When the Prime Minister at the time, the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, announced on 29th April 1965 that these combat troops would be sent to Vietnam he did so in the context of a continuing thrust of China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Nobody has found any evidence of this and no longer does anyone submit that this is a factor which justifies the presence of Australian troops in Vietnam. Now the only stated purpose of Australian forces in Vietnam is to help the Government of South Vietnam to establish Vietnamisation, to establish order - however one wants to describe it - in South Vietnam. If the stage has been reached when the Government of South Vietnam can send 40,000 or 50,000 troops into Cambodia - another country - and 10,000 or 20,000 troops into Laos - another country - it should be expected that that Government has the power to establish order in a small province some 40 or 50 miles from Saigon, a province more than half of which has never at any stage been strongly influenced by National Liberation Front forces. 
Even if the case for the presence of Australian troops in Vietnam is admitted - I do not admit it - it seems that there is no justification for their presence in this province so close to Saigon when so many strongly armed Saigon Government forces can go 400 miles from Saigon into Laos and 250 miles or more from Saigon into Cambodia. That suggests that Brigadier Serong who would be recognised by the Government and the Minister as an expert in military affairs in Vietnam, and perhaps not in the reasons why Australian troops have been sent there, was reported last week as saying that the reason why Australian troops were sent to Vietnam was political in the beginning, that their presence there is political now and that they should be retained there for political reasons. 1 would understand from what Brigadier Serong said that it is political in the sense that it depends upon our relationship with the United States, that we have to do things in the context of our relations with the United States, and that whilst the Americans have troops there we should have troops there and our withdrawals should be related to United States withdrawals. This is clearly a political reason, ls that then the reason why Australian troops are there? Were they sent there for political reasons? Are they still there for political reasons? This is a matter which calls for an answer from the Minister. 
Unfortunately it is not possible in this House to get an answer in a more direct way because a member of the Opposition is able to ask a question without notice only on an average of once every 4 or 5 sitting days and it is not possible to cover the ground a member may wish to cover by asking questions in that way. To ask a question on the adjournment as I am doing now is about the only way to seek information. Therefore, I ask the Minister for  the Army to answer the question, not just now but perhaps on some other occasion: Was Brigadier Serong right when he said Australian troops had been sent to Vietnam for politicalreasons and was he right when he said they should be retained there for political reasons? I do not know how satisfactory this would be to those who have suffered as a result of this involvement. 
One other matter which I think is related to this subject concerns an article published in, I think, the home edition of the Melbourne 'Herald1 on 11th February. It contained a report that a reason for the withdrawal of Australian forces from Vietnam was that it was part of the Government's economy compaign. Apparently this has some foundation. We all know that things will not be reported in a paper like the Melbourne 'Herald' without some foundation. It is of not much satisfaction to anyone to be told that it would be all right to have Australian forces in Vietnam provided we could afford it but if we could not afford it some of them should be brought home. Many people read this report in the Melbourne 'Herald' and quite a number are disturbed by it. This is something which it is the responsibility of the Minister to answer. It all adds up to a situation in which, as the honourable member for Wills said - and he has had much more experience of the Army than I have - Viet nam has done considerable harm to the Australian armed forces. He suggests that never before in history have things happened in the Australian armed forces, particularly in the Army, such as have been happening in Vietnam. Never to anything like the same extent have there been so many murders and other crimes committed in the armed forces. He suggested that it was the cynicism, the lack of feeling of justification and the lack of belief in the purpose that is involved in this invasion of Vietnam which has produced this result. I for one believe that any Minister the age of the present Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who has dodged service in Vietnam- 
 I am not making any great claim to heroism and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  does not exactly give me the impression of being a hero either. 1 am not going to question his bravery and I suggest he keep his mouth shut about questioning mine. 
Motion (by  Sir Alan  Hulme) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
The reason for moving the motion for the suspension of standing orders is to enable a decision of the House to be made which will achieve an increase in social service benefits. This matter is so urgent, and quick action is so obviously needed, that it is completely appropriate to move for the suspension of standing orders to allow the House to make a decision on it. Everybody knows how the standard of living of age, invalid and widow pensioners and those on unemployment and sickness benefits has fallen. There are perhaps more than 1 million people in the community whose standard of living depends entirely on those benefits. Everybody knows that the basic assumption underlying this Government's Budget is that there will be an increase of 6 or 7 per cent in the retail price index in the course of the next 12 months. Everybody knows that the standard of living of about I million people dependent on these social service benefits will continue to fall. 
I submit that it is appropriate and necessary to treat this matter as urgent and to have a vote on the motion for the suspension of standing orders as moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The House should make a decision now to stop this fall in the standard of living of about I million people who depend on social service benefits. That is the overwhelming and dominating reason why this is a matter of urgency, and why the standing orders should be suspended so that all honourable members can make a decision - which the Government would not ignore - whether social service benefits should be increased. 
One has only to refer to the tables submitted by the honourable member for Oxley to realise how serious this situation is. If the pension for a single person were increased simply in accordance with the cost of living increase it would have had to be Si 5.95 last December. But of course it was only SI 5.50. 45c a week less than would have been necessary in December to keep up with the increased cost of living. If everything happens as the Government intends it to happen, that is to say, if the majority of honourable members in this House do not vote to suspend standing orders so that a decision can be made now - and 1 cannot understand why any honourable member on the Government side should refuse to vote in support of this motion - the result will be that the standard of those in receipt of social service benefits will decline by at least another 50c in the next 6 months. Therefore by June 1971 the standard will have fallen by another 50c. Some honourable members on the Government side will no doubt argue, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  argued, that it would be wrong to interfere with the procedures of this House. If we leave this matter until the next Budget is brought down, and in the meantime prices increase as the Government expects them to increase, the pension will be down by another 35c. 
What I am submitting is that this is a matter of urgency. This is a matter that can be dealt with only by the suspension of standing orders so that something can be done to prevent this shocking and serious decline in the standards of living of those people who depend upon social service benefits. According to the honourable member for Bennelong we have to adhere to the procedures of the House. The honourable member for Bennelong, considers that that is much more important than to take steps to increase pensions. I know how correct his standards are. He wants to put the procedures of the House in advance of increasing the pension: it is much more important to adhere to the procedures of the House than it is to vote for the suspension of Standing Orders so that honourable mem bers can say 'yes, every one of us wants to see an increase in pensions'. Everyone knows that if such a vote were carried, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  would have to move and the Government would have to provide additional finance to increase pensinos 
The matter is a clear and simple one. If honourable members on the Government side vote against the motion, that will mean that they do not want to increase pensions now; they do not want to do anything to help get an increase in pensions now. They want the procedures of the House to prevail; they want the policy of the Government to prevail; they want time to pass until eventually - perhaps before the next election in about 18 months time - the Government decides to increase pensions. That is what honourable members opposite will be saying if they vote against a suspension of standing orders to allow the matter to be decided now. The honourable member for Oxley and every member of the Labor Party Opposition will not put the procedures of the House before an increase in pensions; we will not put 6, 9 or 18 months that the Government may take to decide upon an increase before an increase in pensions now. Our proposal is to suspend Standing Orders so that a decision can be made here and now in favour of an increase in pensions. I challenge any man on the Government side to vote against that motion. 
That so rauch of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Oxley moving, That this House is of opinion that the Government should make immediate adjustment in social service benefits to restore ut least the purchasing power lost since the last Budget and that immediate steps should be taken to ensure that no benefits fall below the poverty line established by the Melbourne survey into poverty. 
Question put: 
That the motion be agreed to. 
I have in my hand a document headed 'Department of Labour, and National Service, National Service Statistics, Defaulters Summary of Offences as at 31.12.70'. It gives details of the number of people who have failed to register for national service and so on. I do not know whether this document is secret.,  I  do not think I have ever seen a secret document. It is hard to judge whether it is secret; but it seems to me to be a document which raises some very significant questions about failure to register for national service which I would like the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  to answer in due course. 
In answer to a question last week the Minister for Labour and National Service said that  1,113  cases of men who failed to register for national service had been taken to court since  1964.  Presumably there have been other cases of failure to attend for medical examination and failure to obey a call-up notice. These latter two offences may add up to much less than the 1,113 cases of people who failed to register or they may add a considerable number to the 1,113 cases; I do not know. In any case, the number of men who have been prosecuted for the three offences - failure to register, failure to attend for medical examination and failure to answer callup - would amount to a very significant total that has seriously embarrassed the Government. But what is more significant than the number of men who have been prosecuted for these three offences is the number of men who have not been prosecuted for these three offences. 
As I said, I have a photostat copy of a document which the Minister may verify in due course as being genuine or not. I repeat that it is headed 'Department of Labour and National Service, National Service Statistics, Defaulters Summary of Offences as at 31.12.70'. The first page has a sub-heading: 'Failure to Register: Cumulative Figure'. The total of those who have failed to register is shown on this document as being 43,960. The table goes on to show the following facts: That inquiries revealed there was no default in 23,435 cases; explanations accepted by Registrar, 8,374; cases not proceeded with, 698; cases not proceeded with on advice of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor, 114; prosecuted and convicted, 1,007; prosecutions dismissed, 52; prosecutions withdrawn, 54; prosecutions pending, 62; investigations proceeding less than 3 months, 2,888; investigations proceeding more than 3 months, 7276; and unable to trace name on defaulters list, 1,659. 1 have also tables showing the number of men who failed to register, those who failed to attend for medical examination,  and those who failed to obey the call-up notice, as at 31st December 1970. The important thing about this table, I think, is that of the 43,960 men who have failed to register since the National Service Act began to operate, 23,435 were shown by inquiries to reveal no default. On the face of it I cannot understand why a failure to register does not in itself constitute a default. How can it be that inquiries have revealed that 23,435 of the 43,960 men who have failed to register have revealed no default? I ask the Minister why it was that such a large number of those who failed to register, 23.435 have been held by his Department to constitute no default. What characteristic was there in these men who failed to register that constituted no default? 
I have had the impression from everybody that they are very worried if they fail to register. The impression is given that failure to register is an immediate offence. Most of the young men and their parents to whom 1 talk are most concerned that this is an automatic offence. Yet the statistics show that of the 43,960 men who failed to register 23,435 were found after inquiry to represent no default. Statistically, if one does not register one has a 60 per cent chance of not being found to have committed any offence. The next category that I think requires examination is that of explanations accepted by the Registrar, and of the 43,960 men who failed to register 8:374 gave explanations that were accepted by the Registrar. One could understand, I suppose, that there were those who did not know they had to register, or things of that kind, but it seems to me to be an extraordinarily large proportion. 
There were 1,113 prosecutions. But the next important point arising from the tables I have here is that of the 43,960 men who failed to register 2,888 have been under investigation for less than 3 months. I suppose that is reasonable. It might take 3 months to investigate and to discover whether there is an offence or not, but 7,276 have been under investigation for longer than 3 months. How much longer than 3 months have they been under investigation? Is it 6 months, 12 months, 2 years or 5 years? If so many, 7.276 out of 43,960  -  one-sixth or 15 per cent. - have to be under investigation for longer than 3 months it seems like a very serious problem of investigation. I wonder how many investigators are involved in this. If there are 7,276 cases under investigation for longer than 3 months how many investiga tors would be involved? The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would have an idea of the size of a job like that. It seems to be an extraordinary figure. 
As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  has mentioned there are as many persons who have been under investigation for more than 3 months for failing to register as we have troops in Vietnam. It seems to me, when we consider that 11,000 men out of 43,000 have been under investigation or are under investigation for failing to register  -  7,200 of them for more than 3 months - to suggest that there are quite a number of these cases that the Government does not want to proceed with. The mere 1,113 who have been prosecuted seems to me to be a very unlucky small number selected perhaps for the purpose of intimidating others to register whereas the Government really does not want to* indicate to the public that as many have failed to register as this document shows. As I said, this is probably not a secret document. It is headed 'Department of Labour and National Service - National Service Statistics'. Perhaps the Government does not want the public to know about these figures. 
I suppose it comes from the Department of Labour and National Service., It is headed like that.  This  Government does not want, I am sure, the public to know that 43,960 persons have failed to register- 
Motion (by  Mr Holten)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think the point recently made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  is an extremely relevant point to the matter before the House at the moment but I would give a completely different interpretation to that point from the one that he has given. This House has been engaged this afternoon in considering something which relates to the position of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and a senior Minister, the former Minister for Defence, in which one has alleged against the other serious disloyalty. This has come into existence as a result of stories that have been published in the Press of this country, stories that have been published in a way that is common in this House. One of the daily newspapers called this a shoddy and tawdry game that is played a lot here. It is played a lot here both by Ministers and the Press and what the Press does in this matter is relevant to what this House does. This House has an opportunity now in supporting the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to look a bit more closely at the conduct of the Press and Ministers. It has an opportunity to decide here who is telling lies and who is not telling lies, because somebody is telling lies. The House has an opportunity here  lo  judge for itself whether or not we are going to have government by lies, innuendoes and false impressions. As the Prime Minister said- 
-- I think the House would want to know, if it is to make up its mind whether or not Standing Orders should be suspended, what would happen if the Standing Orders were suspended. What can be done *as a result of the suspension of Standing Orders? The House would want to know ' what it may be able to do, what it may be able to hear and what it may be able to decide if the Standing Orders are suspended, and I suggest these are some of the things that it can decide. 1 do not think it is reasonable to allow a situation to continue in which the reputations of a member of the Press, a stranger in this Parliament, and Ministers in this Parliament, are at stake without fully taking every opportunity we can to arrive at the truth. It seems that this motion moved by the Leader of the Opposi tion gives us a better opportunity to arrive at the truth than if we do not support it. 
I ask (he Minister for Trade and Industry a question. Has he noticed that since 21 October- 
Has the Minister lor Trade and Industry noticed that since- 21st October 1970 there have been on the notice paper questions concerning the Tariff Board, asking whether the Board has reported that it has insufficient staff to carry out normal tariff inquiries and inquiries about dumping under the New Zealand and Australian Free Trade Agreement and has asked for increased staff so that it may begin some of the special inquiries that it has said are necessary? So far no action has been taken either to answer those questions or, presumably, to meet the Board's needs. When does the Minister think that the needs of the Tariff Board for staff for these purposes will be met? 
This Bill, which is supported by the Opposition, amends the Customs Act to bring in certain new terms and certain new provisions in relation to the payment of customs duties and the granting of refunds of duty so that the Act will be more up to date and more in line with present day practices. As far as I can ascertain there is nothing in this Bill that is in any way objectionable and the Opposition supports it. The kinds of changes that the Bill introduces are those mentioned by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  Section 137 of the Customs Act which was made law in 1901 presently provides for the payment of duty in British currency. It is now being changed after 70 years to Australian currency. One might have expected the change would have occurred somewhat earlier. 
I see. The Act was amended in 1947 to provide for payment of duty in Australian currency. The practice, we are told, is to accept bank cheques and other forms of guaranteed cheques in payment of duties and this is contrary to section 137. Therefore, section 137 has to be repealed. Also to be repealed is section 163. It appears there is some inflexibility in its provisions in relation to the operation of commodity control, and in order to get rid of this it is proposed that the provisions be amended. The provisions seem to me to be technical ones that are necessary and I do not think there is any point in trying to go beyond the provisions of the Bill to introduce matter which one might argue is relevant to customs but not relevant to the Bill. I have no intention of doing that. The Opposition supports the Bill and I will not take up any more time on it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Tariff Board ignore statements on Government policy by the Prime Minister and himself. 
Has he stated that there is no way in which he cun inform the Board on Government policy. 
If so, will he seek the support of the Prime Minister in taking steps to enter into negotiations with the Board with a view to the establishment of clear and understandable guidelines to tariff policy. 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has additional staff been sought by the Tariff Board. 
Did the Public Service Board recommend the creation of additional staff positions at the beginning of June 1970. 
Was the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board informed that the matter raised important questions which be should discuss with the Minister at the first opportunity. 
Has the Tariff Board stated that the resources available  to it  have been fully occupied on normal tariff revision, dumping and New Zealand and Australia Free Trade Agreement inquiries and that it expects an increase in the number of by-law, dumping and NZAFTA matters. 
Has he had discussions with the Minister for Customs and Excise about the additional stall required by the Tariff Board; if not, why not. 
If he has had such discussions, what was the result. 
Was the desire of the Tarin" Board for more staff considered to be a matter of policy; if so, why. 
ls it a fact that the Government does not desire the Tariff Board to obtain more staff because of the possibility that it may then proceed with inquiries into high tariff areas and embarrass the Government by recommendations for reductions. 
Has it been decided that this is the best way to maintain independence of the Tariff Board whilst still avoiding problems of having to deal with any recommendations it may make for tariff reductions. 
When does he anticipate that the Tariff Board will have sufficient staff to complete the inquiries envisaged in ils reports for 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969-70 which ure nol yet completed or even begun. 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry: 
Did the Tariff Board in 1966-67 propose a progressive and systematic review of the tariff consisting of an internal examination by the Board of the structure and levels of protection in the tariff, together with public inquiries into the main areas of production where there had been no recent public inquiry and where the levels of protection were in the medium to high range. 
If so, what inquiries has the Board carried out as part of this progressive and systematic review and what public inquiries has the Board made into the main areas of production where there has been no recent public inquiry and where the levels of protection are in the medium to high range. 
Did the Board, in the same year, also propose a classification of industries into those which have (a) a high level of protection, (b) a medium level of protection and (c) a low level of protection, and state that it would not recommend protection for industries found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate below SO per cent and, in the case of industries requiring an effective rate exceeding 25 per cent but not exceeding 50 per cent, it would be influenced by the likely effects on other industries and their prospects for more competitive production. 
If so, has the Board made this classification. 
Has the Board (a) proceeded to inquire into industries within this classification, (b) recommended that protection should not be given to industries found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate below 50 per cent and (c) recommended that protection should not be given in the case of industries requiring an effective rate exceeding 25 per cent but not exceeding 50 per cent where the Board has been influenced by the likely effects on other industries and their prospects for more competitive production. 
If so, what are, in each case, the industries for which the Board has not made recommendations for protection. 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many references for inquiry, upon which no report had been made, were held by the Tariff Board at 30th June 1.970 and how many are still held at the present time. 
How many of these references have been with the Board for longer than (a) I year, (b) 2 years, (c)  .1  years, (d)  4  years and (e) more than 4 years. 
When is it expected that reports will be made on these references. 
It seems very difficult to understand how the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  can allege that the terms of a matter of public importance, which is concerned with increasing wheat sales to China, with selling more wheat to China and with trying to encourage the Australian Government and the responsible Ministers to be wise and diplomatic in relation to China, can possibly be against the interests of Australian primary producers. I am quite sure that very few Australian primary producers would be able to understand for one moment any reasoning which might have happened by accident to have entered into the Minister's speech in the last quarter of an hour. 
The Minister told the House that he does not consider that the decline and final end to wheat sales by Australia lo China has anything to do with Australian attitudes. He said it had nothing to do with it at ali and that it is despicable even to suggest that. He said that the decline and final termination of sales of wheat to China are caused by objective conditions, such as the green revolution - increased production in China - and so on. But does the Minister know that in the last 12 months China has bought more wheat from Canada than ever before? Does he know that in the last 12 months China has bought more wheat from other countries that her total imports of wheat are some 20 per cent or 30 per cent greater than they were in any year before? Why is it that when China is buying more wheat from Canada and more wheat from other countries she has suddenly stopped buying wheat from Australia? This is a question of which the Minister seemed to be quite unaware in his attempt to sidestep the terms of this matter of public importance today. 
Nobody would agree that the sale of wheat by Australia to China is not of very great value to Australia. Since 1962 we have sold about S800m worth of wheat to China. Each year since 1962 the annual sales have been well over S100m with the exception of 1 year. In each of those years they have ranged from between nearly one-half to about one-third of the total Australian wheat sales. The market in China is of great value to our wheat farmers. 1 think that everybody will agree that it is of great value to Australia to sell its wheat to China and that the Government should do whatever is wise, reasonable and principled to sell Australian wheat to China. But I wonder whether anyone who supports the Government will consider it is wise for one of its Ministers - in this case it was the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - ro come out on television at the very point at which negotiations for the sale of Austraiian wheat to China might be crucial, namely, the last week or so of negotiations, with a statement that he would not self his soul just because of trade. 
The Chinese are sensitive people. Perhaps they should not be. Perhaps they should be as tough and as insensitive as the Minister for Trade and Industry. What did the Minister for Trade and Industry say in the very week in which the negotiations were at a crucial stage? He said: 'I would not do business with China at the expense of my soul'. Could anything have been said which would have been of more fundamental criticism? Could anything have been said which would have been a more bitter attack upon the people with whom we are trying to do business? I am sure that no farmer who is trying to sell his wheat, cattle or sheep to somebody else would at the crucial stage of negotiations say: 'I will not go ahead with this business because it is at the expense of my soul'. Would it be in the interests of him doing a good bargain with the potential buyer with whom he is dealing to say that? Of course it would not. 
The question here is not whether Australia should recognise China - if that is otherwise wrong - in order to sell our wheat to China. If it .were wrong or if it were against Australia's interest to recognise Chinn there would be no tenable reason why we should recognise China merely to sell wheat. But that is not the question which is involved. The Minister for Trade and Industry and other Ministers have made an issue of their souls being involved in business with China at the very time when business with China in the form of the sale of wheat is crucial. Despite the fact that for 9 years China has never raised the question of recognition it is at a crucial point in business with China made an issue by us. The new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  shooting from the hip like the former one, was asked a question in the House about Italy's recognition of China. What did he have to say? He said that it was unfortunate that Italy had recognised China. The Minister for Trade and Industry, as I have said, also seemed to make a special point of saying in that particular week: 'I would not sell my soul just because of trade'. 
The Italians must have sold their souls. Do supporters of the Government think that it was the action of a wise man to talk and behave like th. Prime Minister or the Minister for Trade and Industry? Common sense is involved. It is a matter of not being abrasive and insulting and of defaming at a time when one is engaged in negotiations of this kind. The Government and its Ministers have never used common sense about China. They have wanted it both ways. They have wanted to defame and insult China for local political reasons and, al the same time, they have wanted to do business wilh China. This view is not just shared by honourable members on this side of the House, lt came out very clearly in  th:  book written by  Mr W.  R. Crocker entitled Australian Ambassador'. At page 20 he wrote: 
No Minister for Foreign Affairs nowaday* and few, if any, governments have complete freedom about foreign policy - the space for manoeuvre is strictly circumscribed by internal politics on the one hand - for example, in Australia the emotional anti-Communist forces and their inn ,en.. in the Liberal-Country Parties or pre-occupation with the DLP vole. . . . 
What.  Mr Crocker  is saying is that the sale of $800m or S900m worth of wheat to China, as well as every other relationship, has been endangered by the narrow political concept which unproportionately influences the Australian Government. This contradictory and irresponsible policy has now lost Australia sales of wheat to the extent of over $100m a year. Wheat has been sold to China for 9 years without Australian recognition of China and it may have been sold for years yet without this recognition if Ministers had spoken sensibly and had controlled their tendency to shout insults and condemn. This is no way to behave in foreign affairs, even though it is the way in which they behave on the political hustings or on soap boxes around Australia. This off the cuff allegations and shooting from the hip manner of conducting national affairs is not to the credit of the McMahon Government or any of its predecessors. One would expect any statement which is made about the attitude of the Australian Government to the recognition of Communist China to come from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury),  the Prime Minister and, in his speech here this afternoon, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have in the last week for the first time been referring to China as the People's Republic of China. Prior to that they referred to it as Mainland China or Red China. It can be seen that the Government, which has up to now taken a highly moralistic position - I think it was essentially a political position - not torecognise China merely to sell its wheat to China is rapidly coming round to the recognition of China. Its Ministers are now talking about the People's Republic of China. No longer is it Mainland China or Red China. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech last night, said: 
Over the last 12 months there have been relevant developments and our own policies must be sensitive to change. 
How sensitive have they suddenly become? Why have they become sensitive? Because their pockets are involved. Because they see for the first time that the sale of wheat is endangered. All their precautions about their moral attitude to China and all their political posturing around the country about the selling of their souls if they deal with China have to end because they are going to have to recognise China in order to sell wheat to China. They are going to have to do the very thing that they have condemned. The Government is primarily responsible for this situation. 
This Bill is at once of very little significance in that it applies to only a very small part of the Commonwealth of Australia, and in another way it is significant because it is part of the conditioning process in which today's authorities set out to quieten people and turn them into social and political morons. There is much talk about violence. We have just heard it mentioned. But in the past 5 or 10 years in Australia, in relation to protests and demonstrations there has been almost no violence, and what violence there has been has been almost completely against protestors and demonstrators. It is true that the common law and much statute law based on it is harsh, arbitrary and all-embracing. The truth is that Australia, being a common law country, has no right of free speech or assembly. 
Recently a magistrate in Sydney put the position accurately, I believe. He said: 
There is no guaranteed right, of either free assembly or free speech in common law countries. This very often surprises people who believe their school history books. Nonetheless that is the legal situation. 
I would expect lawyers like the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the former Attorney-General and other lawyers in this House to be telling this and to be telling us that they deprecate the fact that there is no right of free speech and free assembly in Australia instead of introducing additional legislation to cut it down further and curtail it. There is a lot of legal humbug talked about this sort of thing. Australian people should realise that in Australia there is no right of free speech or assembly. Any government can make this country into a police state without changing the law. The Bill before us takes away a little of what rights existed before.  A point will be reached, in taking away a little at a time, when too much has been taken, and I would have no pride, if I were associated with this Bill, in taking away a little more. 
The Bill makes it into an offence on Commonwealth premises and in Commonwealth territories for an assembly of 3 or more persons which may cause a magistrate to think some offence .to persons or to property will take place. It does not make an offence out of an overt act which can be judged objectively. It makes it an offence for a person to cause a magistrate to think something - to think that he may commit an offence. In practice it makes the actions of any and every protestor or demonstrator on Commonwealth premises or in Commonwealth territories illegal. Nowhere does the Bill attempt to define or protect anything which may be a right  of speech or assembly, as even the Crimes Act does, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out this afternoon. It was a pretence of the former Attorney-General that one of the purposes of the Bill was to define rights a little more clearly. It contains not a word of definition. It cuts down and curtails. In no way does it enlarge or protect any rights. To claim otherwise is pure humbug. 
This Bill for the preservation of order which is now proposed by the McMahon Government may or may not preserve order. We shall see. I think that it will cause disorder. But of one thing we can be certain: It will not increase liberty. Almost everybody knows, I suggest, at least 2 things: Firstly, that almost everything we have that is of value has been won as a result of the people winning greater liberty, secondly, that the little that we have of value has been won as a result of bringing about more order, for this is just another word for more restriction, more control, more conformity, more timidity, less enterprise. Recently the Duke of Edinburgh made a point specially to tell us in Australia that 'people are under infinitely greater control now in almost everything they do than they have ever been before in history'. I am sure that there are some few people who would not readily accept that statement if I made it but who will find it a little more difficult to reject the statement when it comes from the Duke of Edinburgh. This Bill is calculated to increase that degree of control over the Australian people which the Duke of Edinburgh considers is already greater than ever before in history. 
The old law is still there. If you were genuine about this you would propose to amend the old law, but you are leaving the old law a big stick in the hands of the authorities and you are bringing in a sort of political electric charge that the sheriffs down in the south of America use. If you had any sincerity about this you would be out to amend the existing law. But you do not amend the existing law, because the Crimes Act is not touched in this Bill. You cannot amend the State law if you want to. The greater amount of the law that impacts upon the citizen is either the Commonwealth Crimes Act, which you do not touch at all, or the State law, which you cannot touch. What a lot of humbug it is. 
For the greater part of our history when control over the people may have been less, according to people like the Duke of Edinburgh, most of the Australian people wanted to be free. Today one has the feeling that they do not care whether they are free or not. One has the feeling that most of the Australian people do not really know when they are free, nor do they know where power lies in Australia. The public opinion polls seem to show that most of the Australian people think that power lies with trade union leaders, university students and street demonstrators. The truth is that trade union leaders, university students and street demonstrators can do little more than plead aud cry outside the walls where power exists. Power in Australia is held by those few hundred men of wealth who own or manage the great business corporations. Power is held by the few nien of great wealth who own or manage the mass media of Press, television and radio, and who can dispose of a Prime Minister as soon as they make up their minds to do so, as they showed only a couple of weeks ago. Members of Parliament, leaders of churches, professors of universities and heads of public services are little more than vassals of these men of power in industry, finance and the mass media. 
That is where power lies in Australia today. Power lies not with member of Parliament, bishops and professors little more than it lies with trade union leaders, university students or street demonstrators. But this . McMahon Government, this collection who are really puppets of the holders of power, does not propose to create better order at the stock exchange, . which is corrupt throughout - :the recent Senate committee inquiry has showed the. extent of this corruption-or . in the resale price maintenance; it proposes . to create better order amongst those people who so lack power that they .can do no more than protest in the street against an exercise of power. The McMahon Government now wants to outlaw protests and demonstrations but it makes no attempt to understand what these protests. are about. 
It makes no attempt to understand the utter immorality - of the  war in Vietnam which causes most of these protests and demonstrations. The McMahon Government does not appear to' know that Vietnam has been occupied by a foreign power since 1847. It does not appear to know that millions of Vietnamese have struggled for a century and a quarter to get rid of foreign rule, racial arrogance" and international exploitation. It does not appear to know that millions of Vietnamese have died in this struggle, always against overwhelming odds, engineered against them first by the French and then by. the Americans. It does not appear to know that, as a measure of these overwhelming odds, while about 2 million tons of bombs were dropped in the whole of the Second World War over areas more than twice the size of Australia, in this criminal attack on a small peasant country in Asia 5,600,000 tons of bombs have been dropped on Vietnam and Laos, an area about the size of the State of Victoria, by convicted and unconvicted American war criminals alone. 
The McMahon Government does not appear to understand that some young Australians may consider that all this is immoral and that they may want to assemble in a group of three persons in such a manner as would allow an antagonistic and authoritarian magistrate to have a reasonable apprehension of violence to persons or to property. This Bill does not so much turn acts into offences as make offences out of what the authorities think might be going to happen. What amazes me is (hat violence is not done every day in respect of this matter. What amazes me is not that there should sometimes be a reasonable apprehension of violence but that it so rarely occurs. The McMahon Government makes no attempt to understand the genuineness of the objection to this totally immoral and unjustifiable war. It makes no attempt to understand why a young man is willing to go to gaol for 2 years rather than have anything to do with it. How can the Government legislate when it is so out of touch with what it is legislating about? But violence is inevitable although so little of it has happened so far in Australia. This law will not create better order in Australia. If it does not merely remain a dead letter, as has so much of the earlier repressive legislation of governments like the McMahon Government, it will cause disorder, lt will cause disorder because there are sufficient people, although they are not many in Australia, who feel strongly enough about injustice not to be intimidated or silenced by law of this kind. 
But violence is inevitable because the Government of . the United States is committed to a planned course of violence such as this Bill is calculated to protect. Violence is inevitable because of what we are doing in international affairs. We are geared into the American nuclear system as is no other ' country in the world. We are geared into the American nuclear sys- tern in such a way that Australia would be one of the first targets in the world hit by an enemy of the United States. Violence is inevitable because we are geared to America in every other way and America heads the wealthy, scientifically powerful forces of the world against the economically poor and suppressed coloured masses of the world. The result is racial bigotry, military power and international exploitation - and that is the side we are on. The economically poor and suppressed people, the wretched of the earth - of whom the Vietnamese are amongst the most wretched - will not any longer submit to this modern, scientific, religious affluent power, and because they will not submit to it violence is inevitable. 
Violence will not be prevented or even reduced by repressive legislation like this Bill any more than it will be prevented or reduced by American policy and aggression. lt will be prevented and reduced only by a change of this American policy and aggression. If the Government wants to stop violence in Australia it should get Australians out of Vietnam and not pass legislation of this kind. This kind of legislation guarantees disorder and war because it is part of disorder and war. Australia may not now be able to withdraw from this violent alliance. Perhaps all we can work and ' hope for is that America will change so that we can be saved from the violent legacy prepared for us by a series of Australian governments which have accepted it. Whilst the details of this Bill are of importance they pale into insignificance in contrast to the circumstances that have given birth to this petty piece of reactionary draftsmanship. At first the former Attorney-General spoke about a balance of interests and he took up 4 pages of his speech to do it. What does the former Attorney-General want to balance? Apparently he wants to balance the use of public places, Commonwealth premises, Commonwealth Territories and diplomatic premises on the one hand, and the public interest on the other. The whole argument is in the context that the public interest is something different from the use of these places and that the use of them will conflict with the public interest if they are for any political purpose. _ 
There is a clearly implied conflict in the reasoning of the former Attorney-General and of most of those who think like him that the public interest is on the one hand and that political protest and demonstration are upon the other. There is no concept or suggestion that political demonstration or protest could be part of the public interest and could be in the public interest. No, all one has to show is that somebody who wants to do something for some political purpose, a protest or a demonstration, interferes with someone who wants to make money or with someone who wants to use a public office for conscription or to work for the war in Vietnam, or with some diplomat working for apartheid or for the Soviet Union. Then all one has to say is that those persons want to use their premises for those purposes and the use of the premises for political protest or demonstration has to be swept aside, lt is never in the public interest to make any facilities available for public protest and demonstration. Why? Because it is not in the Government's interest to do that; because as a thoroughly conservative organisation it does not want any protest or demonstration. That is why it is assumed that what suits the Liberal and Country Parties and their supporters is also coincidental with the public interest. 
What is the use of talking about balancing things when in fact that interpretation is a fair interpretation of every line of the  4  pages that the former Attorney-General devoted to the subject. The public interest is making money or amusing or entertaining oneself. The public interest is never to use the streets for the purpose of a political demonstration or for any other political purpose, although every liberty we have and almost every penny that anyone has these days has come from a background of struggle in which political protest and demonstration has won those things for us. Demonstrating one's viewpoint about important natonal questions is never in the public interest. It is always assumed by governments like the McMahon Government to be disorder or subversion although all the rights, privileges, living standards and money that most Government supporters enjoy have been won in the past by other people, by earlier generations, with precisely this kind of action. 
In some countries, unlike the common law countries of which we pride ourselves to be one, the rights of free speech and assembly are protected. In some they are thought to be inalienable. In the Constitution of the United States the first amendment reads: 
Congress shall make nu law abridging the freedom  of speech  or of the Press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble. . . . 
There is no right of free speech or assembly in Australia. There is no bar to law which curtails free speech or assembly. Free speech or assembly is not inalienable in Australia. It is being alienated right here tonight. That is why a. Bill of this kind can bc enacted by this Parliament and tolerated, if not accepted, by the Australian people. There is no inalienable right of free speech or assembly in this country. It has to be restricted, whenever the right of some official in a Commonwealth Territory, or some official in a Commonwealth department or some diplomat or some businessman or somebody else looking for his pleasure is in some way obstructed or slightly interfered with, by someone who might be concerned with a political purpose, or when some unsympathetic magistrate has some apprehension which is reasonable to him, and to. him only, that violence may take place or properly may be damaged. That is the. value of inalienable free speech and assembly:,n Australia. lt will be an offence if  3  or more persons at a particular place or moving - it used to be an obstruction but now it will be an offence even to move - who. after the event and on the evidence of members of the police force who in matters of this kind are not notorious for telling the truth, cause some magistrate- and magistrates are not notorious for any sympathy or understanding of the .people with whom they are dealing - to hold an apprehension, alone to him, that these, people will do something. That is the slender thread upon which the inalienable rights to free speech and assembly hang in Australia. 
I do not want to give ,the impression that this Bill is a great addition to the police state in Australia. It is a petty addition -to the police state in Australia. It is a petty piece of restriction that is neither necessary nor will serve any useful or public purpose, and I cannot really seriously work out for myself why a serious government should be concerned to introduce a petty, silly piece of legislation like this. It will not even help much to condition the atmosphere. I think it shows how unreal the Government is. because everything for which it is legislating in this Bill was covered thoroughly by a complex and intricate piece of restrictive legislation in the past which allows the Government to do everything that can be done under this Bill. This Bill does not help anyone who might be affected adversely by that legislation. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Minister for Trade and Industry is to lead a team of wheat lumpers to the People's Republic of China to take part in a contest lumping Canadian wheat in Peking and that the Prime Minister will later lead a squash team to the People's Republic of China? I remind Government supporters who are trying to interject that we must frame our questions in a manner similar to that in which the Prime Minister has been answering. We must keep them to his level. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has purported to give an account to the House of events that occurred in February when 5 women were arrested in or near the lift near the entrance to the Department of Labour and National Service on the tenth floor of the Princes Gate building in Melbourne and of events which occurred yesterday morning. Much of the account given by the Minister is, to my own knowledge, incorrect. Had many of the things that he said been true, they undoubtedly would have led to different consequences. In the first place, the 5 women concerned were charged with trespass, an offence which was created recently under an amendment to the Summary Offences Act in Victoria. 
-- They were charged with trespass under that Act, and the magistrate said so. The magistrate in the case went to the extent of saying that the Parliament of Victoria had recently expressed its views of the seriousness of the nature of this offence and that was why he was imposing a sentence of 14 days without any alternative of a fine. If the women concerned had been sitting in the lift or in the passageway, as mentioned by the Minister, or if they had used any of the language that he mentioned, undoubtedly there would have been additional charges. As far as my inquiries of those concerned, of the Press and of others who attended the court can reveal, there was no suggestion in the evidence of the prosecution that any of the matters mentioned by the Minister took place. I have made my own inquiries to ascertain exactly what did happen when those women went there. I have not been able to discover any suggestion that any of the things mentioned by the Minister occurred. 
Indeed, I asked the Regional Director of the Department of Labour and National Service yesterday morning whether he had any objection to what the women had done, and he said no. He told me that the action had not been taken against them as the result of anything for which he was responsible, lt seems to me very strange that the Regional Director could give me that impression yesterday morning in his own office and the Minister - who is a politician - can stand at the table of this House today and give a completely different impression. The Regional Director is not a politician. As the Minister said, he is a public servant. The Minister is a politician, trying to do his best today to aspire to a higher position in the Liberal Party. 
Withdraw that? The Government will have to see about withdrawing the Minister. It is responsible for those who reach higher positions in the Liberal Party, 
Well, you have been abusing question time all day. You are the last man in this House to talk about abusing anything. 
1 want to say something about the events of yesterday morning. As a result of the imprisonment of those women for 14 days for a trivial, insignificant offence, as far as I could discover - and nothing that the Minister has said today in any way contradicts that - I decided that from the point of view of civil rights and civil liberties this was going too far. A citizen should have the right to band out a piece of paper in the office of the Department of Labour and National Service where thousands of young men are compelled to go against their will and register for national service, a service with which they do not agree. There should be an equal right for a citizen peacefully and inoffensively to hand out pieces of paper, leaflets, to people whom they want to inform in that way. The Regional Director informed me yesterday that his office had no objection to that. For  2i  hours I and four others proceeded to hand out those pieces of paper in the office of the Department of Labour and National Service, in the hall leading into that office, in and around the lift, on other floors, outside in front and in every part of the building. As far as I can make out, we did exactly what those 5 women did. 
No, and there is no evidence that they ever sat on the floor. It was never mentioned in court. I made inquiries yesterday in the office of the Department of Labour and National Service and I heard no complaints or suggestions about this. Nor did I hear any suggestions that the words 'Fascist pigs' were used by anybody. I think it is a very poor thing that at a time when these proceedings are being broadcast all over Australia a responsible Minister in a national government is willing to say things that were never given in evidence in court against those women and which were never suggested to me yesterday by officers of his own Department when I asked what complaints they had about these women. I have serious doubts about the credibility of the Minister on this point. 
I was at the Department of Labour and National Service for  2i  hours yesterday and J covered far more of the building than the women did. I was handing out leaflets far more extensively than they did and was continually in and out of the office of the Department. At no stage was any action taken against me. At no stage did 1 say I would leave. I left when 1 was ready, to be replaced by 5 others to continue the activity, which went on all day yesterday and which is going on all day today. If that has not cleared the way for the distribution of leaflets inside and outside the Department of Labour and National Service - which, in February and just before Easter, was a criminal offence punishable by 14 days imprisonment - I do not know what has. Nothing that the Minister has said has suggested that there has not been discrimination in this matter, when 5 women whom somebody thought they could intimidate along with a lot of others were imprisoned for 14 days for the purpose of intimidating them and when, for some special reason or other - whether it be political or some kind of view that one can go too far - no action was taken against me. A leading article in the Melbourne 'Herald' last week suggested that this matter should not be pushed any further. It may be a little politically unpopular to push it further. 
I believe that there is a law for one set of people in this country and a law for the others. That is the way the law is applied, particularly in this field in connection with which I have had a question on notice for weeks now. It refers to 34,000 young men - not a few - who have failed to register for national service. Only six of them have been selected to be imprisoned for 2 years. That is not justice. Six of them have been selected. Why? To intimidate the rest, to try to make them come into line. The figures I have mentioned in my question on notice, which the Minister has failed to answer for weeks and weeks, indicate that of the 34,000 who failed to register 23,000 were found after inquiry to have committed no offence. What a high degree of probability there is of not committing an offence if one fails to register for national service in Australia. Another 8,000 were found after investigation to have explanations that were accepted by the Government. But six of them had to go to gaol for 2 years. The figures also indicate that 7,800 have been under investigation for more than 3 months and 2,600 have been under investigation for less than 1 month. How many people are investigating those nearly 11,000 cases? How long is it going to take to finish the investigations? What an enormous field of discrimination, choice and selection there is in the Government's application of selective malice, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  put it today. The last thing that the Minister for Labour and National Service should do in this House is to attempt to make political capital out of the selective application of a law that comes under his administration. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I heard just the latter part of what the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said, and it is the latter part which 1 think is significant. I heard him say that  Mr Allen,  the Regional Director, and 2 other members of the staff said that they explained to me the full circumstances of what the women did. 1 do not know what the term full circumstances' means, but I say without fear of contradiction that no-one referred to anything that the women did when I was in  Mr Allen's  office - not  Mr Allen  nor any of the other members of his staff. The only references they made to any offensive behaviour was offensive behaviour in general.  Mr Allen  said: 'I do not want my staff to be the subject of any offensive or insulting behaviour.' At no stage did he ever suggest that the women had been responsible for any offensive or insulting behaviour. I am completely clear about the conversation. Indeed, I asked him whether he had any complaints to make about the women and he said: 'No.' I said: 'Were you responsible for any action?' He said: 'No.' Then he was reminded, by  Mr Elkington  1 think, that they had been forcibly removed from the office of the Department of Labour and National Service, and then  Mr Allen  seemed to recall that and admitted that they had been. But that was the only reference which he made to the women. He made no complaint about them calling anybody a 'Facist pig'. He made no complaint about them sitting down anywhere. 
In respect of other inquiries I have made, I find that the only time when any of these women were on the floor is when they were being dragged out or lifted out of the Department of Labour and National Service into the hallway where they could be arrested legally. That dragging them out of the Department was strictly illegal, because until the Bill which is now before this House is passed there is no power to do that. I say quite clearly that the statement which the Minister has just made as an account of what his 3 officers said is incorrect. 
-It seems to me that the traditional role of the  Speaker  in this House is quite different from that of the  Speaker  of the House of Commons. It seems to me that in this Parliament the  Speaker  is traditionally a Party man. I think this is a fact and is recognised as such by everybody. I do not think anyone expects the  Speaker  to be impartial and in fact the  Speaker  tends to take a partial attitude. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  gave details of the number of times when you,  Mr Speaker,  have given rulings against the Opposition or when, as a result of your having named them, members of the Opposition have had to leave the House. He has shown that you have given these rulings to a far greater extent than any of your predecessors and he has shown that you have tended to do this more frequently. Most of the trouble has occurred during question time. The asking of questions in this Parliament is very carefully limited by the Standing Orders. 
It is not possible, when asking a question, for a member to use arguments, inferences, imputations, ironical expressions of hypothetical matter, and it is not possible for a member of this House to ask a question which will reflect on the character or conduct of any person. But it seems clear to me that these Standing Orders have been applied in a partial manner during the time that you,  Mr Speaker,  have been in the Chair. Many questions have been asked by honourable members on the other side of the House that infringed those rules. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  interjected a short time ago contrary to those rules. He frequently does so and implies all sorts of sinister suggestions. Quite a number of honourable members on the other side of the House have a reputation for continually interjecting. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is the Liberal Party's  Deputy  Whip continually interjects but is treated in a much more friendly and acceptable manner by you,  Mr Speaker,  than is anyone on this side of the House. Standing order 145 states: 
An answer shall be relevant to the question. 
From time to time that standing order has been breached and I think you,  Mr Speaker,  recently recognised that it has been seriously breached. I was suspended from the House for seeking to raise a point of order relating to standing order 145 after a long series of answers, largely by the former Prime Minister, which were completely irrelevant to the question. When I sought at the end of question time to raise a point of order so as to direct the attention of the Chair to the way in which those answers were contrary to standing order 145 you,  Mr Speaker,  refused to accept my point of order. I said that I thought a member of this House had a right to raise a point of order, and I should imagine that would be accepted by everybody. You,  Mr Speaker,  said that I should have raised it at the time. At what time? How did you know to what time I was referring? You had made your ruling that I was referring to a particular time and you had no knowledge as to what time I was referring. I might have been referring to something which occurred 10 seconds before. In fact I was going to refer to something that extended throughout that question time. 
I was going to refer to an answer given by the former Prime Minister to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who had asked about something quite specific. The question related to the capital value of shares of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd but what did we get by way of an answer? We got an answer three-quarters of which was praise for the BHP Co. The Minister went on to talk about wildcat strikes. In what way was that relevant to the capital value of Broken Hill shares? Then the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked a question which was quite specific. He asked: 
Is it a fact that the forms for this year's census have already been printed and would have to be pulped if the census were postponed? 
The then Prime Minister gave an answer that had no relevance whatever to the question. He went on to suggest that the Labor Party was the only party that was willing to probe into the private affairs of people and that his Government and his party would never be involved in such a thing. The answer was completely irrelevant to the question. The question asked whether the census papers had been printed, and if the census were postponed would they have to be pulped. That is the matter or which I had intended to raise a point of order.  Mr Speaker,  you were completely partial and completely prejudiced in favour of the then Prime Minister whom you were protecting that day, among others, by refusing even to hear what my point of order was about. 
Then we had the case of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  began by saying: 
We have witnessed tonight one of the most disgraceful episodes in this Parliament - 

 Mr Speaker then said: 
The honourable member for Dawson will resume his seat. 
The Hansard record of the incident is as follows: 
I can understand the groans and moans coming from Government supporters when I rise to speak on these matters. I can understand that they are not in the least interested in legislation that cuts down the rights of others, rights which they from their positions of eminence no longer regard as necessary. This is an example- 
I am thinking of men like the simple member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  whose simplicity is becoming rather too obvious. This clause is yet another way ki which the rights of free assembly are being curtailed. Earlier tonight I heard the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  quoting evidence that in this country we have no rights of assembly. Freedom of assembly in this country is on sufferance of the Government, State or Federal, which has power to cut it down or destroy it at any minute. When I said that we would not need an additional line in the legislation in Australia to establish a police state I meant precisely this. There is enough power in the law for a police state to be established in this country if the will of the Government and the circumstances appropriate for it were there. We would not need additional law. 
The thing that concerns me about the lawyers on the Government side and elsewhere who accept this kind of legislation is that this seems to make no appeal to them as something that should not be. I heard the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  saying earlier that this Bill was really directed at violence. I dispute this completely. I think this clause is a perfect example of something which contradicts the position taken by the AttorneyGeneral, a position which I think may be taken by the Attorney-General and by others in an attempt to justify to themselves legislation of this kind. This clause 6 (1.) creates an offence out of an impression that one would give to somebody else. It does not create an overt act of violence to a person or to property, it creates as an offence some conduct which would give an impression to somebody else or which would create a state of mind or a reasonable apprehension in somebody else. It does not create an offence of actually doing something that may be violent. That is why I say that this Bill is not directed at violence. The essential core of the offence here is what someone else thinks about another person and what someone else thinks about another person in the context of an unlawful assembly of 3 persons or more. In that assembly if there are some people, and perhaps it could be only a few - perhaps it could be only one - who give a magistrate reasonable apprehension of violence everybody in that assembly can be found guilty. 
Yes. Everybody can be guilty. As soon as the demonstration of violence is created in or around the assembly or as soon as evidence given, perhaps, by the police can suggest to a magistrate a reasonable apprehension then everybody - and perhaps there are hundreds who have done nothing whatever to contribute to that atmosphere - can be found guilty of the offence. 
The Attorney-General says that is not right. My impression of the law and the application of the law is that this is so. Even if an assembly is not unlawful under this clause there is still power in the Bill for a member of the police force to act against the assembly, to act against anybody in it and to use appropriate violence and even severe violence in order to disperse that assembly. If a member of the police force acts in this way he is acting against persons, and the probability of arrest is high. The probability of the arrest of someone who has taken no part in the assembly is high. I do not know how much experience the Attorney-General has had in this field. I have had a lot of experience in this field and I know of many people who have been arrested in circumstances akin to those people who bad not done anything, who had not contributed to any atmosphere of violence and who took no part in the assembly. I know from my own knowledge dozens of people who have been arrested and charged. It is of no use for the Attorney-General to tell me that this is not so. I have seen it happen on dozens of occasions. 
I know all about the clause and I am saying that under this clause it is possible that this will happen again. The provisions of this clause will hang over every assembly within the defined areas and I will guarantee that if they are ever applied it will be to some extent in this way. I know how the law is applied. I know more about the way the law is applied than quite a number of legal men who only come into the courts long after the incident has occurred and who have probably never in their lives witnessed the occurrence at the time it occurred. I say that with all due respect. I am not saying that there has been any failure on their part in not having that experience but this is what happens. 
The second point I would like to make in relation to this clause is that I do not think we should give to one man - a magistrate - power to determine the guilt of a person- for a crime punishable by imprisonment for 12 months. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has related this to the development of the law. He argued that there is a tendency today to increase the number of offences and the severity of punishment for those offences that can be determined by summary jurisdiction by a magistrate but which ought to be classified as indictable offences. I do not believe that any human being in Australia - perhaps it would be all right in some recognised police state - should be placed in a position where he can be tried by one man and sentenced by the same man for up to 12 months. 
Does it now? 
I do not agree with those Acts. Surely the honourable member for Moreton is not implying that because this happens in South Australia it is a contention against my argument. It should not happen even in South Australia, and it certainly should not happen here. To me this seems to be totally disproportionate. Australia in the year 1971 does not need this sort of thing. I am astonished an disappointed that men such as the 2 legal gentlemen who are sitting opposite me think that Australia does need this sort of law. 1 want to make a final point about subclause (2.) of clause 6. What sort of lawful excuse would a person need against a charge under this clause? What sort of lawful excuse does the Attorney-General consider a court would be willing to accept? The Attorney-General has been telling us a lot about the way in which our liberties have been defined and enlarged under the provisions of this Bill, but what sort of lawful excuse would he expect a court to accept as a defence as set out in sub-clause (2.) of clause 6? I find it difficult to accept- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I  preface my remarks on this clause by saying that the Attorney-General throughout the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  was talking all the time to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  The honourable member for Bendigo was raising a serious question about a particular problem in this Bill and he is entitled to have, as is the Committee, an explanation from the Minister on the point he raised. I shall refer to that point in a moment. The 2 points that I wish to raise will not take long.I do not intend to prolong what I have to say, but I would appreciate it if the Minister would take this debate seriously. The first point is that this clause provides that where a member of the police force of the rank of sergeant or above reasonably apprehends something about an assembly, he is empowered to give it an order to disperse. Sub-clause (3.) (b) states that each person who is part of this assembly has to disperse unless he has reasonable excuse. The clause reads in part:   . . without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with the direction is guilty of an offence . . . 
I ask the Attorney-General, and I asked him previously in relation to clause 6 and he did not answer, what is a reasonable excuse in circumstances like this? We have a person who is part of an assembly. A member of the police force apprehends violence so he orders everyone in that assembly to disperse. What excuse could a member of that assembly have which would be a reasonable excuse so that he would not have to disperse on the order of the sergeant of police? What kind of thing does the Parliament have in mind, if it passes this Bill, that would be acceptable as a reasonable excuse? I think it is important that the Attorney-General give some indication of this because I think magistrates dealing with it need some guidance about what the Parliament intends, and there is no indication whatever in the Bill about what the Parliament does intend. All the way through this debate we have been told that this Bill is doing something about rights but nowhere has anyone on behalf of the Government said anything that would indicate what a right is. What is the right here in respect of a reasonable excuse? 
The second point I want to make is the one that was dealt with by the honourable member for Bendigo about some aspects although at the time he spoke the AttorneyGeneral was not listening. Does the Attorney-General realise that in the latter part of sub-clause (4.) (b) he is giving to any person at all the power to use such force as he believes necessary to disperse an assembly that has been told to disperse by a member of the police force of the rank of sergeant or above? It is not a person who is asked to do so by a member of the police force and it is not a member of the police force, it is any person who is given power to use whatever force he believes to be necessary, reasonably proportionate to the danger that he envisages, in order to disperse this assembly. Does the Attorney-General consider that there is any danger in this? Does he not envisage and does not anyone else on the Government side envisage the possibility that when an assembly occurs, and a member of the police force of the rank of sergeant or above has what he considers to be a reasonable apprehension about it, and gives out an order to disperse, that then any member of the community, whoever he is, is entitled to use whatever force he considers to be necessary to disperse anyone in that assembly? 
I think this is a most objectionable provision. I do not think I have ever seen a more objectionable provision than this in any law. Perhaps there is a precedent. Perhaps it has occurred somewhere else, but if it has I do not know of it. What is the background to this? Where did the Government get it from? I think those are two serious questions and the Opposition is entitled to some considered answer by the Attorney-General. I leave them with him and hope that he will have enough respect for the principles of law to provide an answer to them. 
 Mr Chairman,  I propose seriously that at this stage progress be reported because the Bill cannot be passed tonight. 
But the Bill cannot be passed tonight. The Government would not have the numbers if we refused leave for the third reading to be moved forthwith. Would not that course be much more reasonable? Why should the AttorneyGeneral be so obstinate? We have 2 amendments which we wish to move and at 2.15 a.m. it seems quite unreasonable to persist with this obstinacy. Is it not a much fairer proposition to take a little time tomorrow and give the members who want to move amendments a reasonable opportunity to do so? Why does the Attorney-General maintain this obstinacy? I move: 
That progress be reported. 
I move the following amendment: 
Omit 'now' and add 'this day six months'. 
Question put: 
That the word proposed to be left out  (Dr J. F. Cairns' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
ns asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is 43,960 the cumulative total of those who have failed to register for national service to 31 December 1970. 
Was it found that there was no default in. 23,435 of these cases. 
If so, what are the main' reasons why it was found that there was no default in the case of the 23,435 persons failing to register. 
Were explanations accepted in 8,374 of these cases. 
What were the main reasons why explanations were accepted in these cases. 
Had investigations been proceeding for more than 3 months in 7,276 cases and for less than 3 months in 2,888 cases. 
How many persons are engaged in making these investigations, and when is it expected that they will be completed. 
In how many cases have investigations proceeded for (a) more than 6 months, (b) one year, (c) one and a half years, (d) two years and (e) longer than two years. 
The House and industry and many other people have waited many, many months for a statement by the Minister for Trade and 
Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and by his predecessor which would give them some guidance on the making of tariffs, a subject on which guidance has been very much needed. I am not sure that this statement can be said to have filled the gap in any way. It seems to me to be fairly abstract and ambiguous. In many ways ' it really says nothing about Government policy on tariffs and I do not think any manufacturer in the country could see in the statement anything which would guide him in being able to judge what would occur in given circumstances. In a sense this statement means anything, it means everything and it means nothing. The Minister recognises the importance of manufacturing industry directly in employing. 28 per cent of the workforce and in accounting for 28 per cent of the gross national product and indirectly because a very substantial proportion of all Australian employees and their dependants depend directly upon protected manufacturing industry; I should think the figure would be well over half. He could have mentioned the substantial proportion of primary products consumed in Australia. In all primary industries except perhaps wheat and wool the percentage would be more than half. 
The Minister could have explained to the House the importance of preventing some wedge from being driven between one section of the community and another in respect of protection. He could have appealed to his own supporters to appreciate the significance of protected Australian industry to the Australian farmer as a market and not be concerned with one side of the question alone as some of his supporters have been as recently as last evening. The Minister then turned to costs and placed wage costs first in his statement of costs. So do his supporters; so do all the critics. Australian industry has costs in excess of industries overseas, in many cases, and the implication is that the main reason for this is high wage costs. The Minister has said nothing in this statement on this question except to give wage costs again pride of place. But the Customs Tariff Bill that is before the House is based upon a number of reports which show clearly - if the Minister and his supporters want to read them - that wage costs are a very small proportion of the total costs of the industries which are reported on. I refer to factice, vulcanised rubber, weighing machines, pencils, crayons, chalks, alloy steel, vinyl acetate, screws for wood, copper. gauze, nitrogenous fertilisers and acetone derivatives. In all these cases and some others - they were the only ones that I found quickly - these are industries in . which the Tariff Board reports that wage costs are a very small proportion of the total costs, and if we are concerned with costs it is time that we got this question of costs into proportion. 
I am sorry that the Minister's statement still holds the old prejudices in respect of that. The Minister said that many Australian industries face costs higher than those of their overseas competitors, but that protection is essential. He continued: 
This does not mean that we. should have protection at any price. We must be selective. Protection of industries involves a cost to the community. It is the responsibility of government to seek to ensure that protection is afforded only where the benefits to the community exceed the cost involved, and even then, that the protection given is no higher than is necessary. 
That statement is completely unexceptionable. How could it be otherwise? But how do we know when benefits will exceed the costs? How are we to find out? I do not think the Minister's statement has added anything to the lack of information that has persisted on- this' question for several years now, about how we are going to find out whether benefits exceed the cost and about what sort of machinery we need for this purpose. Are' we satisfied with things as they are? Obviously this statement is satisfied with things as. they are. 
The Minister then went on to deal with guidelines and it seems tq me that the Government is thinking' of the answer to this question of how we find out simply in terms of guidelines. There are 2 traditional guidelines to which the Minister correctly directed our attention in his speech. He spoke of only 2 specific guidelines, both contained in commitments first given in 1932: He said: 
These were that protection would be afforded only to those industries reasonably assured of sound opportunities for success; and that protection would not exceed a level which would give United Kingdom industry full opportunity for reasonable competition on the basis of the relative costs of 'economic and efficient' production. 
These are inadequate guidelines. They were laid down at a time when Australian industry and the Australian economy had their backs to the wall. They were laid down for the advantage of industry in the United Kingdom, not Australian industry. These were guidelines which expressed a balance of economic power at the" time which was very much in the United Kingdom but not in Australia. We had at the time about one third of our work force out of employment, we owed England more than we could pay, we had a visit from  Sir Otto  Niemeyer and we were on the receiving end. These guidelines were laid down in those circumstances. They are obviously not good enough; new ones are needed. The Government has recognised this but it has been neglectful. In the face of its neglect the Tariff Board has taken a new approach. It has gone out on its own in the absence of guidelines. The Minister is not responsible for this because he has not been the Minister for too long. In his speech the Minister said that the Tariff Board's new approach is a systematic review of the tariff, the establishment of points of reference based on the concept of effective rates of protection. The Tariff Board, first of all, cannot carry this into effect; it has not got the means. I refer to the 1969-70 report, the fourth report in which this matter was brought to the attention of the Government. The report said: 
The resources available to the Board have been fully occupied on normal tariff revision inquiries (including inquiries on some sections of chapter 84 of the Tariff) and dumping and NZAFTA inquiries. Additional staff was therefore sought to enable the Board to begin the systematic review referred to in the previous section. 
That is the same systematic review to which the Minister referred. The report continued: 
The Public Service Board recommended the creation of the additional staff positions at the beginning of June 1970. It is understood that this recommendation has not yet- 
It was 8 months later when the Board wrote this:  . . been submitted to the Executive Council by the Minister. In reply to a letter from the  Chairman  of the Board, the Acting Minister has said that the matter raised important policy questions which he would discuss with the Minister for Trade and Industry at the first opportunity. The Minister has recently informed the Board that he expects a significant increase in the number of by-law, dumping and NZAFTA matters referred to the Board. 
The Board has never been equipped even to begin its systematic review. 
Well, what has been the increase in staff? You might have told us today because this is much more important than a few abstract guidelines. I had a question on .the notice paper for some time and I do not think the information which the Minister gave me in reply adds much to what we had before. I think the Government has been deliberately concealing this and delaying the appointment of extra staff to the Tariff Board. In my opinion the Tariff Board is even now under-equipped for ite job. What is the good of talking about guidelines if you have a recommendatory board without the staff to do its job? I submit that the Tariff Board does not have the staff. 
I next want to refer to the classification of the Tariff Board in relation to high, medium and low cost industries and what the Tariff Board proposes to do. Presumably the Tariff Board proposes in the case of 50 per cent or over to contain these industries; it says so. What we want to know and what the nation wants to know is what the Government intends to do in such circumstances. But the Minister has given no indication about this. If the Tariff Board recommends reductions in tariffs in this 50 per cent area, as it did recently with agricultural machinery, in circumstances which indicate that that industry is going out of existence in Australia, what is the attitude of the Government towards this? I think in this case the companies concerned - the 2 main companies at any rate - do not seem to be much worried that the industry is going out of existence in Australia because they will by supplying to Australia from their overseas plants the same things they were manufacturing here, and this suits them better. But does it suit us better? There is no indication in what the Minister has said on any standard of reference at all as to how we could answer that question. 
The Minister speaks of his consultations, but there have been no consultations with any unions, none with any workers, none with any people who might be disemployed as a result of any of these changes. There have been consultations only with a select section of the economic community, such as manufacturers, Chambers of Commerce, farmers federations, graziers councils. They are 3 to 1 in favour of tariff reductions, I suppose, or, if we weighted them according to the influence they might have, we might have to double that ratio to 6 to 1. There have been no consultations with any unions and if the unions come up later with action the Government . will say that they should be quiet for they have nothing to do with it; that is not their role. If  Mr Hawke  says anything about it, that will not be his job. But  Mr Hawke  was never called into consultation by the Minister. The Minister in. his speech recognised the anxiety among manufacturers that these points of reference will become the main determinant iri setting levels of protection. The Minister or whoever wrote this speech skated very carefully around ' this. He will not face this question of. what is. to be done for the anxious manufacturers, if the Tariff Board goes ahead with its points of reference. The speech' provided no answer except to say that there has been a preoccupation with costs and less consideration to benefits. 
I am sorry that the honourable member chooses interjections rather than speeches to explain what he means. The Minister set out the other factors that he thinks should be taken into account. I will not read what he said. I submit they are meaningless. I submit that what he said can. mean anything or everything, or it could mean nothing. It gives no guidance to any anxious manufacturer about what is going to happen, what standards or factors additional to the ones the Tariff Board has stated the Government will take into account when weighing whether it will accept the report of the Board in this high cost field. There is no indication at all. The Government is leaving its options deliberately open. It does not want to displease its freer trade supporters - the pastoralists, the graziers, the Chambers of Commerce. Neither does it want to displease the manufacturers. It is keeping its options completely open but this is not the role of a government. Finally, the Government does not face the facts of life, the inevitability of change. It does not face the fact that industries will have to close, that workers will have to lose their jobs as a result of all these things. It does not face the job of equipping the Tariff Board to ascertain the facts. It has not done so and the Tariff Board is not so equipped. The Government does not face the responsibility of having to get reports into this House which tell the facts of industry. It does not tell Parliament the facts. 
I am glad to have heard the speech delivered by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  He has said a great deal more that what he said when the Bill was introduced originally. He certainly has answered quite a number of questionsseveral questions, at any rate - that I felt I would otherwise like to raise. This means that my speech on this Bill will be cut very short indeed. The Minister left me in some doubt as to whether or not the contribution that is made by the producing country is a compulsory one. What are the limiting factors in agreement or practice which determine that Australia was able to have a contribution based on exports rather than production? Is this a. normal arrangement made in the International Tin Agreement or is there something unusual about this arrangement? 
--I thank the Minister. 
The International Tin Agreement has operated since 1956.., This is the fifth phase of it and it will last for 5 years. It is a rational, humane, and. civilised way of conducting world trade. I think that it is important for a moment to ask the question: Why is it that arrangements of this sort can be reachedwith respect to tin but cannot be reached with respect to other commodities? 

 The Agreement has developed in this present phase. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a net importer of tin, has signed for the first time and the Federal Republic of Germany has also signed the Agreement for the first time. But the United States of America, still, it would seem, very much an independent free trader in commodities as far as it concerns other nations, has still not signed the Agreement. 
In some senses this Agreement is a collusive and restrictive one but it is one in which the consumers as well as the producers have an effective say as distinct from most collusive and restrictive agreements, and this must have a significant influence on the" prices and conditions' "f fiat operate in the international trading of tin. But this kind of agreement depends upon effective participation by the members and from the Australian point of view it depends upon effective participation by Australia both to achieve Australia's interests and to achieve - I would hope- international interests, lt is in the interests of producers of every commodity that there should be a rational, sensible way of controlling the way in which it is sold. There is nothing to be said for the methods of the jungle in international trade, nothing to be said for violent fluctuations - or any fluctuations at all, for that matter - and this is an example of the way in which world trade in any commodity may be rationally controlled in a civilised way. It is the way in which one would expect all commodities of significance eventually to be traded. 
 I want to emphasise that point particularly because it has not been emphasised so -far in the debate. This is a rational and civilised way of trading .md there is no reason why it should not apply to every commodity. There is no reason why we should not have a similar international arrangement for wool and one for wheat. There is no reason why such an arrangement should not be able to give greater stability and greater certainty in predicting the future and for better prospects of determining conditions of production and deciding upon future outlay. It would seem to me that this is the kind of advocacy that ought to be coming from all producers and particularly, I suggest, from Australian Country Party supporters who "are not in the habit of making it. Why can we not have a similar international agreement about wheat and wool? Why do we have to go through these terrible traumas of great fluctuations? Why do we worship uncontrolled nature so much? Once upon a time that was what happened in public health. Every now and again we would have a world epidemic which swept hundreds of thousands of millions of people out of existence but we do not worship that sort of thing any longer. 
We have now established various measures of public health control which have eliminated most of these epidemics that used once to sweep the world but we still believe in epidemics in trade. We still accept these things as though they were beyond our control. But the establishment and operation of an agreement like the International Tin Agreement shows that these things are not beyond our control and they raise objectives that everyone concerned with international wellbeing, as well as the wellbeing of the national producer, ought to be willing to support strongly. So I commend this Agreement. The Opposition supports the Bill giving effect to it. I direct the attention of the House, and the Government in particular, to this Agreement as an example of the way in which international trade in every commodity of significance could eventually be organised and the way in which I hope, in particular, commodities like wheat and wool that are important to Australia will be organised. The Opposition supports the Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I suggest that this might' be a convenient time to suspend the sitting. 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8 p.m. 
(Quorum formed) Tariffs are a means of using the powers of government to protect or assist members of the community. Such a principle is realistic and sensible and no-one can afford to claim to stand against it, least of all representatives of farmers. Our purpose should not be to attempt to justify the principle or contend against the principle but to be concerned to work out ways of using it intelligently and effectively. It can be said that one of the main differences between those on this side of the House and those on the Government side, and between the Labor movement as a whole and all those business interests - and by no means all of them - who are or have been most opposed to the Labor movement is that those business interests and their political representatives in Parliament want to leave it to the market to decide what economic activity shall be carried on and what wages and prices shall be. But the Labor movement has no great affection for the market and wants to see built up various public institutions to protect people against the impact of the market and to provide for them the things that the market does not provide. 
The market is not a process which arranges for capital and labour to be employed where it is most efficient and economic, nor is it a process that ensures that people will be rewarded fairly or even proportionately to their efficiency or productivity. Insofar as the market departs from the conditions of perfect competition, it departs from the conditions assumed to be necessary tor these results. The market in fact contains nothing like the conditions of perfect competition. It is increasingly dominated by a few vast organisations more and  mon  controlled from foreign countries. People still talk and argue as though the myths drawn from perfect competition are a good description of the way the economy works. They are not. The most significant economic decisions that have been made in Australian history, have been those made to protect Australia from the full effects of economic power exercised by vast organisations in other countries, largely in western Europe and the United States of America. To develop the means to secure this protection has always been the most urgent need for every small. country. Australia, still being a small country, requires not less of these means but more. The debate about tariffs fits into this context. 
There are those who say that tariffs should be simplified and reduced, and that then Australia should rely mainly upon the market for what is to happen. They argue that if this occurs resources will be employed in the most efficient and economic places, and .they argue that full employment, not being dependent upon tariffs, will remain secure. I believe there could be tariff reductions without endangering full employment, but I do not accept the other assumptions that appear in the freer trade case. We do not know whether resources, after tariff reductions, would be employed in most or even in more efficient places or that the Australian economy would benefit from the change. This is, first, because the economy is not competitive. We may eliminate an industry only to find that we may have to pay much more to a foreign monopoly for what the Australian industry produced, even though the foreign "monopoly produces at a lower cost than did the eliminated Australian industry. No-one can disprove that proposition. In international trade economic power is used even more ruthlessly than it is in domestic trade, and the Australian Labor Party will never consent to any change which hands over to the foreign corporations more and more power over the Australian people. 
There are others who take part in the debate about tariffs who say no more than that the tariffs should never be reduced. In fact, they take a position similar to that of the freer trade school. They too rely mainly upon the market. They want to keep the tariff wall a bit higher but they are content to allow the market to do whatever it can do over that wail. Neither school has much that is useful to offer for the economic progress of Australia. It is not the policy of the Australian Labor Party to rely more and more upon the market economy to maintain full employment, efficient and economic operation of the economy or a fairer distribution of the national income. It is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to develop more fully the means we need so that we may know more about the actual operation of the economy and know more about what may be done to get the best results in the future. 
An Australian Labor Party government will be concerned to ensure that Australian resources are economically and efficiently used and that no excess prices are charged or unfair profits or other returns are made. An Australian Labor Party government will not permit an Australian industry to exploit protection to make excess profits by charging high prices. But equally an Australian Labor Party government will not permit under any circumstances an Australian industry which is operating economically and efficiently, and which is not charging high prices and making excessive profits, to be swept aside merely because some overseas competitor for a time may be able or willing to land goods at a lower price. With an Australian Labor Party government in office the Australian people can be assured that all those who work economically and efficiently will be protected, but no-one will be allowed to make excessive profits. 
Government supporters often say that the Commonwealth Government cannot do this because it does not have sufficient constitutional power. But the Commonwealth Government can achieve this result by the way it makes and applies tariff protection. The Tariff Board can make sure not only that those in Australia who work economically and efficiently shall be protected but equally that people do not make excess profits. But it has never been the purpose of any Liberal-Country Party coalition to ensure protection on the one hand and to ensure that excess profits are not made on the other hand. Its purpose has been confined only to protection. To take any action about excess profits would completely contradict everything that . the Liberal-Country Party coalition stands for. It would make nonsense out of every word of its ideology, its political jargon and its policy. Protection, yes; but to. prevent excess profits, no, never. 
This is why the case made by such freer trade advocates as the honourable members for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and Angas  (Mr Giles)  is so oldfashioned and rudimentary. They do not want to prevent favoured people from using their economic power to make excess profits. This is not what they mean when they say they want more competition to ensure that resources are used more efficiently and economically. They do not really apply tests that relate to the economy as a whole or to the national interest. They merely stand for one economic interest against another. They believe that farmers would be better off if they could buy machinery, fertiliser, clothes or  100  other things at lower cost. They believe that importers, the chambers of commerce and international financiers would be better off if there were fewer restrictions in international trade and they could do just what they liked. The Press that speaks for these interests - the financial interests, mainly, and the farmers - like the 'Sydney Morning Herald' brood of newspapers, the 'Australian Financial Review' and so on do not support freer trade because it might result in greater efficiency. They support freer trade mainly because it would benefit certain economic interests that own or. support them. 
The Australian Labor Party stands for certain interests too. It stands primarily for' the Australian worker and his family. Tariff protection more than anything else determines whether the worker will keep his job or whether he will be thrown out to search for one elsewhere. Human welfare and real people are involved iri this. This is not just a matter of theory and jargon. The Australian Labor Party will never adopt a policy that may cause an upheaval in the lives of ordinary people simply because of some abstract economic theory preached by academics some of whom do live mainly in ivory towers, by writers in financial newspapers, or by ever so humble members of this Parliament. A Labor government will not permit any Australian industry to be deprived of 'protection unless it is reasonably sure of the consequences. But a Labor government will not permit a protected industry to exploit- :the' public by charging excess prices. Those are  2  cardinal principles of the Labor approach. But theold methods of protection- are totally inadequate. 
Protection has often been decided on without adequate knowledge of the industry concerned or of its prospects. There are many industries which receive '. protection that have never been examined for years.. Protection has often been, granted although the Tariff Board is well aware there are monopolies at work and that collusive and restrictive practices prevail. Even in tariffs proposed in this very Bill there are several examples of that. Tariff protection has been exploited in this way for years under governments that have been continuously supported by honourable members such as the honourable members for Wakefield, Corangamite, McMillan and Angas and by the financial newspapers which pretend now to be concerned so much about efficiency and exploitation. No, it is not' excess profits and feather bedding that worries them; it is that certain people and not others should have the excess profits and the feather beds. 
Changes must take place ; in industry. They must take place in any . economy. An economy must be geared ; so that it can make necessary changes quickly and with the least resistance. From time to time some industries must contract; others must expand. Some have to close down. Some workers may., if they choose, remain in one factory all their working lives. Others may have to lose one job and move to another when they do not want to dp 'so/ It will be the purpose of an Australian Labor Party government to face these facts. Briefly, it will be the purpose of an Australian Labor Party government to do the following: Firstly, to equip the Tariff Board, or some similar body, to be able quickly to ascertain all the relevant facts about any industry, under inquiry, which the Tariff Board now cannot do; secondly, to require the Tariff Board, or some similar body, fully to report all those facts to the government and to the Parliament so that those who have to make in the public interest decisions about tariffs, or no tariffs, will be sufficiently informed to be able to do so. We are not now sufficiently informed. We have a miserable standard of information upon which to base our decisions. Thirdly, a Labor government would plan changes in industry, or in simple words, it would be able to indicate to, or warn industry or those involved, that they can rely upon protection without conditions, or under specified conditions, for at least a period, or to a certain date. No industry should be cut down without reasonable warning and every industry should know that as long as it remains efficient and economic' it will not be allowed to be cut down. Fourthly, it would ensure that every worker who loses his job because it has been judged to be in the public interest to reduce or eliminate a tariff that has protected him will be guaranteed a living wage until he gets another job, and he will have guaranteed to him, if he should want it, a retraining course calculated even to raise his skill and income in a new position. A worker does not have that at the moment. What we pretend to have in this field is just humbug. This is not because of the faults of anyone in particular who administers this field but because governments have never seriously tackled the job of transferring resources and retraining people. 
The Jeremiahs, the old men of the Parliament - those who know nothing of what modern methods can do - will say that this cannot be done. I will leave such as the honourable members for Wakefield, Corangamite, Angas and McMillan to advance the argument that it cannot be done and that we cannot afford it. I will leave the Jeremiahs and the old men of the Parliament to do that. But there has never been an advance in social welfare, or in public economic management that such members have ever received in any other way. They have always said that it could not be afforded or that it cannot be done. This is not because they really believe that it cannot be afforded or done, but because they want to leave the power to do these things to what they call the market, and by leaving them to the market all it means is that they leave theses decisions to their own friends - the owners and managers of banks and other businesses. That is what it is all about. They stand for particular economic and social groups and interests. We stand for different economic groups and social interests. It is not just a matter of wisdom, intelligence, brilliance or being foolish. This side of the House represents 2 different sections of this nation. Those sections have to be represented here. 
The honourable members to whom I referred cannot openly say that decisions about the future of workers and their families should be left alone to bank managers and managers of businesses. They have to say that something different, that it cannot be done or cannot be afforded. If enough people believe them then the bank managers, business managers and financial newspaper proprietors will be left with all the power to say what is to happen to workers and their families. This is what tariff policy is really all about. It is not just a matter of greater or less efficiency, greater or less ability or greater or less humility. It is also a matter of economic power and who shall exercise it. It is a matter of social prestige and who shall have it. It is a matter of the old against the new. It is a matter of the public interest against the private. Private interest has its role to play but Australia must be equipped with public bodies capable of getting the facts and giving the best possible and most informed advice about the future. The Tariff Board is not able to do this. 
I want to make my position clear about the Tariff Board. I have no reason to believe that anyone associated with the Tariff Board is not efficient, capable and a person of integrity. I make no criticism that anyone is inefficient. I do not imply that anyone associated with the Board is not a fully competent and honest public servant. But I do say that the Board is not, and never has been, equipped to do its job. For several years now the Board,. has reported that it wants to make more systematic inquiries, that it wants to examine the relations of one section of industry to others, that it wants to examine tariffs that have not been examined for years. The Board has been reporting in this way for at least 4 years. In its last report the Board stated - I read to the House today an extract from this report - that it has been seeking an increase in its staff since way back in 1968 or 1969 and that this increase was held up by the Minister for Customs and Excise or the Minister for Trade and Industry; the increase was held up by someone as a matter of policy and was not submitted to the Executive Council for 8 long months. 
This is on page 9, in paragraph 55 of the 1969-70 report. 
No. I said the Minister for Customs and Excise or the Minister for Trade and Industry. I am not sure who it was, but somebody did. 
No, I cannot be sure of that, but the extract of the Tariff Board report points to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I cannot be absolutely sure who was responsible for holding it up. The Minister for Trade and Industry has told us nothing. In addition to this, the Minister was obliged to answer question on notice No. 2865 by admitting that the number of references then held by the Board on which no report had been made was 54 and. that 18 had been with the Board for 1 year, 9 for 2 years, 3 for 3 years, 2 for 4 years and 1 for more than 4 years. 
With the Board reporting that 'the resources available to it have been fully occupied on normal tariff revision inquiries', with the Minister telling the Board that he expects a significant increase in at least some normal inquiries and with 54 normal revisions in hand, 18 for a year, 9 for 2 years, 3 for 3 years, 2 for 4 years and 1 for more than 4 years, why is it a matter 'of policy' whether the Tariff Board should get the staff it has requested; and why had 8 months to expire and yet the request of the Board for more , staff had not even been submitted to Executive Council? Even if the Board. gets the staff it has asked for my point still' remains. The Board will be far from equipped with the necessary staff to do its job. "How can it be denied that in these circumstances the Tariff Board is not equipped' to make its inquiries fully enough?' With the Tariff Board so badly equipped ' it is obvious that it cannot inform the Parliament whether tariffs should be retained or removed. 
I believe that it is contrary to the policy and intention of the Government to equip the Tariff Board so that. it. may ascertain and report a full range of facts.-' The Government wants tariffs to be retained or removed but it does not want industry to be scrutinised. How is it that /the advocates of freer trade have said so little about the delays in inquiries and about' the lack of staff at the Board? Why is it that they praise Tariff Board reports for t their adequacy . and completeness , of information when it is obvious that they i&gt;re very poor in the information they ! provide? One hardly ever finds one Tariff Board report that is set but  similarly to another. One  hardly ever finds any information about costs or any explanation why costs here might happen to be higher than elsewhere. In that very important sector of Board reports relating to costs much is padding and much is not of any value at ali. It is obviously put there as a substitute for real information. Members opposite cannot expect the Board to. be ,in It position other than that which it is in. It has not the means to find out,' nor has it the approach which is necessary for it to find out, information. 
These advocates of freer trade differ from the rest of the Government only because the Government wants the status quo to rumble on without examination and change whereas they want tariffs to be cut or removed, but equally as much without scrutiny. They know very well that an adequate examination may show that a tariff should not be cut or removed, and that is not what they want. There can be no possible dispute for the conclusion that the Tariff Board is not equipped to make the inquiries it is sure should be made, even at the level it makes inquiries now. But is that level or extent of inquiry sufficient? It is not, for the reasons that I have given. Even a quick reading of almost any Tariff Board report .will show that it is not It is only in recent times that we have been finding in Tariff Board reports summaries of information which is available from the Commonwealth Statistician and  which  could have been obtained from that source in the past. Hardly ever do we get a systematic presentation in a report. Who are the producers of the products? How many of them are there? Where are they located? What are the expected levels of future imports? Where do they come from? Why are costs higher here, or if they are lower here, why is there a difference? Hardly ever is this important question of comparative costs .properly handled. 
A report Should begin with -a statement of the reference made by the Minister. It should then show in the clearest possible way what the old rates were and what the new rates will be. Sometimes one has to search through a report to find this simple information. A brief history of the industry and the tariffs in question should be included. That information appears sometimes, but frequently it does not. Then in the report should come a statement on the industry - the number of firms, their location, the size of the industry, the number of people employed and the amount of funds employed. .In most cases when this is referred to at all we are told that the information is not available because it has been given confidentially. If this Parliament is to grant tariffs, which means millions of dollars in the allocation of resources, members must not be satisfied to leave so much under the secrecy of what is confidential. No Parliament can decide upon a tariff without that kind of information. At best there are rarely any more than hints that the Board has been given some information confidentially about these important things. In their reports, in all cases there should be a clear statement of imports and import prices and how each has changed over the relevant period. 
Careful attention must be given to ascertaining and stating actual costs of production in Australia and comparative overseas costs. In every case there must be information, in a systematic way, showing why Australian costs may be different from overseas costs. At best there is rarely any satis factory information about costs, and the sections of the reports dealing with them are invariably general and abstract. It is cost and comparative cost situations, and the reasons for differences, that represents the core of a report, but often there is no core at all, and when there is it is frequently incomplete and vague. The Board also should set out in any report recommending any reduction in tariff whether it considers that the industry should be given any notice of the change - this is never, even considered - and what it considers will happen if the tariff is reduced. We must have some picture of what will happen if we slash a tariff. We should have some information about what will happen to the people involved, but never is any attention given to this aspect. Never is any attention given by the Board, the Government or anyone else to the alternative possibilities of employment and to the necessity for retraining employees in situations like this. The Board should be able to take into account the number of people who may be disemployed or drawn into employment by a tariff change, and it should be able to say what alternative employment there is or where workers will come from if more are needed. This subject is never dealt with. The Board should be able to say whether any disemployed workers will be suitable for retraining, or what might otherwise happen to them. 
We have, in this Bill, one case - the manufacture of wood screws - in which profitability does not appear to have been satisfactory, but on top of that 2 new firms joined the 3 already in the industry. They must have added to the over-capacity that appears to have been there already, but despite this situation the Board recommended a higher tariff. Is the Board never concerned with the number of firms in an industry and is it prepared to fix a tariff to protect an industry and then leave the firms to fight out the result, wasting resources because they have been protected? There may well be a vast waste of resources. The Australian industry might be very efficient and economic in one form, but not in the form that it has taken - often because of the kind of decision that has been made by the Board and by the Government. The Board, using its present methods, may, in fact, cause inefficiency and lack of economy in an Australian industry which, except for the Board's decision, may have taken on an economic and efficient form of structure. All of these things are possibilities yet we have had from the Minister this afternoon a statement full of abstract nonsense and in no way coming to grips with that situation. This has gone on for long enough. For  5  or  6  long years we have been debating tariffs in this House without ever having come to grips with the subject, merely talking of tariffs of protection and of free trade of theories which may have meaning or none at all. That is what it has amounted to. It has been wasted time. We must come to the realities. We must have the necessary knowledge to develop industry through tariffs and other means. On this side of the House we must realise that we are a planning Party and that we intend, if we can, to find out where we should be going. We intend to lead this nation, as well as we can, along that way. 
The Opposition will vote against the second reading of this Bill and will continue to vote against Customs Tariffs Bills in this House until at least  4  conditions ' are satisfied. Firstly, that the Tariff Board or a similar body is fully equipped quickly to ascertain all the relevant facts about any industry under inquiry or any industry that should be under inquiry. Secondly, that reports from this body are adequate enough to allow the Government and the Parliament to decide what should be done about tariffs or other related matters. Thirdly, that sufficient notice of changes is given to allow all those affected to plan to meet the changes. Fourthly, that every worker who loses bis job because of any changes will be guaranteed a living wage and should have available to him a retraining course calculated even to raise his skill and income in a new position. 
This is the policy of the Australian Labor Party and until these conditions at least are present we will not be voting for any tariff legislation. 
Our platform is that we accept protection as long as we are satisfied that prices are properly controlled. 
That is for the parliamentary Party to determine and we have determined it. I challenge you,  Mr Minister,  and anyone on your side, to say what your policy is and to stop giving us the meaningless nonsense which was served up this afternoon by the Minister, in the guise of guidelines for the Tariff Board. We have told you what our policy is, clearly and unequivocally. I have told you the conditions under which we will continue to vote against these Bills. I throw the ball over to you. Now you tell us what your attitude to tariff making in this nation is. 
For too long you have been living on ambiguities and abstract nonsense. The time has come to an end when you can' do that. The challenge is thrown over to you' and I am waiting for you to answer it. 
The tariffs which are the subject of this Bill are covered in  23  or  24  reports of the Tariff Board and the Special Advisory Authority. All the tariffs are in the range of what the Tariff Board would call medium to low tariff rates. There are none in the  50  per cent or over category. Of the main commodities - something like  23  or  24  of them - there are  11  decreases in tariffs and  17  increases. It is difficult to weigh the net effect that this Bill will have. Many of the products concerned are of very minor significance. Some of the industries employ very few people and in some cases it appears rather strange that so much attention should be given to them when one considers the smallness of the resources involved. In some cases, such as the production of extrusion presses which are enormous items weighing from  2,000  tons to  5,000  tons, it is very difficult to imagine bow anybody can look into the future and say whether this industry will be efficient and economic. It is a matter very largely of the number of presses made and the experience gained. It is very apparent that we will never make many of these presses and therefore we will never have much experienced in this field. However, there is to be an increase of  20  per cent or  221  per cent in the tariff on this product. Perhaps  7  or  9  of them will be produced in the foreseeable future. 
Honourable members should not get the impression that many of these items are significant because many of them are not. In view of the time and the work involved it may sometimes be doubtful whether increased tariffs on some of the items are desirable. The production of cinematograph projectors in Australia is a new venture. The Hanimex company is just beginning and it is very much a matter of speculation as to the company's future. Once upon a time tariffs were not granted unless an industry was actually in operation. I do not say that the Opposition necessarily adopts that approach but this is a clear example of an industry which in terms of operation does not exist. 
Both my colleagues from Tasmania have spoken about the increased tariff of  10  per cent on one production unit of calcium carbide in Australia. It seems to me that this is an increase that can be fully supported and the Opposition does fully support it. This item illustrates the position taken by honourable members on the other side of the House who are critics of tariffs. By Australian standards calcium carbide is produced efficiently in Tasmania. The plant in Tasmania produces about  14,000  tons. Plants in other parts of the world produce more than  100,000  tons. If the freer trade school is going to take the position that we should not produce anything in Australia unless we can reach a plant of comparable size, what will we have left? Reference was made to the production of motor cars by  4  companies in America and  4  companies in Australia. What hence do we do? Produce none? What steps do we take to have only  1  motor car company or  2  companies? If we have one or two companies, which are they to be? If we have Holdens and Fords manufactured here, do we bring in other makes without any tariff obstruction? When many of these theoretical submissions that come from the freer trade school are applied to what actually happens and the alternative is considered, one sees how completely abstract the approach is. 
There are a couple of other points that 1 should like to mention in the Committee stage. I refer to vulcanised rubber sheets for which the Tariff Board recommends an increase of tariff, although not a significant increase, of 10 per cent in the general rate and 74 per cent in the preferential rate. In this case the Board reported at page 7 of its report that there is a registered trade agreement between local manufacturers. No doubt this is restrictive and collusive, but it is accepted as a matter of course by the Board. I wonder whether that is satisfactory and whether the Government has really faced the consequences of this situation. On the one hand the Government is supposed to take a position that it is against restrictive and collusive practices, yet on the other hand it grants an increase in tariffs to people who practise these things, lt seems to me that there is an unexplored area here for decision making in a situation which is not adequate as it is. 
Another case involves footwear, where there is no change in the tariff rates really. In this case there are about a dozen producers in a situation which economically is not very sound. There has been much readjustment in the industry in the last 2 or  3  years and probably much more will have to take place. In this case the Board reports that it was hampered by the unwillingness of manufacturers to supply evidence. If I were in charge of this matter and the Board reported to me that it had been hampered by the unwillingness of manufacturers to supply evidence, despite what their trade associations wanted them to do, I think I would take the position that I would be hardly willing to grant them protection. 
These are a number of the points that 1 think we should examine a bit more closely in the Committee stage, but there are dozens of other points also. In many ways I would like to have time to explore them. I have mentioned just a few examples. One matter that I mentioned earlier but which I shall mention again is the question of screws for wood. In this case there were 2 producers, Nettlefolds Pty Ltd and Sidney Cooke Fasteners Pty Ltd. The industry was not profitable. It appeared to have excess capacity. Then 
Spurway's Industries Pty Ltd and A. N. Cooke Manufacturing Co. Pty Ltd opened up in 1969 and probably increased capacity considerably. But despite this situation, there has been an increase of 71 per cent in the general tariff and about 174- per cent in the preferential rate. I recall the case a year or two ago involving the production of engines for lawnmowers, in which something like this occurred. Undoubtedly the protection granted secured the position of someone who deliberately and unwisely had gone into over-capacity. In the little time remaining to me I want to conclude by saying that tonight I have put forward the Labor Party's policy on tariffs, but it appears to have gone unnoticed. 
If there is no objection, I will take my second period now. I have made it clear that industry does not have to rely upon some rather abstract sentences, such as those contained in the statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  today. I said quite clearly that a Labor government will not permit any Australian industry to be deprived of protection unless we are reasonably sure of the consequences. We will not permit any Australian industry which is efficient and economic on Australian standards to be deprived of protection. But a Labor government will not permit a protected industry to exploit the public by charging excess prices. 
I made the point clearly that the difference between the Opposition and the Government on this point is a significant one. I believe that the Government has been prepared to support protection over the years irrespective of the prices charged and irrespective of whether the profits were excessive. Labor will not do this. If an industry requires tariff protection and cannot operate without it, we will give that industry, if it is economic and efficient, protection for its own needs, but we will not permit it to charge excess prices and to make excess profits. It seems to me that this is an area in which a considerable amount of debate about whether tariffs are proper will take place - not altogether a debate about whether this industry or (hat industry is economic or efficient, but a debate about whether an industry is in fact charging high prices and making excess profits. Very often that is the question involved. 
I also pointed out that it would be completely inconsistent with the ideology or practice of the Government parties to tackle that problem. A Labor government will tackle that problem. I also said that I believe that changes must take place in industry. They must take place in any economy. An economy must be geared so that it can make the necessary changes quickly and with the least resistance. One of the results of tariff making - the way it has been done - is that changes cannot be made quickly and when they are made they meet resistance. A particular example of that is the matter of cherries. The Tariff Board, in a report which is open to criticism in certain ways - and this is the last point I want to mention this evening - has recommended in the case of brined and preserved cherries, which account probably for no more than one-third of the Australian production of cherries, if that much, the elimination of the tariffs or a reduction of approximately 35 per cent to 40 per cent in the tariffs. 
This recommendation immediately provoked opposition from cherry growers, and the effectiveness of demonstration has been proved, as it so often is proved. It is ridiculous for people simply to say: 'We will elect a government and then wait until the next election to do anything more'. The cherry growers were sensible enough to know that that was a very inadequate way of behaving. Apparently they have been effective in applying pressure upon the Government. In effect, the Government has decided to take no notice of the Tariff Board's report. That shows what people can do if they stand up for their rights. I hope that a lot of other people will take notice of the result achieved by the cherry growers in standing up for their rights and will follow their example. 
I think that only about 56 acres in Tasmania are used for cherry growing but I have 4 letters on the subject from Tasmania. That is not bad going and again illustrates what can be done when people stand up for their rights. I presume that the Government has also had letters from cherry growers. My point now is that if it were desirable to bring about the proposed change in tariffs, the resistance that it would generate would prevent the change from coming about. 
I again submit that rather than talk about simple guidelines, points of reference and classification of industries as high cost, medium cost or low cost, we have to talk in this country, in the making of tariffs, about the machinery we should use to ascertain and report on facts, and the machinery we ought to have to bring about essential changes in industry. Unless we add much more adequate machinery than the Tariff Board now represents - machinery to collect the facts - we are not justified in coming to conclusions about changes in tariffs. Unless we can develop the machinery that will give industry adequate and proper notice to bring about changes we cannot reach proper conclusions. We do not want just a statement from the Minister that people ofNfl / by tariff changes will be assured of a living wage until they can get another job and that retraining will be available for them if they need it. A country which claims to be modern must make sure that those means are available to it. I have said tonight that until we in the Opposition are satisfied that such provisions exist we will continue to vote against proposals for tariff changes. When the Opposition becomes the Government we will introduce measures necessary for the proper discharge of the responsibility of Parliament in relation to tariff making. 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Following upon changes in tariffs on manmade fibres and yarn in 1970, did the Textile Council of Australia and firms in the industry made representations to the Government. 
If so, who were these firms. 
Was a liaison committee consisting of members of the Textile Council and officers of his Department established shortly after the new tariff rates were introduced. 
If so, how many times has this committee met. 
What business has it considered. &lt;6) Has it considered any evidence or proposals related to a review of the new tariff rates. 
What decisions have been made by him, or by his Department, about any proposals this committee may have made or considered. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has it been drawn to his attention that the amount of expenditure by Japan on war or defence has been more than doubled? Is his Government in any way concerned at this dramatic increase in war spending by Japan, the only country that has ever attacked Australia? Will he state the attitude of his Government towards this matter? 
ns asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it the practice for the Minister to write personally to those who notify him of their refusal to comply with the National Service Act to inform them that it is the Government's conviction that national service is in the national interest and that this view is by all accounts shared by the majority of Australians. 
If so, on what does he base his opinion of the view of the majority of Australians. 
Does he usually explain to these persons (a) that it is open to any registrant to opt for parttime service in the Citizen Forces as an alternative to call-up for full-time service, (b) something of the provisions relating to conscientious objectors, (c) that they may complete and sign a copy of an enclosed form so that the Registrar for National Service may take the necessary action to have determined any conscientious objection they may have and (d) that, in the case of a student who has been deferred but who ceases to be a student, deferment is not terminated immediately and it would be well over a year after the person ceased to bc a student before he would be obliged to enter the Army. 
Do his letters in these cases usually extend to two foolscap pages in length. 
Is this action taken in these cases, instead of immediately taking steps to prosecute persons who appear to have clearly and wilfully broken the National Service Act, to make it appear that fewer persons refuse to comply with the Act. 
Does he intend to prosecute a person who was written to in this manner on 11th January 1971. 
ns - ] rise on a point of order. The Minister for Primary Industry is constantly interjecting. If he wants to say something surely he should ' seek the opportunity to do so by making a speech. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
NS- There is nothing whatever about it in the second reading speech. It is a matter of trust between a private concern in the electorate of the former Minister for Trade and Industry and this Government. This is all we have to take it upon at 1.5 a.m. It is a matter of trust and I would not be prepared to take S2 on trust under these circumstances let alone S4m. I think this Parliament is com ng to the very end of the process of democracy. 
I see 2 honourable members from Queensland sitting close together on the front bench looking apprehensive at the way in which democracy is moving - one smiling and the other looking serious - unaware of all the background and hoping that at some stage or other the evening will come to an end so they can go home to their warm beds confident that things will go along as they have always assumed they will. But this is not enough for me and it is not enough for the Opposition. I would like to have this Bill introduced in this House so we could have a reasonable opportunity of ascertaining whether it is fair and proper that about $4m of the Commonwealth's funds may be made available, part or all to this private concern. I know this Bill has been signed by Henry Bolte and by Willie McMahon. I would imagine,  Mr Speaker,  that if we saw their signatures there would be some rather shaky forms in the letters that make up their names because we both know them very well and we know that they would know no more about this than you or I or any other member of this House. 
When are those members on the other side of the House who take a stand for democratic and individual rights like the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid),  the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  who pretends to have some legal background, and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who has mostly background, going to really deal with matters that are of significance right here and now? 
I am very well aware of that,  Mr Speaker. 
What I am saying is that we should all have a little more opportunity through another day of sitting to make up our minds whether this Bill is proper and should be passed into law by this Parliament. I submit,  Sir, that  even you who do not involve yourself in debate or in the details of legislation must be uncertain in your own mind whether it is proper to provide by an Act of this Parliament over $4m, a substantial part of which will go to a private company. I submit you must be in some doubt It is possible, is it not, that a little later in the morning some Minister may come in here with a Bill to provide some assistance for Mineral Securities Ltd or some other company that has been in difficulties. 
NS- Even Leopold. If this happened,  Mr Speaker,  how would you as  Speaker  of this House know whether or not the Bill should be passed? I see that you agree with me substantially. I would imagine that honourable members and Ministers who have over the years pretended that they are really concerned to exercise a proper supervision over the affairs of this House would be prepared to exercise that supervision tonight. Personally, I am not and I support the action that has been taken on this side to give the Opposition and the people who have to accede to or reject this Bill a proper opportunity to decide whether it is legitimate or otherwise. The Minister said in his second reading speech that it is, but nothing that has been said - it is mostly nothing -  by honourable members on the other side of the House so far has given us any confidence that that is true, and until we have a better case to justify the provision of funds such as provided under this Bill I submit that the House must vote against the Bill. 
irns - I rise to a point of order. I suggest that time is the essence of this matter. If we had enough time I am sure we could prove that the Minister is a- 
The issue, as I see it, involves the simple courtesies that have to apply in institutions such as this. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  are for the time being operating under a charter from this Parliament not because they own the place but because they happen to be members of the Executive Council for the time being. It is their duty to see that all the verities and the courtesies with which we ought to treat one another are always observed. Then there is the question of the finance involved. Nobody can say that $4m is a small sum. In anybody's money $4m is a very large sum indeed. Then there is the question of introducing legislation at this hour of the night - any night - and proceeding as though it ought to be passed straight away. I resent it on all those grounds. I resent it because of the discourtesy between the 2 parties, the abdication of the Parliament's interest in the matter and the simple fact that none of us by any stretch of the imagination can give the matter serious consideration at this time, particularly in view of the method by which it has been introduced. All those honourable members opposite who speak with great force about law and order and what people ought to do, should accept their moral duty and make the law making process at least look as though it is proceeding in some commonsense, straightforward and useful way. 
 Mr Speaker- 
ns asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that three former Australian Air Force officers, Flying Officers Bond, Prins and Swinnerton (RAAF Reserve), were arrested by RAAF service police on 29th June 1970. 
Were these men detained in RAAF custody until a court martial was convened to try them on 21st July 1970. 
Did the court martial, after a lengthy trial, rule on 7th August 1970 that Flying Officer Swinnerton, the only one of the accused to be tried, was not subject to the court's jurisdiction as he was a member of the RAAF Reserve. 
Was the matter then referred to the convening authority and the threat of a further court martial held over the men for another 11 days until 18th August 1970 when the Department informed the press that no further proceedings were contemplated. 
Is it a fact that these men were not officially notified of the intention of the Department not to proceed against them until they received a letter dated 10th December 1970 signed by the Secretary, Department of Air. 
Did counsel for the Commonwealth appear during the course of the court martial, and present arguments that the court had no power to subpoena members of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Did the presentation of this argument apparently indicate that there is no equality before the law in military courts and that members of the Public Service and, in particular, members of the Department of Air have a special immunity. 
Did the Secretary, Department of Air, refuse to answer a subpoena and to appear before the court, and only attend when defence counsel requested that he be committed for contempt of court. 
Has the Department of Air subsequently refused to compensate these men for loss of wages incurred from the time of their arrest until the conclusion of the proceedings. 
Does the Department still insist that Flying Officer Bond is still a member of the Permanent Air Force. 
Will the Government ensure that in future former members of the Services are not subject to arbitrary arrest and detention at any time. 
Will the Minister state further action he intends to take in this matter. 
ns asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many University Squadrons are there in the Royal Australian Air Force. 
How many members are there in these squadrons. 
What qualifications are necessary to become a member of a squadron. 
How many (a) law, (b) engineering, (c) medical, (d) science and (e) arts students are there in these squadrons compared with the number of students in each of these faculties in the universities where the squadrons are established. 
How many members of these squadrons (a) were students of (i) public schools, (ii) high schools and (iii) other schools and (b) are students in university colleges. 
How many days training, including camps, bivouacs, canoe trips, etc., are required for the squadrons each year. 
How many night parades are required, and what training occurs during a night parade. 
Is a member of a squadron not required to perform national service. 
What is the position or rank of a squadron member at the end of his training. 
What is the average length of service of a member at the point of his transfer to the Air Force Reserve. 
ns asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many migrants in Victoria between 1945 and 1970 (a) applied for naturalisation, (b) were unsuccessful in their applications for naturalisation and (c) have not had their applications granted, their applications being currently deferred or pending? 
How many migrants in each category were (a) Greek born and (b) Italian born? 
ns asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Tariff Board commenced the systematic review of protection mentioned in paragraph 40 of its Annual Report for 1969-70? 
If so, how far has it proceeded? 
When is it expected that the systematic review will be completed? 
Upon what does the progress of the systematic review depend? 
I ask the 
Minister for Defence: Has it been drawn to his attention that a report has appeared in a normally authoritative publication 'Janes' indicating that an American station in Australia is being used to spy on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? I ask: Is this true? If it is true is it being done with the consent and approval of the Australian Government? If it is true would one of the consequences be, as indicated by one of the Minister's  predecessors, that in the event of nuclear war this base would be a nuclear target? Are there now available any other technical means of achieving what this station does? 
I note,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that you have ruled against my point of order. I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (Dr J. F. Cairns having submitted his objection to the ruling in writing)- 
I do not desire to detain the House for very long in speaking to this motion, but I do so having clearly heard what the Minister had to say and having had a good deal more reason to listen to it more clearly than perhaps you had yourself,  Mr Acting Speaker,  and perhaps more reason than other members of the House had to listen to it. 1 was quite clear that the Minister was deliberately saying that certain people who write in newspapers and certain members of the Opposition had raised this matter and were asking questions about it for the purpose of undermining security. To me this means a very serious charge. It means, I think, specifically that those members of the Opposition who have asked questions about this matter have been doing so to undermine the security of Australia. One well remembers when this matter was last raised in this House by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin).  It resulted in a very notable libel action being taken by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  as a result of which one of the largest and most monopolistic newspapers in Australia was required to pay very substantial damages. I should like the Minister for Defence to say this in a place where I could make him also the subject of a similar action. If he does that 1 will make him the subject of a similar action. 
But at the moment I am concerned with the procedures of this House. At the same time I am concerned about the attitude of other members of the Government to one of their colleagues who will choose to do this sort of thing. If they remain silent and if they vote with the Minister, I will assume that they agree with him about my position, because I think it is I who am involved at the moment. I will assume that they agree with him unless they either say that they do not do so or take some appropriate action. I have moved this motion because this is a matter that has direct significance under the Standing Orders. The Standing Orders are quite clear. They provide that if any member of this House desires to make any submission of this order or of this character about any other member he shall do so by means of a substantive motion that can be debated and voted upon; he shall not do it in the course of answering a question or in the course of debate about some other matter. I have not had time to look at  the.  Standing Orders in detail or to ascertain what particular standing order is involved here, and I think that those honourable members, like the former Minister - one is never sure now, when one looks across the chamber, on which bench Ministers are sitting - 
I have been away long enough to be unsure about who is the Prime Minister this week, and I am sure that if 1 had been away another week there might have been another change in the Prime Ministership. But that is not the point that is the subject of debate here.  Mr Acting Speaker,  the subject of debate here is whether your ruling should be disagreed with, and I submit that it should be because I think it is completely contrary to the facts. Firstly, it implies that the Minister for Defence did not say what he did say. Secondly, it implies that what he did say is not an offence under the Standing Orders. Both those implications are wrong. So I submit therefore that your ruling in this matter is wrong and that the House should vote that your ruling is wrong so that the matter can be put in order. For many years in this House it has been too easy for people to make direct statements, implications and insinuations of disloyalty. Working to undermine security' is a common expression that has been used. It has been far too easy for Ministers, in particular, in answering a question to say these things and to get away with them. They have been able to get away with them because too many people who have occupied your chair,  Mr Acting Speaker,  have been prepared to rule the way that you did.I say therefore that your ruling is wrong and that it should be disagreed with. 
Of course I am reflecting upon the ruling of the Chair. The whole purpose of this motion is to reflect upon the ruling of the Chair. The purpose of the motion - and it may have escaped the attention of honourable members who were interjecting - is to indicate that the Acting Speaker's ruling is wrong. Of course I am reflecting upon his ruling. 
What would he the purpose of moving the_  motion if I were not? I ask honourable members who were interjecting to give the matter a little more careful thought than their interjections indicate they are giving to it. I submit that if honourable members opposite give this matter a little more careful thought and have regard for the reputation of this Parliament, even for their own reputations, they will agree that this kind of practice should be curtailed and Ministers should not be allowed to make statements of this type contrary to the Standing Orders, which require such statements, if they are to be made, to be made in a different form. That should be the effective law of this Parliament and until rulings such as your ruling,  Mr Acting Speaker,  are disagreed with, this will not be the effective law of this Parliament. Therefore I submit that your ruling should be disagreed with. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty found, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Parliament in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action on behalf of those suffering and left without home or work through their effective expulsion as refugees from East Pakistan. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled should 
Urge that the Australian Government take steps to offer employment at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the refugees from Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Trade and Industry whether he has  noted the evidence that there is a possibility of vastly increased markets for Australia in China, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other Communist countries with which trade has been prevented in the past very largely by the narrow cold war political stance that has been taken by his Government. Will he now, as part of the reaction to the proposed British entry into the European Common Market, undertake realistic examination and discussion with these countries I have mentioned to ensure that the full possibilities of trade with them are carried into effect and that no local political considerations will be allowed to prevent this from happening? 
by leaveIn respect of most of what the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has said I find no substantial disagreement, but I do find substantial disagreement in the general approach that he takes to the subject of tariffs. The Tariff Board has been required to turn to other than permanent staff and consultants in an endeavour to solve the problems that it faces because the Government itself for a long time has been unwilling to face up to the inadequacy of staff and means available to the Board. For at least 6 or 7 years in this House I have been making the point that in reality the Tariff Board is an amateur body, that through no fault of its members or those who work for it it is totally inadequate to do the job that the Government has required it to do. 
The Government itself in recent times, as the Acting Prime Minister told us, has on several occasions called for improvement in the quality of the Board's reports. The Government has called! The Government has power to bring about the necessary machinery that would result in an improvement in the Tariff Board's reports. Surely the Government is not going to tell us that it has to call for an improvement. It is enough for we on this side of the House to have to call. It is enough for members of the public to have to call for changes, but when the Government joins in the calling I think that is asking this House and the public to accept too much. I suppose the Government will begin fasting before too long to bring about improvements in the Tariff Board, and as I see some Government supporters it would not do them any harm to fast. This problem has arisen because of the Government's unwillingness to equip the Tariff Board adequately to do its job. Why? Because it will not face up to the problems that are involved in some examination of Australian industry to find whether there should or should not be changes in the tariffs. It wants 2 bob each way. That is about the level of wager the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is laughing, would be concerned with. 
The Government wants to give the impression that it is in favour of an independent Tariff Board making an objective examination of Australian industry perhaps to reduce tariffs, yet not to reduce tariffs. It wants a system of protection because it has a very strong Country Party component that wants for primary industry the same kind of protection that is afforded to secondary industry, the same handing out of subsidies without examination by anyone other than Country Party supporters. It does not want an efficient Tariff Board - I make that point basically at the beginning and that is why we have been treated to an example of words, platitudes and ambiguities on this question for so many years. 
Looking at the Acting Prime Minister's statement in detail, there is not a great deal that I can find fault with. I do not see why it should be illegal for the Tariff Board to seel, advice, whether it be from consultants or from members of temporary staff. I do not see how the question could ever seriously have arisen. It is perfectly proper, as the Acting Prime Minister says, for the Tariff Board to have a research staff. Is it not significant that one has to make that point? And I should think the Tariff Board could have a research staff that is either permanent or consultant. 
What I have been trying to say in this House for a long time is that I want to see the Tariff Board with an adequate permanent research staff, thoroughly competent and equipped with all modern methods - computers and all the rest of it - to examine an industry to see whether it is efficient, to examine alternative means of employment, to put up propositions before it decides by experimental methods to demolish an industry and to decide what can be done with the resources that are employed in that industry. I have been saying this for 6 or 7 years. So the Tariff Board is now to be permitted, because it is legal, to have a research staff. That is very nice indeed. Certainly the improvement is needed. The Board is still in effect an amateur body and - it has to become a thoroughly competent professional body whether one calls it a board, or a commission of inquiry, or whether it is raised in status in relation to other sectors of the Public Service and private industry. I do not care what it is called as long as it has greater competence and greater ability to do its job. 
The Board has to be able to make more inquiries. It has to be able to make them more quickly and it has to be able to consider more aspects of industry. It has to be able to consider wider questions than its rather narrow technocratic assumptions allow it to consider. It has to be able to develop a better general philosophy. Today the Tariff Board is part of the technocratic system. It is part of a system that worships efficiency. Efficiency is a very good thing but it is not something to worship. Efficiency is an important test to apply to industry but it is not the only one. The present tendency everywhere is towards greater efficiency. 
We are living in a technocratic society. The appointment of the consultants who are available in the universities will only accentuate that technocratic society. I do not know an economist who is not a technocrat, including the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is on the front bench. I do not know a person who has ever gained an economics degree who has not emerged as a narrow technical, efficient person and we want something more than that. I am glad to see the Minister for Housing nodding his head and agreeing with that point.  His  agreement makes me reconsider the statement I have just made. I have heard him speak in this House time and time again as a purely technocratic person. If he is not I am very glad to know it, but speaking in this House as an economist  r  have never heard him say anything that is contrary to that. 
The philosophy we need for the Tariff Board and for the making of tariffs in this country is one that needs more than efficiency as the test, that needs more than dedication to the technocratic society. We need a philosophy that has to appreciate that the standard that as a nation we have attempted to achieve is a standard that goes beyond technical efficiency. It is a standard that goes beyond what would be established in Australia if we were freely vulnerable to economic power expressed through international trade. We have tried to raise standards in Australia that have been above those in the past; we have succeeded and we must go on, dedicated to trying to maintain those standards not only for our own good but also for the good of people in other countries. 
The modern Australia with a gross national product of over $30,000m, with nearly 13 million people, can buy vastly more from the underdeveloped world than an underdeveloped Australia would be able to buy. We do better for ourselves if we try to maintain i. standard which is above that which would be settled by free international competition. We do better for ourselves if we can do that and we do better for other countries if we can do that. So we must have a philosophy before the Tariff Board which is more than a philosophy of the most efficient industry. We must have a philosophy that will allow a place in this country for industries that are not efficient but which for other reasons should be maintained. We must have a standard which will keep some people in the country, like those in the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who are not efficient but who stay there because it is good to live in the country. We need to have people working in industries in Australia which may not be efficient because it is good for them to work in those industries in comparison to what else they might be doing if they were not working there. Efficiency is not the only test. 
We must tell the Tariff Board pretty clearly that it has to take that into account too. This has not emerged so far. I am concerned that the consultants that the Tariff Board might be turning to are not the kind of consultants that are going to give any stress to that at all. I recently received a book written from the papers of a number of economists about the effective rate of tariffs and frankly I do not understand a line of it. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports does not understand a line of it, nor do I. 
-Perhaps that is right. I certainly think we can go too far with this sort of thing. 
Not the retired ones. I consider there is nothing particularly wrong with the details of this statement. The need to turn to temporary and consultant people has come about because there are few people available who can do this, and I recognise this and admit it. I have no objection in principle to the Tariff Board turning to consultants and temporary people but I hope that the Board will turn to the right sort of temporary and consultant people, if they can be found. In regard to the post-inquiry analysis referred to by the Minister, I do not think that the post-inquiry analysis should have any semblance of secrecy. I do not think it should be different from any other aspects of the inquiry. I think it would be wrong to have a public inquiry and then to reach a postinquiry situation where something happens that appears to be in secret - and this can easily occur if we do not watch the situation. 
The Minister spoke about what he said was his third question and that is the ability of the Board to keep the confidence entrusted to it. I do not see that the appointment of consultants or temporary people ought to interfere with this confidence. I do not see why those people should not be people who could be as freely entrusted with confidence as anybody else. I do not think that some of these questions that have been raised in the dissenting report of the Board carry too much weight. 
Then there is the question of the preinquiry studies. There is the argument that if these studies are to be taken into account they should be presented at the public hearing, that they ought to be given in evidence. 1 think this depends on what kind of things the pre-inquiry aspects are. If it is simply a matter of statistics from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics I do not see why they cannot be taken into account or reference cannot be made to them. But if it is any matter of argument or controversy then I think these studies ought to go into evidence so that their role in the inquiry can be seen and they can be questioned if anyone wants to do so. 
I think one of the important things about the Tariff Board work here is to realise that the Board ought to be regarded as a part of a system of democratic government. It ought to be an organisation, as it were, in which people can participate in law making, in which people can put their argument for a higher tariff or a lower tariff, and also put their reasons. There should be nothing done to diminish that aspect. It is part of the system of government. It is not some secret or semi-secret or official or departmental organisation which owing to the conditions sets out to do certain things. It is part of the system of government in which we will get a better result if people really feel that they can participate in what is going on. I do not see why the Board should not be able to proceed further in these pre-inquiry studies but I think that care must be taken to ensure that anything which is likely to be misunderstood or misinterpreted or is in any way the subject of controversy should be completely made public. It would be very wrong if the Board in turning to these consultant and temporary people gave the impression that it was creating some private little preserve which was influencing its decisions considerably and which the people concerned did not know about or could not get access to. I think that in a sense is summing up the objections that have been made to this by the dissenting people on the Board. I would say that the people on the Board who have dissented have reason perhaps to believe that this is going to happen, and that is what worries me about the dissenting report and leads me to give weight to it beyond which, perhaps, the Minister has done. 
I do not intend to take up much more time of the House at this stage except to say that we need in the form of a tariff board or whatever one calls it a much more efficient body than we now have, a body that is capable of making many more inquiries much more quickly than now. I do not need to go into the statistics on the wide range of Australian industry that has never been investigated since the year 1. I do not need to suggest to the House how many more years it will be, given the equipment of the Board, before any more than a small proportion of that industry will be investigated by the Board. No-one knows how long this general inquiry is going to take and under the present circumstances it can never be anything more than far from complete. 
I want a philosophy in the Board which goes beyond the modern technocratic society which is choking us with pollution and is dedicated to a system of efficiency which is not going to solve most of the problems that worry people today. I think the Board has to have that kind of philosophy. I think the attitude to the making of tariff that was derived from people like Giblin and Copland, to some extent, was a much more comprehensive view than the modern economist is capable of and I hope that the Tariff Board will not fall too much under the influence of the modern economists. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the appropriate Minister: Can he tell me whether any protest was made about the French nuclear tests in the Pacific and whether any protest has been made about the American nuclear test last weekend? If no protest has been made, why has a different course been adopted in the case of the French tests from that adopted in the case of the American test? Can he tell me also whether it is believed that the American test will reveal the location of oil in the greater part of the northern Pacific, including international waters? If this is so, will the information found by the test be made available internationally or only to American oil corporations? 
ns asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice. 
Upon what items or commodities in general have there been tariff reductions in the past 12 months. 
What reduction in price, employment and capital employed has taken place in the produc tion of these commodities. 
Have any representations been received from, or on behalf of, any person or persons engaged in the production of these commodities that the reduction in tariffs has caused, or is likely to cause, any problems or difficulties. 
What are the quantities of imports of each of the commodities on which tariffs have been reduced which have entered Australia during the past12 months. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of what was stated a few moments ago by the honourable member for Chifley in a question about the general state of the economy and by the honourable member for Wentworth about the state of the motor car industry, and in view of the general uncertainty of investors throughout Australia about economic conditions, will the Prime Minister take into account each of these matters and undertake to make to the House without delay a statement on the attitude of the Government to the need of the economy for stimulation and to improve the position in certain sectors of the economy? Will he make this as a statement without delay and not as an answer to a question directed to a Minister, so that the House will have an opportunity of debating it and so that the country will know where the Government stands? 
I second the motion. I would like to put briefly to the House the reason why I second the motion. I will, of course, be limited in what I can say now as to why the motion should be accepted. The reason why it should be accepted is that the examination bythis House of the state of the economy and the Government's policy or lack of policy in relation to the economy is an urgent matter. There is no other matter so urgent in this nation at this time. The urgency of the situation arises from the remarkable coincidence of inflation and unemployment at the one time. Some governments have been able to bring about inflation, some have been responsible for unemployment, but it took this Government to be responsible for both at the same time. There is an urgency in this matter because many of our fellow citizens are suffering very badly in the current situation. Many tens of thousands of boys and girls are to leave school in the next few weeks and many tens of thousands of them will not be able to get jobs or will not be able to get the jobs for which they have been educated. Because of the absence of employment opportunities in the next few weeks the future of tens of thousands of young Australians will be materially affected. The problem of working out some action that might be taken to deal with that situation is an urgent matter. 
That,  Mr Speaker,  is one of the reasons why this motion should be accepted now. I do not need to recite the difficulties of rural industry. I do not need to remind the House that broad sectors of rural industry have no idea of their own future. The Government should be required to say whether it considers there is a satisfactory future demand for rural products to maintain rural industry at its present level or whether it will bring forward a plan to transfer farmers out of production for their own welfare. The Government has never faced this question. Facing it is an urgent matter, and this is one of the urgent reasons why this motion should be accepted now and not postponed to some time in the future. 
Another question that involves enormous urgency is the matter of the inflow of overseas foreign funds. Figures for the September quarter show an inflow of about $400m, as against $1 40m for the same period last year. Nobody knows whether this is hot money, cold money or some other sort of money, but what we can be sure about is that if this flow continues at that rate for long, Australia will be foreign owned. It is an urgent matter to decide whether this is so and what should be done about it. This is a buyer's market and it seems to me that it suits the multi-national corporations that are responsible for this inflow of foreign money to have a buyer's market so that they can get a firm grip on the crucial elements in the Australian economy that they do not own already. With shares in Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd at a little over $9 a share, this is a buyer's market. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS- The honourable member who is interjecting may find that the few shares he owns are in a company which, before very long, will be owned overseas. It is urgent that this Government face the question of whether it wants Australia to be sold out at this rate to foreign buyers. 
It has been said often in the last few weeks that only the Government can begin a recovery; that only the Government can give the economy the stimulus that is needed to put it back at a firm rate of development. It is the Government's responsibility to say whether it can do so. But what is the Government's attitude? No-one knows. The Prime Minister was asked several times last week during question time, sometimes by - I will not say his supporters - members on his own side of the House- 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  1 see you do not dispute that. 
1 do not mean the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth);  I mean  Mr Les  Bury, who was the Treasurer until you cut his head off. If he still supports you, he has no feelings at all, which I sometimes suspect. 
 I say that questions were asked even from the right honourable gentleman's own side which he carefully evaded or avoided. So the economy as a whole is no better placed than is this House; it has no better idea where the Government stands; it has ho better idea whether the Government considers it faces inflation or unemployment. The economy has no idea of whether the Government intends to follow out a restrictive policy or a stimulating policy. No indication has been given, but indications have been asked for from all over the country. Perhaps it is already too late for the Government to be able to do anything about this. Perhaps we will go into 1972 with a continuing downward trend in the economy. Perhaps even if the Government acted now it could not bring about a recovery. 
I submit to the House that there is a degree of urgency about the situation that does not allow the Government to postpone this want of confidence motion for one more hour. Of course, under the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies and the Right Honourable Harold Holt and even possibly in the short interregnum of the Right Honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - none of us got to know him very well, but quite possibly even under him - the traditions of this House would not have allowed a no confidence motion to be pushed aside. Whenever a no confidence motion was moved in this House when the Government was led by those gentlemen they had the guts to debate it immediately. They did not want it put off until some later day so that they could go out and consult with their friends and make up their case and devise their alibis. But not this Government; this Government is a government of -alibis. This Government- 
The Minister responsible for stamps interjects. 
I finish what 1 have to say in seconding the motion upon this point: No government that has a proper sense of what should be done in this House can for one minute push aside a no confidence motion. No government that has a proper sense of responsibility can leave a no confidence motion hanging over its head. That is why I have seconded the motion moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, which states: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Melbourne Ports moving forthwith the motton of want of confidence of which he has given notice for the next day of sitting and such motion taking precedence of all other business until disposed of. 
So that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the Government and its supporters may have an adequate idea of what is the Australian Labor Party's economic policy and what it would do to remedy the present situation, I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard an extract from the Platform, Constitution and Rules of the Labor Party. 
It will occupy about a column and a half of Hansard. 
V: ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Institute indicative planning and programmed budgeting for economic growth and social justice by the Commonwealth, in co-operation with the States, local authorities and organisations of employees and employers; this planning to be consistent with the maintenance of full employment and the conservation of natural resources. 
Balance the functions and finances of the Commonwealth, States, regional and local authorities to ensure that resources are adequately developed and services adequately provided. 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of antisocial private monopoly. 
Identify, publicise and otherwise expose unfair prices or practices and the exploitation of consumers and in conjunction with the States to operate Australia wide price control. This policy to be supplemented by the use of power of government to purchase goods and place orders. 
Legislate against monopolies and strengthen existing trade practices legislation. 
Assist small primary producers, retailers and others to adjust to changing economic conditions by expanding Agricultural Extension Services, by using Rural Reconstruction Boards, by establishing a Small Business Administration and by instituting programmes to retrain and resettle small producers and retailers. 
Regulate hire purchase, fringe banking and other credit-creating institutions, in order to control effective demand. 
Use selective interest rates, particularly in areas such as housing. 
Sever the Postmaster-General's Department from Public Service Board control. 
Establish clearer guidelines for overseas investors, for the benefit both of these investors and of the Australian community. Overseas investment in Australia to be encouraged only where it introduces new technology and expertise, includes plans for Australian participation in the enterprise, and/or otherwise shows itself to be in Australia's national interest. 11. (a) Reserve income tax exclusively to the 
Commonwealth Parliament, 
Review the Australian taxation system, especially in order to 
reduce taxation on lower and middle incomes; 
adjust the system of deductions to avoid inequities; 
prevent avoidance of taxation by formation of companies, trusts, partnerships, or in any other manner; 
re-define 'income' for taxation purposes so that a fair share of taxation will be paid by those who benefit from the accumulation of assets; 
tax company income at graduated rates; 
redress the incidence of indirect taxes on essential goods. 
Protect Australian industries, where necessary, by tariffs, import controls, and/or subsidies in order to safeguard Australian living standards and to develop Australian resources. The use and level of, and choice between, means of protection to be determined after examination and report by an independent, fully equipped, government authority which will consider, among other things, efficiency, growth prospects, trade practices and pricing policies. 
Today Australia faces not only inflation but also unemployment and it is unemployment and not inflation that is likely to get worse. As the Treasurer told us, the Government still assumes that inflation is the only problem and that there is no problem of unemployment. The Government takes this position because it needs inflation for its election policy. It believes that it needs to be able to attack wages and to attack the trade unions if it is to have any hope of winning the next election. Its whole economic policy is geared to that proposition. As the Treasurer has just shown us, the Government is not here for the purpose of analysing the economy to arrive at a policy which will be in the best interests of the Australian nation; it is here to use the economy for political purposes. Anyone who knows where the Government is going knows precisely what it is doing. During the course of the next few months it intends to conduct propaganda against wages and against the trade unions in the hope that it can get re-elected with a policy of that kind. However, it is not inflation but recession and unemployment that must be dealt with now. We are in a man-made recession and the men who have made that recession are members of the McMahon Government. 
It is not difficult to deal with an economy that is depressed and faces rising unemployment. The Australian economy today is depressed and it does face rising unemployment, but it is not difficult to deal with those problems if there is in office a government that is willing and determined to do so. Many things are needed today, but measures that are general and appear to apply equally to everybody are unjustified and unfair. Most of those who recommend action to deal with unemployment or inflation seem to assume that everybody in the country is in the same position, but everybody in the country is not in the same position. 
I shall outline to the House and to the people the kind of policy the Labor Party would put into operation if it were in office at the present time. There should be no doubt whatever that, at present, sickness and unemployment benefits should bc increased substantially. No Australian should be required to live, even for a short period of time, on the miserable pittance that is paid out today and has been paid out for years in the form of unemployment and sickness benefits. There should bc no doubt whatever that agc and invalid pensions should be increased now. There should be no doubt whatever that assistance to lower income families, especially to their children, should be increased now. There should be no doubt whatever that interest on borrowing for homes should be reduced now so that people who need homes can get them under more favourable circumstances than exist today and so that tha allocation of building resources will be moved a little more from the elaborate over-supplied buildings in the urban and city areas to provide homes for the people. There should be no doubt that interest on hire purchase for lower income families should be reduced now. There should be no doubt that taxation on lower incomes should be reduced now. There should be no doubt that the nation needs a supplementary budget now to do at least these things. No Parliament has the right to have confidence in a government that can sit idly by as this one has done and refuse to introduce in the form of a budget supplementary measures which are so widely recognised as being necessary. 
The problem of unemployment must be dealt with. Unemployment is dealt with first by quickly finding out where unemployment is. Especially, it is in the rural areas. Over 40 per cent of unemployment among a far smaller percentage of the Australian people is in rural areas. If there are not plans already in existence for the provision of work in those areas, they should be immediately worked out and financed directly by the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth in co-operation with the States and local governments. There is no area in Australia where urgent work is not waiting for money to enable it to be done. In present circumstances, that urgent work should not be kept waiting for another hour; it should be done now. Confidence cannot be held in a government which has allowed unemployment to increase in the country, which is prepared to see ghost towns develop where people previously lived, and which is prepared to see people drifting ofl' into the cities where already there are too many people. However, the Treasurer has just told us that there is no cause to take alarm - everything is near enough to perfect and there is no problem in the provision of money now. 
Much of the unemployment problem results from cutbacks in primary industry and from pessimism in the country. Much of the unemployment in the cities is in industries affected by these cutbacks and by this pessimism in the country. Industries supplying seasonal rural needs require long term loans and, to help them with seasonal fluctuations, they need the exports that are available, if the exports can be insured adequately and sold on long term finance. The Government has recognised the need for this for years but has done nothing substantial to assist these industries. A Labor government in office would ensure that industries that rely upon seasonal changes in Australia will have sufficient finance to carry them over those seasonal fluctuations. Labor in office will ensure that industries that are in a position to export from Australia will have established for them the necessary shipping, credits and insurance that will allow them to do so. These conditions have not been established yet although there has been recognition for years of their urgency. 
Another example of what needs to be done concerns the hundreds of millions of dollars of foreign money which is flowing into Australia for speculation. Much of it is aimed at taking over Australian industry. I say that the figures which were recently quoted by the Treasurer gave no real information about what that money is doing. The take-over of Australian industry is taking place and the Government is still unconcerned about this, although some Government supporters, like the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  have recognised the need to control this inflow of capital. Every Australian recognises the need for this, but months and years pass and this Government, which is committed to those people who are bringing in the money in one way and another, will do nothing to bring about some kind of control. A Labor government in office will not rely On capital inflow. 
It will be our responsibility to put trade back on to the map for Australia. The closing of markets relatively in the European Economic Community need not be  a  tragedy for this country. We need not cry tears like the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  does and we need not be ineffective. There are markets open in the world today for Australia that can revolutionise trade in the next decade ot decade and a half. However, I submit to this House that this Government is not able to trade with countries like China. If we sell just a few dollars worth of commodities per head to the Chinese people in a year, we can double our hade overseas in that time. But the Government of China is not willing to trade with a government of the political complexion of this Government which has a bias on political questions. There is no need for pessimism about rural industry in Australia. It has a future, but only if there is a government in office that t is capable of leading this country into the new market* of he world which will become available dramatically in the next decade or so. 
Yet another thing I think has to be revealed. The Treasurer has been talking much about wage restraints and inflation, but official figures of the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation show that in relation to these things people in this country are in a very dissimilar position. Those figures show that about 50 per cent of Australian taxpayers have an income of less than $50 a week and that 90 per cent of them have an income of less than S80 a week. Those figures show that in 1968-69 over 70 per cent of the people of this country had an income of less than the average wage. When we talk about inflation and wage restraints we should realise these things. 
The difficulties can be further revealed when we look at national figures for personal consumption. Between 1965-66 on the one hand and 1970-71 on the other hand personal consumption expenditure as a percentage of gross national expenditure fell almost every year. From 59.7 per cent in 1965-66 it had become 57.4 per cent in 1970-71. It comes as a shock to most people to realise that there has been such a significant fall in personal consumption expenditure as a percentage of total expenditure in recent years. What kind of a country is it that is said to bc so rich but in which personal consumption fell so dramatically against other forms of expenditure? Further examination of personal consumption expenditure reveals why it is falling. Figures show that expenditure on food was 22.6 per cent of total personal consumption expenditure in  1965-66  but it had fallen to 20.1 per cent in 1970-71. Who in 1970-71 went without the food they had in 1965-66, and why was this? It was not necessary except as a result of what has been happening in the economy. 
Those people who cut their expenditure on food and other essentials had to do so because they were endeavouring to maintain what was even more essential. We know what they had to do with their money when we realise that the percentage of consumption expenditure that was needed to pay rent and other costs of housing rose from 11.6 per cent in 1965- 66 to 13.2 per cent in 1970-71. The cost of housing went up all the time and people were forced to pay more and more of their earnings in this direction. The Treasurer has recently skated over this and has said that we have nothing to worry about in the housing situation, In 1969, before the credit squeeze came, 38,000 home units were being turned out each year. This year in the September quarter the figure will be 36,000, despite the fact that 300,000 migrants have come into the country and there have been 212,000 marriages in the meantime. 
It is ridiculous and unfair to talk about wage restraint and the contribution of wage earners to inflation when we realise that this has been going on in the economy. The 90 per cent of people who receive less than $80 a week know this all too well. They know they have no power to cause inflation or anything else. They know that their wage increases, when they have come, have come slowly after a great deal of delay, bureaucratic fiddling and legal arguments. They know that their wage increases are never higher than is necessary to maintain their normal living standards. They know they have to give up some of those essentials if they are to maintain the things that are even more essential. They know their standard of living would actually fall if wage increases did not come. They know also that prices have increased before they get their wage increase. They know that in many cases they have to prove that price increases take place before they can get a wage increase. They know from their actual experience that that which causes price increases is not in their hands but in somebody else's hands, and they know that it is from prices that inflation comes. 
When inflation is taking place, of course, wages increase. They have to increase or the standard of living of the people would drastically fall, before long industry would not be able to sell its products at satisfactory profit, and there would be a recession or depression because of insufficient demand. But when there is inflation and wages increase, other incomes increase quite rapidly and prices increase too. The incomes of investors, financiers and speculators increase by far more than wage increase. The originating causes of inflation lie not in wage increases but with those who have independent power to increase prices or to get their hands on enough money to be able to originate new expenditure. To do this they must have power to acquire or create new money. They have this power when they are in control of large monopolistic corporations which can take from the consumer for the sale of its products enough to spend in new investment, in take-overs and in many other ways. The time has now come when the greater part of total private investment comes from these directions. 
When we turn to recession, we see that the causes of it lie clearly with those who hold economic power. Recessions are man made. Inflation is caused by those who control corporations, banks and by the Government. Recession is caused by the same people. The way inflation has come into existence in Australia can be seen by what has happened to expenditure. All recorded forms of expenditure have increased but persona] consumption expenditure has fallen as a proportion of total expenditure. But what has risen? Expenditure by financial corporations rose from 13 per cent of the total in 1965-66 to 14.9 per cent in 1970-71. Expenditure on private capital investment increased too. These statistics show that financial enterprises and private investors filled themselves out to an ever-increasing share of total expenditure during these inflationary years. At the same time the stock market was booming. Shares such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shares rose to $25 each and millions of dollars flowed into the mineral boom. Government supporters talk about what caused inflation and mention only wages and trade unions. They never talk about speculation and stock exchange activities. There was no talk about stock exchange control or any other sort of control during the mining boom, but that was where inflation in this country originated and that is where the causes of it lie. Can anyone doubt where inflation began, who began it and who carried it on until in some respect it was no longer profitable? 
Inflation begins with the people who have money and who have economic power, and until this is recognised by the Government nothing of any effect can be done about controlling inflation. Inflation is the result of the exercise of economic power and the people who are responsible for it are responsible in the proportion to which they do have economic power. The average wage earner knows that he can do nothing to cause inflation. He is the victim of it. Inflation is the result of the spending of millions of dollars, and no person can cause or carry on inflation unless he is among those who control millions of dollars. It is quite false to talk about controlling inflation by stopping wage increases and by dealing with trade unions. Properly inflation can be dealt with by preventing 't from happening in the first place. To talk about dealing with inflation by an incomes and prices policy after it has got under way is humbug, and it is only after inflation is well under way that we have people on the other side of the House becoming interested in incomes and prices policy. To stop inflation from happening those who hold economic power must be required to fit within a national plan for priority development without inflation. 
That is why I say that the policy of the Labor Party as outlined and which I sought leave to have included in Hansard in the first place is a policy which is necessary to deal with inflation and prevent recession in this country. Until we have a government in office that is prepared to put into operation the plan similar to that which is now detailed in those columns of Hansard we will have no way of preventing the fluctuations that have destroyed so many of our chances and opportunities in the last 20 years for great and stable economic development equitably and fairly for the people. Until a policy of that kind is adopted no-one can have confidence in a government in this nation, and because of the absence of that kind of policy the motion moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  that this Government lacks the confidence of the House, is a motion that everyone in the House should support. Until the people get the opportunity to express their dissatisfaction with the economic policies and bankruptcy of this Government in the last 4 or 5 years we will never have a satisfactory government in this nation. 
This Bill seeks to make some minor changes in the way in which the Tariff Board will be doing its work. I make no apology to the House for taking up some of its time at such a late hour, particularly as 1 have taken only 70 minutes of its time in the last 5 weeks, because this is a very serious matter and the amendments to the way in which the Tariff Board is functioning should be very much more considerable than this Bill proposes. Indeed we should before the end of this session examine the whole work of tariff making. I sought to ask a question of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  at question time the other day which would have focussed this point. I intend this evening to go in for a fairly thorough review of the question and to submit the general outlines of policy of the Opposition. I expect that the Minister will, if not tonight, at a very early opportunity make a reply on behalf of the Government to my comment. 
Tariff making in Australia did not begin with the formation of the Tariff Board. Australia had become protectionist by 1908, although Victoria had been so long before and the principles of tariff making for Australia had been in fact laid down in the Interstate Commerce Act of 1914. These were protectionist principles and left no doubt that Australian industry would come first and positive action would be taken for its development. It was not until the famous Scullin tariff of 1930 that any opposing tendencies emerged. Protection by tariffs was then to be given only to industries in Australia up to the point that would allow producers in the United Kingdom ample opportunity to export to Australia. The 1932 principles did not put Australian industry first. They were set out in the interests of industry in the United Kingdom. That is what one would have expected from the times. Australia was in pawn to the United Kingdom and went cap in hand to the British bankers, and the Australian business establishment was ready to do whatever it was told. Although the Scullin tariff is often believed to be the foundation of Australian secondary industry it was only so because the Government acted independently of many of LF.ese pressures and kept the tariffs up. But in the main Australia's recovery from the depression and development of secondary industry, at quite a slow and unimpressive rate in the 1930s, was not a government induced one. and it did not anticipate Keynes in any way. It was purely free enterprise, influenced by conservative minds in business and the universities. The Tariff Board did not have much to do with what happened. Furthermore, in later years there can be no doubt that World War II import controls had far more influence on industrial development in Australia than anything that happened in the 1930s or anything that tariffs had done. The Tariff Board was an amateur body, if anything, with a free trade bent, and it was only the need of secondary industry for protection that maintained effective tariffs at all. 
The influence of import licensing went on through the post-war years and these controls, and not the tariff, determined the level of imports as well as much of their composition. The removal of import licensing in 1960 led to a flood of imports and an economic crisis which almost dislodged the Government. Now the Government was forced to do something about what it was that would replace import controls. The answer was to ask a committee of experts to deal with the problems, the Committee of Economic Enquiry, the Vernon Committee. Tariff policy, of course, was included in the Committee's area of enquiry. Despite the secondary role of the Tariff Board during all these years we can say that throughout this time industry and the trade unions were left in no doubt that any industry that was efficient, even if not economic, on Australian standards could expect effective tariff protection. But the report of the Vernon Committee was to be the first factor leading towards a change. Whilst the Committee warned that it had not made an exhaustive examination of tariff matters there could be no doubt that the substance of its message was that tariffs were too high and complicated. There are many statements in the Committee's report, which I will not detail, to show that this was the case. 
The Committee went much further in some other directions. It considered that a request about price policy would not be unreasonable when high protection is given. There was a warning for care about industries usually marked by rapid technological advance for which the market may not be large enough. The Committee thought that there was scope in the case of high protection for price undertakings for a 3 or 5 year period, to allow large undertakings of this kind to become consolidated. In its summing up the Committee must have disappointed the free traders a little. The tariff, it said, had played an important part in creating the climate for investment in economic and efficient industries. Whilst it cannot be demonstrated that both total income and incomes per head were higher than they might have been under some alternative system, however, under some alternative system some substitute for the tariff would have been necessary to ensure an industrial structure which, although different in pattern, would have sustained the population increase that occurred and provided both full employment and external economic balance. The Committee then turned away from the concept of a uniform tariff and stressed that the Tariff Board needed a statement from the Government of national objectives and a clear acceptance of the Board as an independent adviser. The Board itself should examine many more industries and should look more closely for evidence; references should require it to examine entire industries and feel free to recommend structural adjustments to be undertaken when an industry has ceased to be,  or shows no promise of becoming, economic and efficient. 
But in September 1965, the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, gave the Vernon Committee's report a very cool reception. Among other things  Sir Robert  Menzies said the Government had the firmest intention of preserving the full independence of the Tariff Board but he stressed that the Board was an advisory body and that tariff policy as such was the responsibility of the Government, that only Parliament can enact tariffs and that only the Government proposes tariff legislation to Parliament. It was at this point that the Tariff Board began to show its hand and it first looked like a strong hand. 
The Annual Report of the Tariff Board for1966-67 showed a Board that was preparing for a change towards lower tariffs. The Board reported that there'has never been an examination ofthe Tariff as a whole ... as a result large sections of the Tariff which may involve substantial over-protection have not been examined for many years.' The Board now proposed a 'progressive and systematic review of the Tariff consisting of an internal examination by the Board of the structure and levels of protection in the Tariff, together with public inquiries into the main areas of production where there has been no recent public inquiry and where the levels of protection are in the medium to high range.' No matter how much this was needed the Board could do little to put into effect any progressive and systematic review because of the shortage of staff and the shortage of other means, and it was to remain so. 
The Board proposed 'an initial classification' of industries into high level protection, medium level protection and low level protection in relation to the overall structure of assistance under which Australian import competing industries operate. The Board was to aim at duties which would 'contain industries in the high cost area other than those demonstrating clearly compensating external benefits and those which can show beyond reasonable doubt prospects of operating with substantially lower levels of protection within a reasonable time.' 
In its report for 1967-68 the Board laid down that high, medium and low rates respectively were effective rates exceeding 50 per cent, 25 per cent but not exceeding 50 per cent, and 25 per cent or less. Effec tive rates of protection are stated by the relation ofthe tariff to that portion of the product that is actually protected. For example, if unprotected raw materials are left out and if, say,thetariffwas50per cent and half the product's cost was that of raw materials, the effective rate would be 100 per cent. Effective rates always are higher than the normal rates. 
No, not always higher but generally speaking that is the effect of the effective tariff concept. The Board indicated its intention of making its initial inquiry review in the areas of protection 'in which a large part of the output is protected at nominal rates over 50 per cent and most of the products concerned have not been a subject of Tariff Board inquiry in recent years.' The Board would explore this area and would not recommend protection for industries found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate below 50 per cent. That is clearly set out at page 5 of the1967-68 report. In the case of indus tries requiring an effective rate exceeding 25 percent but not exceeding 50 per cent the Board would be influenced by the likely effects on other industries and their prospects for more competitive production. 
By the time the 1969-70 report was made the Board had gone a little further. This was perhaps the most informed report the Board had made up to date, although much of its statistical material had been readily available in other sources for many years. The Board had decided by now that the average rate of protection in Australia was 46 per cent and the range was from zero to 120 per cent. This average rate of effective protection is said to be equivalent to about$2,700m a year. There has been a great deal of misunderstanding of this figure of$2,700m and a great deal of misuse of it. In an endeavour to clarify the positionI seek leave to incorporate in Hansard about one column of the 1969-70 report so that honourable members and other people may read it for themselves. 
ns asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Acting Prime Minister receive a telegram on 11th November 1971 requesting the Government to take action immediately to see that Australian aid for refugees in India from East Pakistan is continuous and closely related to need. 
Wasthe Acting Prime Minister also requested to see that the needs of the refugees be studied and reported on so that a complete and adequate programme for continuous aid for the refugees couid be submitted to Cabinet on his return to Australia thus enabling the programme to be put into effect immediately. 
What action has been taken since 11th November and with what result. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. Its purpose is to give effect to Customs Tariff proposals that have already had effect. This Bill allows them to continue in effect until such time as a Bill to give effect to these proposals is introduced next year. The proposals, as the Bill indicates in clause 3, were submitted to the House on 17th August 1971, 23rd August 1971, 7th September 1971, 16th September 1971, 30th September 1971 and 10th November 1971. The House will have an opportunity next year, if it so desires, to debate the Bill in detail. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It seems to me that in this matter the House has a choice to make which is one that has been delayed unduly long. Whether it considers that the report in the 'Daily Telegraph' of what happened on the night in question - that certain members of the Opposition had deliberately left the chamber after the quorum bells had rung - is serious enough to be satisfied by the motion before the House, which is merely that the House notes this and relies upon its dignity; or whether, if this was a false report, the 'Daily Telegraph' should be required to publish an apology. It seems to me that the amendment is approporiate. 
If the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  was correct and this was simply an accident or simply a mistake by  Mr 
Reid - an isolated incident, one alone, which had never happened before - then, to my mind, his argument would be supportable. But, of course, this is not an isolated incident. It is not just one incident alone. It is not just a mistake. Even if the journalist concerned,  Mr Reid,  were willing to rely upon a person like the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  alone, I think he would be vulnerable to pretty serious criticism because, if a journalist with a by-line that goes all over Australia is the kind of man who conducts his work by relying on people like the honourable member for Mitchell and sees fit to check with nobody else, then he is seriously at fault. That is not the way we want journalists in this building to report the proceedings of this House. If he has no better authority than the honourable member for Mitchell, who runs to him and others with stories deliberately calculated to harm the Labor Party on every opportunity he gets, then the journalist concerned is not being fair; he is being biased and he is seeking to do as much damage as he possibly can to one side of the House. But, of course, this is not an isolated incident. 
Of course that is his job. If he did not do his job like that, he would not keep it. But this is not an isolated incident. A little while ago the honourable member for Prospect quoted in the House 4 other mistakes this week. 
In one day. The mistake concerning the salary does not matter. But the mistake about marihuana does matter. What is the purpose of that report? It is to suggest to the credulous reader of the 'Daily Telegraph' that the Australian Labor Party is tied up in the marihuana racket and that it wants permissiveness in the taking of drugs. That is the purpose of the report. Is not there malice in that? Of course there is malice in the attitude of the 'Daily Telegraph'. The Daily Telegraph' has libelled at least 3 or 4 members on this side of the House. The courts of not only the States but also the Commonwealth have found this. In  Mr Uren's  case the court said the libel was malicious enough to run into a very high 5-figure award for damages. I was libelled by the 'Daily Telegraph'.  Sir frank  Packer chose to settle that case with  a  payment that ran into  5  figures rather than see the case taken into court. He knew there was enough malice in what he had done, together with his own costs, for an award for damages running into  5  figures to be granted if it were taken into court. Do not tell me that there is no malice in what the 'Daily Telegraph' reports about this Parliament. 
Therefore. I think that if this incident is taken, for political reasons, as an isolated incident, a mistake or reliance upon an unreliable witness, what the Leader of the House proposes would be an appropriate remedy. But if it is seen in the context of a carefully arranged plan with malice aforethought to damage as much as possible and continuously one side of this House and unduly praise and improperly report activities on the other side of the House, it becomes a different matter. If it was left alone to  Mr Reid,  the matter would not be so serious. One might be able to explain it away in  Mr Reid's  terms. But this cannot be done when it is realised that the matter also involves  Mr McNicoll  and  Sir Frank  Packer. If  Sir Frank  Packer was not involved the Leader of the House would not have come in here with a watered down version of the Committee's report. The Leader of the House would have come in here supporting the Committee's report. I say that  Sir Frank  Packer's influence in this House has gone much too far. If there were no better reason to support a requirement that the 'Daily Telegraph' should apologise, that would be very good reason to do it. It is about time we decided to stop a little  Sir Frank  Packer's influence in this House. 
Some people believe he has selected the Prime Minister for us. Some people believe he has a continuous and improper influence upon the Government. Some people believe he has a continuous and improper influence upon Ministers and members of the Government parties. We do. not face a simple isolated matter about a report of some members of the House who left it after the quorum bells rang. We. face a conspiracy. It is ,a conspiracy to damage and endanger. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  from the academic circles and the ivory towers of the University of Melbourne comes in here with his innocence and laughs. The honourable member will find, when he grows a little more hair on his face and gains a little more political experience, that he is not living the same kind of life now as the one he was brought up in. He will find that this place is a little harder and a little tougher than he imagined it to be when he studied it academically before arriving here. If it has not happened already, he will be brought before the finger of  Sir Frank  Packer or some similar newspaper magnate in the future. I would leave the decision he has to make about that to him. 
This House has to decide whether it will accept the kind of biased and prejudiced reporting that the 'Daily Telegraph' has adopted constantly about affairs in this House in at least the 16 years that I have been here. No, this is a much more serious matter than an isolated instance that might have been based on a mistake or on a leak by an unreliable witness; it is something much more considerable than that. Further, the penalty suggested by the Privileges Committee is not a serious penalty. The Committee merely said to these people: Because you have misreported something about the activities of this House we ask you to apologise for that misreporting. I would have thought that anyone with any sense of manners or propriety would have been prepared to go that far under any circumstances. But why will not the Government go that far? The answer is, because it is the 'Daily Telegraph' that is involved. 
I do not intend to spend any time examining the procedures of the Privileges Committee. I believe that is irrelevant to the matter. I think the Privileges Committee unanimously came to the decision that there was what it called a contempt in this article, that is to say, there was a misreporting. The only difference of opinion amongst members of the Committee is about what should be done, and that is the only difference of opinion amongst honourable members in this House tonight. I think it is perfectly reasonable to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  that we ask these people who have misreported the House, with . at least some element of malice, to apologise for doing so. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does he ever contrast the method and practice of the Government, when workers make an application for a wage increase, of briefing senior counsel to go into court to try to disprove the evidence they give in their application and of resisting publicly and privately in every way what the workers and salary earners try to do in order to get an increased wage or salary with the method of having a private discussion in his office with representatives of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd when they propose to increase the cost of steel by over $50m, and making no protest or taking action effectively- 
There is no need for anybody on this side of the House to try to divide the people on the other side. We have seen a record of division over there in the last 2 years that has never been equalled before in the history of this Parliament. Half of the other side of the House consists of back benchers who were former Ministers and half consists of back benchers who are now Ministers. One never knows who are the Ministers in this Parliament or who will be the Ministers next week. We need not do anything to divide the Government. It is rapidly dividing itself. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  began his speech by alleging distortion against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He gave no proof whatever and he was left with the allegations. 
The Treasurer is now trying to tell us that  Mr McNeill  did not tell him on 26th January that there was to be a price increase in steel. Is he trying to tell us that, or is it not obvious that  Mr McNeill  told him that there was to be a price increase and he did a little to show that the Government might be embarrassed if there was an increase? Is he trying to distort that? Of course he was told on 26th January, and of course the Leader of the Opposition was right in saying that the Treasurer had known for 3 weeks. If he did not tell the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  about it before he went to the Premiers Conference, that makes it even worse. He accuses the Leader of the Opposition of distortion by saying that the Prime Minister did not inform the Premiers. He admits here now that the Prime Minister did not inform the Premiers. Is he telling us that he did not tell the Prime Minister about the coming increase in the price of steel before he went to the Premiers Conference? Every step he takes to try to explain this shambles in the conduct of policy over the past  2  or  3  weeks makes it worse and worse. 
Of course we are dealing here not only with the shambles that the Government has created in its attitude to the big corporations that dominate and rule this country; we are concerned with a very important question of national policy. Inflation is now the most serious problem in Australia. Inflation eats away all fixed and relatively fixed incomes by its constant increase of living costs. Unemployment is an evil without parallel, but inflation is the main cause of unemployment and unemployment cannot be prevented unless inflation is prevented. Inflation continuously weakens a country's position in the outside world. It makes a country mendicant and dependent. Inflation is the most divisive and conflict-producing factor in industrial relations. 
The McMahon Government has. convicted itself of the most unbalanced and biased policy ever practised since World War II. It recognises the seriousness of inflation. It knows of the fantastic profits of a company like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd - an increase from $42m to $68m in  4  years, over 60 per cent in  4  years. Whose wages and salaries have increased at that rate? This represents an earning rate on ordinary capital of  24  per cent - the equivalent of a gilt edged investment giving  4  times the gilt edged return. Who gets money at that rate but BHP and the other big corporations? The McMahon Government has not proved its thesis that it is wage increases that cause inflation. The Leader of the Opposition showed that  4  years ago 68 per cent of the national income was wages and salaries and that they have now fallen to 62 per cent. Inflation has been caused by the increase at the other end of the income scale. It has been caused by the people who have power to determine their own incomes. Yet the McMahon Government offers no objection whatever to a  5.3  per cent increase in steel prices at the same time as it uses all its powers to keep wages and salaries frozen and attacks and vilifies trade union leaders and the unions themselves. It sows dissent and division in the community; it favours the rich and suppresses the poor and the average citizen. 
Inflation cannot be dealt with or any level of social justice established unless the big corporations are made subject to effective control. Price control is essential. Unions can sometimes win wage increases and that may have the effect of increasing prices, but they cannot do so without control and restraint. They have to prove their case to an arbitration authority or to powerful employers, but the big corporations are free to do what they like whenever they like. As long as the big corporations are free to get in for their cut in hundreds of millions whenever they choose to do so, without any real Government objection or restraint, no government can expect any restraint from wage and salary earners or from any union. If inflation is ever to be dealt with there must be a balanced and equitable policy in the nation. To establish such a policy the national Government must be aware of the power and responsibility of the giant corporations. The national Government must subject the big corporations to full scrutiny and establish the means to bring them under effective control. Wage control without price control is contrary to common sense, a distortion of justice and an inevitable cause of conflict and a deep sense of grievance. Such a policy will inevitably fail, as it has continuously failed over the last 20 years. How long does it take us to learn? 
An Australian Labor Party government will end this irresponsibility, distortion and injustice. It will bring an end to national policies which have built-in forces which condemn them to failure. An Australian Labor Party government will bring the big corporations under effective scrutiny and will not permit price increases unless they are- proved to be justifiable and unavoidable. Does the national Government in Australia have power to do this? It cannot ever be a national government unless it has this power. The McMahon Government and its predecessors have always been pleased to say that the Australian Government has no such powers. This is not because the power is not there; it is because the Government has no desire or intention to use it. Hence the easiest course is to lead people to believe that there are no powers. But there is in fact ample power. 
There is now a strong probability that there is full and adequate power, even in the Constitution itself. In the concrete pipes case the High Court of Australia recently appears to have reversed and invalidated the doctrine established in 1909 in the Huddart Parker case which has prevented the national Government from exercising this kind of power. It is the first responsibility of the national Parliament fully to test and apply these powers. We challenge the present Government to do so. A Labor Party government will do this. We will not allow government of this nation to go by default as honourable members opposite have done. But even if this constitutional power was not there, the national Government has full and adequate powers of other kinds. Even the present Treasurer himself, when Minister for Labour and National Service, pointed to where these powers were. On 8th October 1970 he said: 
I have also argued that there are means availablethe Trades Practices Act, the Tariff Board, moral suasion- 
Imagine this Government talking about anything moral -  to sharpen competitive pressures in our economy. 
No corporations in Australia, however big they are, can operate without government assistance. This vital assistance takes the form of tariffs, research and export assistance, subsidies, investment allowances and so on. But the McMahon Government merely hands out all this assistance to the big corporations and expects nothing whatever from them in return. They are given all this assistance and asked to do nothing. We have gone far enough down this street. No Labor government will accept this position. A Labor government, for instance, will grant tariff protection only if it is satisfied that the price charged is proved by facts to be fair and reasonable. The Tariff Board or some similar body will be required to satisfy itself about this vital matter before it recommends any protection to this national Parliament, and it is the responsibility of this Parliament to see that the Tariff Board does so. The Commonwealth arbitration authority has the responsibility to establish that industry can afford a wage increase before it makes an award granting one. Once it has done that the arbitration authority has the responsibility, and it must have the power, to ensure that industry does not make a farce of its award by immediately passing on into prices he wage increase which it has already found industry to be able ro afford. The Commonwealth arbitration authority must pay attention to prices as well as to wages if its objective of preventing industrial disputes is to be more than a pretence. 
In conclusion, inflation is a great economic and social problem. It must be dealt with. The national Government alone in Australia can deal with it. It has power to do so. An Australian Labor Party government will never permit inflation or unemployment to become established in Australia. We have the power to prevent these things. We will use that power. It is time that economic and social balance was established in this country. For 20 years the pendulum has swung the wrong way. An Australian Labor Party government can establish economic and social balance in Australia as Labor did under Fisher 60 years ago and under Curtin and Chifley 25 years ago. It is now time for a new deal in Australia. It is time for a Labor government. Common sense and progress demand it. 
I submit that the decision the House has to make on this matter is quite a simple one. As to whether the letter should be tabled, there are 2 components: The first is whether the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  summarised or quoted from this letter. If he summarised from the letter,  Sir, your  ruling based upon May in respect of that point is an accurate ruling. If, on the other hand, he quoted from the letter your ruling is inaccurate and should be disagreed with. In respect of the second matter, if this letter is a private letter your ruling is correct and it should not be tabled. If it is not a private letter your ruling is incorrect and it should be tabled. 1 submit that clearly those are the 2 points we have to decide. 
What is the evidence about this matter? Did the Prime Minister summarise or did he quote? I think the answer to this can be found only in Hansard, and it is a very simple answer. On page 9 of Hansard of 22nd February the Prime Minister is reported as having referred to this matter. He said: 
. and on 23rd December 1971 I wrote to  Sir Ian  McLennan. Amongst other things, I said: 
Then he began to quote and Hansard assumed that he was quoting because Hansard put what he said in small print in a separate paragraph, as Hansard always does when a member is quoting. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  helped him to draft this letter. I submit the evidence on page 9 of Hansard is quite clear and unequivocal about this point. The Prime Minister quoted from the letter and did not try to summarise it. Had he tried to summarise it he would have referred to other matters in the letter, but he referred only to a specific matter which he quoted from the letter. Hansard and the rest of the House, and everybody who was aware of it, knew he had quoted from the letter. The quote is: 
It would certainly be a matter of grave concern to the Government if in this climate of rising costs your board decided to implement a further increase in the price of steel. Such a step would I believe, strike a severe blow at the prospects which may now be emerging of some restraint in the growth of costs and of prices. 
Is that a quote from the letter of the Prime Minister to  Sir Ian  McLennan or is it not a quote? That is what the House has to decide. Is it a quote or not a quote? Presumably the Prime Minister will follow me in this debate, or he will follow somebody else. Can he say that this is not a quote? Will he say that this is not a quote? Of course he will not, because he knows that it is a quote and he knows that he and his staff would have looked fully at the way Hansard submitted the greens. He would have known, because they are all experienced people, that this way of stating the position in Hansard means that this is a quote. 1 submit,  Mr Speaker,  that the evidence of Hansard is that this is a quote from the letter and not a summary. A fact that the Prime Minister I am sure cannot deny is that the paragraph I have just read is in fact a quote from the letter. If it was not a quote from the letter, surely the Prime Minister would be running the risk of misleading the House if he wanted to tell us in this House the vital point that was in the letter and he did not go on to quote that vital point. In that case he would run the risk of misleading the House, but there is no question about it. Both on the basis of the appearance of Hansard and on the obvious fact which the Prime Minister, I am sure, will not seek to deny, that this paragraph is a quote from the letter, I submit that your ruling on the first ground is incorrect and should be disagreed with. 
In respect of the second ground - whether this is a private letter - again I think the matter can be settled by reference to Hansard. A private letter would be a letter which was confined to the Prime Minister and  Sir Ian  McLennan or perhaps one or two other people at the very most, because if it gets beyond a small group of people like that not even the Prime Minister will be eligible to claim that it is any longer a private letter. But of course the Prime Minister said quite clearly on page 10 of Hansard of 22nd February that this was not a private letter.  Mr Speaker,  if you will give me your attention for a moment 1 will direct you to that part of Hansard where the Prime Minister says that it is not a private letter. On page 10 he said: 
It was appropriate that I should do this because they were the Ministers - primarily the Deputy Prime Minister - who were responsible for the carriage of this matter. I believe that they were fully informed. As to the letter itself, I had no responsibility whatsoever for its distribution. 
Do you distribute a private letter? Is that your normal conduct? 
Is that your normal conduct, to distribute a private letter? But this is the particular point I want to draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker:  The Prime Minister said: 'I asked that it be given the widest distribution.' So we have a Prime 
Minister who writes a private letter and then asks that it be given the widest distribution! What is the widest distribution? Would the Prime Minister please tell us that? How many people should know and how many people have to be shown this letter before it achieves what in your opinion,  Mr Prime  Minister, is the widest distribution? Are you in the habit of writing private letters and ensuring that they get the widest distribution? Undoubtedly you are introducing a completely new principle into this House. 1 submit that on both grounds,  Mr Speaker,  your ruling unfortunately is wrong. I submit that the evidence I have briefly summarised here is that the Prime Minis er quoted from this letter and did not summarise it. 1 submit that he cannot deny that. I challenge him to do so. I challenge him to say whether the quotation on page 9 is a quote or not, to say it clearly and unequivocably - in less than 200 or 300 words. On the second point I submit that this is not a private letter and it would be ridiculous and stupid in the extreme to say that it was - that a letter that the Prime Minister himself said on one day had to have the widest distribution should be claimed on the next day to be a private letter. That would be a completely ridiculous position to take but unfortunately,  Mr Speaker,  you have taken that position. I can well understand it. The Prime Minister obviously needs defence and I think he is exposing himself more and more in the ridiculous situation that this ma'ter over BHP has become. I submil that the House has a responsibility to see and judge the facts, and if the House sees and judges the facts of this matter it will clearly say that your ruling was wrong,  Mr Speaker.  It will disagree with your ruling and say that this letter was a letter from which the Prime Minister quoted and did not summarise. The House will say that this is not a private letter and that it should be tabled for the inspection of the House, on these purely technical grounds, I submit overwhelmingly that your ruling was wrong and that the House should disagree with it. 
 I would like to support the honourable member for Wills. 
Yes, I second the motion. I do so because this matter has been made relevant by the conduct of such persons as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  to whom the question was addressed, and other people on his side of the House. Normally, perhaps a question of this kind could properly be ruled out of order; but when by the conduct of the person concerned and of other persons the question has been made relevant to the business of this House, as it has been by urgency motions on notice and by other statements made on many occasions by the Minister concerned and by others on his side of the House - I submit that there is a strong case for ruling that a question asked about that conduct is in order. They have done this by calling into question the conduct of other people, by describing young men who resist the draft as 'draft dodgers'. 
Those young men who resist the draft are not draft dodgers. They face their whole responsibility in this matter. They refuse to obey the law and they face the consequences of that. The draft dodgers are in this House - men who have a responsibility. If they call on other people to face that responsibility they should themselves, in honour as citizens, be willing to face that responsibility. But they do not do so and they call into question the conduct of others by using terms such as 'draft dodgers' when the truth is to the contrary. No-one is facing the draft more than those who resist the draft. No-one is facing the draft more thoroughly than those who have been willing to face 2 years imprisonment and now a shorter term. There is no-one who are dodging the draft less than they are, but they have been described in a different manner. They have been described, I think by the Minister to whom the question was addressed and at least 2 others such as the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  who has continuously in this period been of military age, has no responsibilities whatever- 
I am not reflecting on him by saying that he is of military age. I might be reflecting on him if I were saying that h was above military age - that would be reflection because he looks very young-but I am sure that it is not a reflection to say that he is of military age. The point I am making, however, is that it is by calling into question other people that the conduct of these members of Parliament themselves becomes relevant to the affairs of this Parliament and should be within the area of questions that are asked. 
When a citizen is concerned about whether he should be represented in this Parliament by a certain member or whether a member should be a Minister, he is concerned with matters such as this. He is concerned with the member's attitude to such a matter as military service and why, if the member attacks other people of similar age to himself and calls them 'draft dodgers', he has not accepted that kind of responsibility himself. The average citizen is concerned with the contradiction in the conduct of members and Ministers in this way. My impression is that the average citizen would have a lower opinion of a person who shelters behind parliamentary membership and at the same time does not exercise military service than he would have of a young man who faces fully the consequences of the draft and the penalties that might be imposed upon him - and have been imposed on some persons - if he does not carry it out. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  I submit that your ruling is incorrect. I submit that this matter is relevant to the affairs of the House and that the conduct of the persons in question has been brought into issue by those persons themselves and by the Minister's own continual statements in which his own position has been made relevant and called into question. As the honourable member for Wills set out to do, we have a full right to question such persons. I submit that you have wrongly ruled him out of order. 
This Bill gives effect to the recommendations of the Tariff Board in 8 reports and of the Special Advisory Authority in one report. I propose a little later to refer to some of those in some detail but before doing so there are one or two general matters which I would like to put before the House. When we deal with tariffs, I think, we are dealing with a matter that is of extensive and often critical importance to almost every Australian citizen. It is true that tariffs often increase the cost of goods to the consumer and it is quite easy to list a large number of important commodities at the price the consumer in Australia has to pay, and to say that if there was no tariff he would be able to get those commodities at 50 per cent, 100 per cent, and sometimes even more than that, less than the price he has to pay. But tariffs also allow production to develop in Australia and for jobs to be available for people in Australia. 
Whilst it is true that tariffs often increase the cost of goods it is also true that if it were not for tariffs there would be many less consumers in Australia, there would be many less people in Australia and many consumers would have much less money to buy goods at all. Unfortunately, the examination of tariffs in the Press and sometimes in this House takes place only from one aspect of this subject the aspect of complaints that prices are too high and they would be much less if it were not for tariffs, or the aspect that tariffs are justified whateverthey might happen to be because they do provide for industrial development which otherwise would not occur, for the provision of jobs that would otherwise not be available and for consumers to buy when there would be no consumers at all. Both of these aspects have to be taken into account when we are considering tariffs. Tariff protection changes significantly what free market forces would do and both widely and critically affect the whole economy of a country. Tariffs significantly influence what production there will be and what production there will not be. They significantly affect the allocation of resources. Tariffs also influence who will have income and who will not have income. They influence also the size and inequality of income. They significantly affect the distribution of income. 
Probably no other single factor in economic policy affects the allocation of resources and the distribution of incomes as much as tariffs do, and probably no less consideration is ever given by this House to any other matter than is given to tariffs. Probably no other single factor in economic policy is as important in Australia as is tariffs and probably no other single factor in economic policy is given less consideration by this House than is tariffs. 
Yes, I think that is right. I would say in answer to the interjection that few other matters involve nearly as much work or nearly as much detail as this one does. It is essential to realise the extent of the influence of tariffs. Tariffs do influence the economy so much that their operation actually determines the make-up - the composition - of the economy and of economic growth. They determine the planning of the economy. This has always been the case. Tariffs have been the main planning instrument ever used by Australian governments. There is nothing new in proposing that tariffs should be used for planning; they have always been used for planning. The question is not whether to use tariffs for planning but whether consciously or unconsciously to use tariffs for planning. The choice is to know what you are doing. The choice is to have the means to get enough facts to know what you are doing and on the basis of adequate information to decide what you are doing. Those are the choices about tariffs. 
What I claim is that the position in Australia is that we have used tariffs fully and significantly. They have vitally affected the Australian economy in the allocation of resources and the distribution of income. They have planned the economy more than any other factor. But we have not recognised or admitted what has been done and we have done it without adequate facts; we have worked in the dark. One of the reasons for the low level of interest and concern about tariffs is that we have not realised or admitted what in fact we are doing with tariffs. It is not just a matter of detail, complication and shortage of time. This applies also to other things. It applies to monetary policy. It applies to the complications of banking policy. This does not prevent a lot of people from considering that these are the things that are really important and there is plenty of interest in them. One of the reasons why there is a low interest in tariffs is that we do not recognise, nor do we admit, what we are doing with tariffs. This state of affairs must be ended. 
The extent to which the making and unmaking of tariffs can build or destroy an industry can be seen in the proposal now before the House to reduce tariffs on woven shirts. I want to look at the summary that has been made of the Tariff Board report on this matter. This is an industry, or part of one, which, the Tariff Board tells us, has about 10,000 employees and has about $25m of invested funds and the recommendation which this Parliament will give effect to today will bring about radical changes in the industry. It will bring about an upheaval; it will cause unemployment and it will cause the closing of some factories. 
I am referring to the manufacturer of woven shirts. The recommendation will do all these things. It will make a significant difference to the lives of many of those 10,000 people. I should like to quote from the conclusions - the summary - of the 1971 Tariff Board report on woven shirts to show the significance of this. The Board considers that the industry is highly fragmented and in its report states: 
The evidence points to a need for concentration of capital and production in far fewer factories from which the benefits of modern plant, bulk purchasing and more efficient marketing would flow. 
Think of the consequences of those 2 proposals. The Board considers that the industry is highly fragmented. It considers that there are hundreds of small producers. The Board is making a judgment that that situation no longer is appropriate in this industry. The Board has made a judgment that there is need for concentration of capital in far fewer factories and that there should be a change in the structure of the industry. In fact, I have been saying for several years that this is one thing that the Board must face. It must decide what should be the structure of an industry. It must make decisions that amount to the planning of an industry and, of course, it is very clear that that is what it is doing in this decision. It is time that the people of Australia realised that this is what the Tariff Board must do and is doing. People should come to realise that this is what the Tariff Board is doing - that it is saying that this industry of 10,000 employees with $25m of capital shall no longer be a smallscale industry but must be one in which there is a concentration of capital in far fewer factories, with all the implications of such a proposition. People will be more interested in the Tariff Board and in this Parliament if the Tariff Board and the Parliament make decisions that will change the whole structure of an industry and, consequently one industry after another. If we are to make decisions that involve the future development, makeup and composition of industry, do not let us talk about free enterprise anymore. Do not let us talk about an unplanned economy. Let us realise where we are and what we are doing in the 20th century. If we realise this there will be more interest in tariffs. There will not be only 2 or 3 people sitting in Parliament when we are debating tariffs as there always are; there may be half a dozen people. Let us realise that if people become aware of the significance of what we are doing here on a quiet afternoon early in March they will take more interest in it because we will change the lives of perhaps 10,000 people when we pass this measure this afternoon. In commenting on the existing duty of  62i  per cent, the Board said: 
It is apparent from the levels of price disadvantage and increasing imports that the substantive rate is no longer adequate. . . . This is particularly the case with man-made fibre shirts and low priced cotton shirts. . . . The Board calculated that in 1967-68, before the introduction of temporary duties, the protection afforded by the substantive duties was equivalent to an annual subsidy of at least $10m. 
We were providing through the tariff an annual subsidy of at least $10m to the shirt manufacturing industry. That is a fairly significant thing. We have not fully realised previously that when we made decisions in Parliament about this tariff, we were giving some manufacturers and workers a subsidy of $10m. This is one of the implications of tariff making. The Board's summary continues: 
The benefits offsetting this cost cannot be measured quantitatively. ... In the Board's view, the importance of retaining the industry, in its present form, for the employment it provides is overstated. . . . Only a small part of the industry's fabric requirements is obtained from local weavers. 
Other purchases by the industry are small. The report continues: 
The evidence leads the Board to the conclusion that production of shirts is a high cost activity which results in relatively small net gains to (he economy. 
The Board has concluded that it should not recommend a duty of 100 per cent which is necessary to secure all the market for local industry. Even the present level of duties is not consistent with economic and efficient production. It has not encouraged the best use of resources. The report continues: 
The Board believes that the industry should be rationalised into viable units . . . 
So, in this day of free enterprise, the Government is adopting an industrial policy of rationalisation. How far and where are we going with rationalising industry and what are its implications? The summary continued by listing the recommended rates. I emphasise that the summary informs us that the Board is aware that an immediate reduction of the tariff could cause disruption with consequent hardship. The proposed duty is not intended to support the present level of production. This is a simple realisation of facts, but to allow the manufacturers time to formulate their long-term plans the Board recommends an additional duty of $1.50 a dozen shirts until 31st December 1973. I am glad that this has been introduced because for 2 or 3 years I have been advocating precisely this. When a change of this kind is to be made, the Government cannot introduce it today and have it operating tomorrow. It must give people reasonable warning so that those who are working in the industry can be told. I hope they can be told and I hope they will hear from somebody. I hope somebody will tell them - the 10,000 people in Sydney, Melbourne and elsewhere that we are doing this. I hope the Press will pass the word on. 1 hope that one or two of the 10.000 people who are working in the woven shirts industry are listening to me and that these people will realise that many of them will lose their jobs. I say to them that they had better start looking for another job; they have only until 31st December 1973. An additional duty of $1.50 a dozen has been placed on the temporary duty of $14.50. What good the $1.50 will do. I do not know. 

 DrJ. F. CAIRNS - That is right: that as well. While it is proper reasonable and necessary for these changes they should not be whipped in without the knowledge of those concerned. I hope the Government has told the people involved. But has the Government done anything to tell them or is it expected that they will know as a result of this debate? Has the Government or the Tariff Board done anything to tell the people in the industry or has it told just the employers? Has it told even them what it is doing? These are important questions. The Government assumes that it can demolish and change a significant part of this industry, in the way that I have summarised from the report, from a fragmented industry to an industry with a concentration of capital and a few factories. But who is it telling that it intends to do this? 1 am sure the Government is telling nobody, because it likes to do these things without telling anybody. It likes people to believe that it is not intervening in the economy. It likes people to believe that it is a free enterprise government which does not believe in rationalisation or planning. But let us be open and frank and let us know where we are going and what we are doing in the 1970s. 1 think that this legislation concerning woven shirts in principle is one of the most important proposals that we have had in this House for many a long day. Unemployment will result in this industry. What is most wrong with unemployment? I think its chief effect is loss of income and not loss of work. Practically everybody in the community values income more than they value their jobs and more than they value work. What is most wrong with unemployment is loss of income, not loss of work. Very often work has little that is valuable about it to the worker concerned. Very often the loss of one job may be followed by the gaining of a better job. But what is most immediately harmful about loss of work is that it forces the person losing that job to exist on an income which no person regarded as a human being in a civilised community should be required to live on. 
I do not opposethe reduction of a tariff for an industry which is fragmented, which needs re-organisation, which works at excessive costs and obvious inefficiency and which lacks science and machinery, but I do object to the reduction of a tariff which is certain to throw a large proportion of 10,000 human beings upon standards hat no person in Australia should be asked to exist on for one hour. I object to a state of affairs which the adoption of this report under present circumstances makes inevitable. People who lose their jobs in this industry will be living at best on something between $10 and $20a week until they get another job. The Department of Labour and National Service is just not geared in any way to offer them the service to get another job or a better job without delay that must be offered if we are to make these changes as a result of deliberate Government policy, which is what is happening here. When the Tariff Board moves into an area like this to reorganise an industry, to demolish a considerable part of it, to change it from a fragmented one to one where there are just a few factories, it is time we brought the Department of Labour and National Service and he unemployment benefit up to the level that is matched by that change. The Department and the unemployment benefit are 50 years behind in this respect, not through any fault of the Department, but because we just have not had the proper development, thinking and planning in these fields which are the first responsibility of the Government. I object on behalf of the Opposition to the handling of a problem in this way. I object also to a state of affairs clearly stated by the Tariff Board on many occasions as was reported by it on page 6 of its 1969-70 annual report. It said: 
. large  sectors of the Tariff  have  not been  reviewed, and  the industries concerned still have  today essentially  the  same  tariffs  as those imposed for emergency reasons in the early 1930s. 
I object to that state of affairs. It is the most serious dereliction of duty of any Australian government, when inflation and high costs are such a serious problem, when unemployment so often results from high costs and inefficiency, that large sections of the tariff have not been reviewed and the industries concerned still have today essentially the same tariffs as those imposed for emergency reasons in the early 1930s. Do not tell me the Government is doing everything it can to deal with inflation when that situation is reached. The dereliction of duty is far worse when it is realised that the Government has known of the situation for many years and has deliberately done nothing to correct it. Even in the same year the Tariff Board reported at page 9 of its report: 
The resources available to the Board have been fully occupied in normal tariff revisions . . . 
At that time, the year before and the year before that the Tariff Board asked for more staff over a period but the Ministers responsible stalled the applications by claiming that matters of policy were involved. Even up to now no difference whatever has been made to the capability of the Tariff Board to make inquiries into those industries where tariffs are essentially the same as those imposed for emergency reasons in the early 1930s. The Tariff Board is still in the same position. It cannot do any more than carry out normal tariff revisions. There should be 3 principles seen clearly here and carried into effect without delay. Firstly, no industry should continue to be protected by a tariff that has not been examined for many years and which may well be a tariff high enough to allow those protected by it to exploit the consumer by excessive prices while inefficiency is protected and maintained. Secondly, no tariff should be lowered unless a full and adequate inquiry has been made and sufficient clear evidence is available that it should be reduced. Thirdly, no tariff should be reduced if it will cause unemployment unless there is a certainty that there will be provision of adequate income for those unemployed and adequate means for them to obtain another job and to obtain training if they so desire. None of these principles applies now and the Opposition is entitled to oppose every tariff measure that is put in this House until they do apply. 
When we are satisfied that tariffs can be used as an effective measure of economic policy and planning and for the development of manufacturing industry - we cannot be satisfied about that now and it will be quite a long time before we are satisfied with it; it probably will require a change of government - we will be entering a new era of economic policy. When we have effective means to deal with the consequences of tariff changes and, in particular, tariff reductions, then tariff changes can be used as an instrument of economic policy. Tariffs are the most effective means in the whole armoury of economic policy for an Australian government because of the constitutional divisions of powers in Australia. Tariffs must be the result only of scrutiny and analysis and proposals of a tariff board or a body similar to the Tariff Board because any body which has to make the scrutiny and these proposals needs a competent staff. It needs the means to get the facts and to make an effective analysis. There must be a presumption in favour of the proposals or recommendations of the Tariff Board or similar body. Despite the inadequacies of the Board there is even a presumption in favour of its recommendations today. 
But through the tariff power the Tariff Board or similar body can do all the things it is doing in the case of woven shirts. It can control prices; it can control the flow of investment funds; it can control the allocation of resources and their location. The Tariff Board can plan the development of industry and much of that development which serves and follows up industry. It is not only a matter of tariffs but also involves every other item that enters into prices. Here I want to draw the attention of the House to what appears over and over again in Tariff Board reports and that is that wages and salaries do not amount to more than 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the total costs. Far too much stress is being laid on wages and salaries both as inflationary factors and as factors in costs. I hope to look at the reports now before the House during the Committee stages because we do not have time these days to do it at the second reading stage and I will try then to direct the attention of honourable members to most of those 9 cases where direct wages and salaries are between 20 per cent to 30 per cent of total costs. Materia! costs, often imported material costs, are very much higher than that. Profits appear significant with dividends taking something between  5  per cent and 20 per cent. Retained funds, undistributed income and depreciation allowances are all very significant. It is from these sources that as much as two-thirds of the money that is used for industrial development comes. Up to as much as two-thirds of the money for future development comes out of prices. 
Those who are in a position to produce now in proportion to their existing power have the means to determine who will be in a position to produced tomorrow and under what circumstances and what they will produce. In present circumstances in Australia the most effective way for the ordinary people to exercise some say in the use of economic power is through the government of the nation, and in present circumstances the most effective instrument of government in Australia in the exercise of economic power is in fact the tariff. The Tariff Board or some other body must soon realise the full significancae of what it is doing. The proposals before the House involve all these consequences for government today. 
I conclude my speech in the second reading debate by saying that I hope the people in this Parliament and elsewhere will realise the enormous significance of what we are doing with tariffs and that what we are doing in the woven shirt industry is changing the whole structure of the industry. We are changing it from a fragmented, small-scale industry into one which will become concentrated in probably a few factories. This is the kind of thing we are doing by public policy today. When we realise the full significance of this, then proper and adequate attention will be given to this matter. 
The second reading debate on this Bill was, in my opinion, the most effective, informed and useful debate on tariffs that I have heard in 16 years in this Parliament. In the 8 reports of the Tariff Board and in the one report of the Special Advisory Authority which this legislation puts into effect are some most significant developments. On Thursday last 1 pointed out that these developments include developments in relation to woven shirt production in Australia in respect of which the Tariff Board is proposing a most radical alteration to the structure of the industry. The Board says that the industry is fragmented with about 100 manufacturers and it says that a reduction of the tariff will result in the rationalisation of this industry to a few producers. I pointed out on Thursday last that this will affect about $25m of invested capital, which is not as important as at least 10,000 people who are employed in the industry. Industry tells me that the figure is more than 40,000 and I understand that there are statistics which show that the number concerned is as large as that. However, the Tariff Board uses in its report a figure of 10,000. 
I want the Committee to understand what will happen when these things occur. People will be thrown out of work in large numbers. lt is ali right to talk glibly about effective rates of tariff and an industry being economic and efficient, but what is proposed, and what the Government must realise it has done often is that many thousands of people will be forced onto the street. Yesterday an employee from this industry came to see me in my office. He is a migrant who is not yet sufficiently equipped with our language and with experience of Australia to be able to get a job elsewhere. He is married and his wife is about to have a baby. He has been out of work for 7 weeks. He has to pay $16 a week rent. He owes $7 a week on his furniture and $39 a month on a very used car. For 7 weeks he has been receiving, by the courtesy of the Commonwealth Government, for himself and his wife, the princely sum of $18 a week unemployment benefit. No humane government can proceed with a policy of this kind to rationalise an industry which forces people out of work and onto the street unless that government has made provision that such people shall be better treated than that. I do not care what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  says. I do not care if there are 1,000 honourable members for Wakefield or 1,000 professors of economics in the Australian universities who talk about efficiency and what is economic, unless the Government can provide belter than that. I will oppose every proposal the Government brings into the Parliament which will achieve such an end. 
Of course we want to see industry rationalised in this country. Of course we want to see industry economic and efficient, but we do not want to see - I will nol be prepared to see - things done at that cost. Since last Thursday 1 have received a circular from the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers, which represents a significant portion of the clothing industry, in which it says: 
It was significant that the debate was largely ignored in the Press on the following day while political stories of far less importance to the country's future were given. 
The columns of the daily Press on Thursday night and Friday were full of trivia, as they so often are. A debate was taking place in the national Parliament on a question that could materially affect 100 manufacturers and the jobs of perhaps more than 10.000 people in this country, yet not a word about it appeared in the daily Press. J raised this matter in the House the other day and I sought to raise it again today, but unfortunately nowadays members get an opportunity to ask a question about once every 3 weeks. It seems hardly worth while a member coming here, from the point of view of what he can say here. 
Did the Government give any warning about these proposals? Does anyone know what is to happen? Have any of the 1 0,000 people who might have been affected between now and the end of 1973 been told to look for jobs elsewhere? Or doe&lt; the Government simply agree to a legislative change which, as it were, pushes over the way in which people live and leaves it to them to go elsewhere for employment? If that is private enterprise, I do not want any more private enterprise. The Government will answer me by saying that it is putting a temporary duty of $1.50 on shirts until the end of 1973 and that it is going around South East Asian countries generally and elsewhere trying to obtain voluntary restraint agreements about not exporting shirts to Australia. If the Government is to decrease the confounded tariff, why does it go around the world seeking agreements from people not to export shirts? What is the answer to that? 
As we will not have much time in this debate to deal with all the details that are involved in these reports I will discuss things as they come. I want to refer now to the speech that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  made last Thursday, not that I need any reminding that it was good politics for him to take something that I said in 1967 and say that it differs from what I said in 1971. Even if it did, I have sometimes found that I have been wrong and I have then said something that I think to be true. I know that it comes as a thing to astonish members in this chamber that an honourable member ever does that. I see the Government day after day turning on the old record that it has never made a mistake, but I do not see life unchanged. In fact the quotations that the Minister chose do not involve that kind of change. 
He said that in 1967 T approved of  Sir Leslie  Melville's statement the gist of which was that we should deliberately select for assistance only the least costly ventures. I think it is reasonable to select the least costly ventures and that is why I approved of what Melville said. But I have been, both then and since, very positive in saying that I will not accept a selection of least costly ventures in circumstances which will force hundreds and perhaps thousands of people into unemployment, as the man who came into my office yesterday has been forced into unemployment for 7 weeks on $17 a week. And his wife is about to have a baby. No, I will not accept what  Sir Leslie  Melville says if it is implemented in those circumstances. So there is no contradiction. Do it properly and what  Sir Leslie  Melville said is wise policy. But do it the way the Government is doing it and I will not have a bar of it. I have not changed my views about Melville. Of course, the Minister did quote extensively from my speech in respect of those other points. In 1971 I said: 
The Australian Labor Party will never adopt a policy that may cause an upheaval in the lives of ordinary people simply because of some abstract economic theory. 
This is what I said and the Minister quoted it. There is one other point which I will not have time to deal with during this 10- minute period. 
By leave - The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  continually asserts that each and every tariff submitted in this chamber should be reduced. When the Tariff Board makes a reccomendation, of course he always supports it. He does l.ot recognise that this will perhaps lead to the closing down or the elimination of one industry after another. What is the consequence of this? He does not face up to it. He must face its consequences. Does he agree that a reduction of tariff in this way would eliminate the shirt industry or the man-made fibres industry? This is a possibility that he must face. 
I want to take a few minutes to deal with a matter that has been raised twice today. Earlier I denied the assertion made by the Minister for  Customs  and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and brought up again by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  as though it had never been said before and had never been dealt with. It must go through the speech writers who are employed by the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. Such things are not an accident. The claim is that I have made a 180 degree turn in my attitude to the tariff. I dealt with this thoroughly this afternoon, but as the honourable member for McPherson has mentioned it again I will have to deal with it again. Every time it comes up I will deal with it, because I know what misrepresentation is like. 1 think that for a period of many years I have been misrepresented more times than any other person in this Parliament and I am sick and tired of misrepresentation. I have made the position quite clear, that the Tariff Board has reported that wide sectors of industry are protected by tariffs, established in the emergency of the depression, that have never been examined since. I said that that situation was wrong and I quoted  Sir Leslie  Melville, who said that excess protection should not continue and that it was preferable to employ resources in lower cost opportunities. Of course that is true. I said it in 1967. I said that this situation that the Tariff Board was continuing to report was untenable. The Country Party has accepted it for years. 
The Country Party, with its leader the Minister for Trade and Industry, has been more responsible for acceptance of the situation than has anybody in this Parliament. The Country Party has accepted a situation in which wide sectors of industry in this country have been protected since 1930 and have never been examined by the Tariff Board. The Country Party is responsible for that more than anybody. I have said that the Tariff Board also reported that it did not have enough staff and facilities to make more than the current inquiries that it was required to conduct and I said that the Tariff Board should be equipped with more adequate staff to do this. Yet the Country Party Minister and the Minister for Customs and Excise at the time deliberately delayed this for 3 years by claiming it was a matter of policy. 
Let us get rid of this humbug. Honourable members opposite want it both ways. They want to be protectionists in the country and free traders in the city.It just will not work. I have said that I would not accept this and I have quoted people like Melville in relation to the use of resources. 1 have also said and have always said - we have complete understanding and agreement in the Labor Party, as I think has become apparent, particularly in recent months - that we would not reduce tariffs until we had conducted a full and adequate inquiry. J have continuously said that so many of these inquiries are not adequate and I do not accept the Tariff Board reports as gospel. They are nol satisfactory, and the Tariff Board is not properly equipped. I have said that we must have these inquiries before we reduce tariffs. I have gone on to say that I would not accept tariff reductions that caused unemployment unless there was adequate provision of income and compensation for those who would lose their jobs as a result of this policy and adequate notification of alternative employment, which would be a function of the Department of Labour and National Service. This requires a 3-year or a 5-year plan. One cannot do anything in this country without such a plan. One cannot increase pensions to an adequate level, abolish the means test or change the shirt industry or the motor car industry with anything less than a 3-year or a 5-year plan. 
Let us face up to this and be a little more honest in our attitude to it and play politics a little less. 
Finally, I should like to deal with the point made by the honourable member for Mcpherson about the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. This is a virtuous thing because the great  Sir John  McEwen was associated with it. The honourable member for Mcpherson quoted the imbalance of trade between New Zealand and Australia. Of course there is an imbalance of trade. How would we expect that imbalance of trade to be corrected, by the export of refrigerators from New Zealand, manufactured by an Australian company in New Zealand? Could the imbalance be expected to be corrected in that way? No. One thing that the honourable member for Mcpherson might have to face up to is that if the balance of trade between New Zealand and Australia has to be corrected, it ought to be corrected by the export of a little more lamb and butter from New Zealand to Australia. Honourable members then would see whether the honourable member for Mcpherson was a free trader. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  made clear and adequate points. He said that we do not know the effect of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd moving its plant from Dandenong to New Zealand to manufacture refrigerators in exchange for an agreement by which it could export 2,000 cars to New Zealand. This is what has happened. The honourable member for Dawson said that we do not know what the effect of this will be, and of course he is right. We should know the effect before we agree to it. The honourable member said that probably the only effect it would have would be to increase the profit of General Motors-Holden's. There is no evidence that it will decrease the price of Australian refrigerators to have them manufactured in New Zealand and brought back to Australia by free entry, adding the cost of transport. Will that reduce the cost of refrigerators in Australia? The honourable member for Dawson was arguing that we should know these things, and what the honourable member for McPherson said was no answer to any of these matters 1 think it is time that we got away from this superficial attention to tariff matters that has been ruling in this House for so long and began to talk a little more seriously about the facts. 
Oh no, we will not press you unduly,  Mr Treasurer.  We will give you another 20 years like the 20 years you have already had. We have listened to a speech which bas no element of energy, urgency or interest, which of course is characteristic of this Government and of its predecessors. The growth of foreign control of the Australian economy is rapid and disturbing. In presenting this matter of public importance the Opposition says that the matter is urgent. We do so for the second time. The first time we said it was in 1967. Increasingly and driven unwillingly like a boy to school, the Government is now being concerned. It wants more information. It must not proceed rapidly. The matter is too complex. Of course we know that the Government has no intention of doing anything about this, and that is why we have raised this matter of public importance. By now there are very few Australians who have not expressed concern about it. The former Minister for 
Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, dramatic in all things, was more vivid and disturbed on this subject than on any other. 
A former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  noted for saying things but not for action - in government at any rate - has made something of a reputation for himself as an Australian by his warnings about the effects of foreign economic power in Australia. But it is only a reputation. He had plenty of opportunity as Prime Minister to do something, and he did nothing. He is now able to live on that reputation, when he has no responsibility for action. Now even the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has joined the growing band of those who are worried about foreign money. But nothing has been done. Governments that give effect to money power, as this one does, cannot ever control money, and the problem remains. Not only does it remain but also it rapidly becomes more acute. The official figure is that 25 per cent of all manufacturing industry is now foreign owned. This is a low, conservative figure. Control, which does not need ownership, would probably be higher. Furthermore, the figure is growing by at least 1 per cent a year. It is highly probable that if conditions remain unchanged half Australian manufacturing industry will be foreign controlled within 10 years. 
Inside manufacturing industry the situation is more critical. The big companies are even more foreign controlled than manufacturing industry is as a whole. Of 299 large companies in manufacturing, mining and oil, 47 per cent are now foreign controlled. The commanding heights of the Australian economy are already in foreign hands. Within the manufacturing and mining fields the position of key industries is even more critical. In the case of motor vehicles 90 per cent of the industry is foreign controlled. In the case of non-ferrous metals 85 per cent is foreign controlled. For mineral oils the figure is 80 per cent; for industry and heavy chemicals it is 78 per cent; for pharmaceutical and toilet preparations it is 76 per cent; for metals mining it is 70 per cent and for fuel mining it is 40 per cent The speed with which foreign control increases amongst the large companies is shown in the rise in 5 years in metals mining from 53 per cent to 70 per cent and in fuel mining from 18 per cent to 40 per cent. 
Certainly the Opposition's statement is correct. There is an increasing control of Australian resources and industry. What is wrong with such a high level and such a rapid increase? I do not believe there is anything wrong with foreigners as foreigners or that there is much difference in the aims and desires between foreigners and Australians. I have no phobias about foreigners. But foreigners can and do have interests which may not coincide with Australian interests. Foreign banks - and British banks are foreign banks - have always been and still are powerful in Australia. They are invariably on the side of a restrictive financial policy. It was their power that brought the depression of the 1930s to Australia. The Australian banks, especially the Bank of New South Wales, advocated a more liberal financial policy. If they had prevailed Australia would have lost hundreds of millions of pounds less in the depression of the 1930s. This can, and to some extent, will happen again. Always the foreign financial interests favour a tight money policy. They sell money and they want to keep up its price. This puts them on the side of a good money policy and against a high employment policy. Money, not jobs, is their interest. Hence foreign control in Australia is a tight money control and Australian employment and even economic growth must come second. It is not in Australia's interests to have economic policy determined or influenced unduly by foreign money dealers, and it is at present. 
It is true that foreign capital inflow has probably produced a greater rate of growth than Australia would otherwise have had but foreign capital has also been one of the main causes of inflation and of unbalanced resource allocation. Foreign capital has been a vital factor in the urban concentration. Money - much of it foreign - has poured into the cities because the owners of that money were mainly interested in pushing up land and property values which they already owned. Foreign capital has played an equally vital role in polluting the environment. Polluting indus tries are profitable industries and foreign capital goes for the highest profits. The new religion - economic growth - has become too much of a faith. It is true that foreign capital inflow has allowed an even higher rate of economic growth but how much higher? Can anyone claim it is even 1 per cent for it is certainly not 2 per cent or more? But the point is that Australia might have been a better place to live in if we had obtained a different allocation of resources. 
Today, and more and more in the future, the critical question will not be the rate of growth but the composition of growth. It will not be how much is done but what is done. It is far more difficult to regulate foreign money than Australian money with respect to the environment, cultural developments and public interest. But taking foreign capital inflow at its face value which economists and bookkeepers usually do, capital inflow is favourable to growth because it gives a country more foreign funds than it could earn from trade. Leaving aside the fact that a large proportion of those funds are spent on imports which make no contribution to economic growth the passage of time makes a vital difference. In the first few years the inflow of capital generally much exceeds the outflow of dividends and profits, then the outflow of dividends and profits tends to catch up. 
I will not weary the House with statistics but there are plenty of them which show that about 90 per cent of the inflow of capital in a normal year is equalled by the outflow of dividends and by undistributed profits. The trend is for them to come together and before very long the outflow will exceed the inflow. There are 3 things to say about this: Firstly, inflow will fluctuate much more than outflow in inflationary times but in recession times outflow may rise critically. Secondly, it is sound to conclude that capital inflow is speculative and inflationary and that its net value to Australia is falling. Thirdly, the level of foreign capital is already such that any Australian government in times of recession would be vulnerable to the power of foreign investors to cut the inflow of capital or to withdraw funds. Australian governments in those circumstances would have their backs to the economic wall. We should not make the wall any higher than it is. That would be sound advice from a national point of view. 
Furthermore it is realistic to point out that much of what is called 'foreign capital' has never come to Australia at all in terms of funds. In fact, it is money obtained here from Australian consumers and it is retained in profits. A large, significant and growing part of every piece of plant and every building with the name of a foreign company over it has been acquired in Australia by money obtained in Australia as a result of the monopolistic powers exercised in this country. 
There are many other disadvantages of foreign capital. I will not have time in this debate to refer to them all. One is that foreign capital restricts export capacity. There are thousands of franchises and agreements - many thousands of them are known to the Department of Trade and Industry - which prevent industries in Australia which have in them foreign capital from exporting overseas at all or to certain markets. In some cases the development of industry is prevented. Control of the film industry means that we have no film industry in Australia and we will never have it unless something is done about this. Enough has been said to show the damage that has been done. 
Some things can be done about this. First of all, there must be an inquiry. Perhaps a Senate committee will exercise the desirable role in this respect. Secondly, laws which say that certain basic or key industries shall not become foreign controlled must be enacted. The concrete pipes case has put the power of the Commonwealth in this respect beyond doubt. Thirdly, the organisation of government capital and private capital, too, if this is agreeable, must come about to ensure that basic resources and industries are Australian controlled. The introduction of government capital into these, I believe, will be essential. Among the essential industries would be banking, the so-called merchant banking and consumer finance. Among the essential industries, also would be the mass media. Another step that could be taken is to gain the know-how and technique which is so essential to economic progress. This can be obtained by management contracts from countries like Japan, Switzerland and 
Sweden which specialise in these matters. We can get all that is needed in know-how without selling out the control of our industries. Australia has not much time left It is now time for action. 
Many years ago I saw a film entitled  'Colonel Blimp',  and in the peroration I heard that the  Colonel would  never die. I now realise that be has not died. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  presented this statement. This is an Army affair; it is not an external affairs statement. Where is the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is supposed to know something about Vietnam? The Minister for Defence spoke like  Colonel Blimp.  It is as though the Pentagon Papers had never been published, as though every statement which the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  made tonight had not been thoroughly disproved by official American documents, as though nothing had ever happened. 
Now that almost all Australians have been withdrawn from Indo-China and it appears that Americans are being withdrawn, we are being asked to conclude that it was all worth while. But the documents to which I have referred and many others show that the war in Indo-China, carried on by Americans and Australians, has always been an unjustifiable, immoral,, illegal and even criminal war, and it remains so. Since the beginning of the debate about Vietnam in 1961 I have taken one side and the Government and all its supporters have taken another. There were many vital matters in the disagreement between us. Among them were whether what was being fought was aggression from the North or a movement strongly supported by the people of Vietnam and Indo-China; whether the war that began in South Vietnam had been started by the people in South Vietnam oi whether it had been started and carried on by North Vietnam; and then whether the war in South Vietnam had been started by the Diem Government by attacking those it called communists, or whether it had been started by an attack by those called communists upon the Diem Government. Another question was whether the enemy, as the Australian Government and almost no-one else in Australia chose to call them, relied mainly upon terror and intimidation, or whether they had won support genuinely from the people. Another question was whether the Australian Government and American Government, which the 
Australian Government merely parroted in any case, had told the truth or lies about the war in Vietnam. 
I and other members of the Oppositioncan claim to have taken one side in all these questions and the Australian Government and its supporters took the other. I think I can now claim, on the basis of official American evidence shown in ' the Pentagon Papers and elsewhere, to have been right and the Australian Government and its supporters were wrong. Australia was wrong to go into the war in IndoChina, and those who have died in that war have unfortunately died in a bad cause. For this the Australian Government is guilty and should be dealt with for being guilty. Because of its guilt in the war in Indo-China, far more than for any other reason, the Government of Australia should be rejected by the people. This great question about guilt in the war in Indo-China cannot be answered only on the basis of recent years, or on cliches such as those which we have just heard from the honourable member for Bennelong. 
The war in Indo-China did not begin in 1965 when Australians were sent there. It did not begin in 1954 when Americans were sent there, or in 1945 when the French returned, or in 1941 when the Japanese invaded Indo-China. It began at least as early as 1847 when a French naval expedition arrived and in 70 minutes killed more people than had been killed in 2 centuries of war in Indo-China before that. The war in Indo-China in which Australians became involved in 1965 and Americans in 1954 can be understood only if we realise that Indo-China had been occupied by foreign powers for over a hundred years and that resistance against them had never ceased. When thinking about Indo-China few people think of events before 1965 or 1954. No honourable member on the Government side ever thinks of events before 1965 or 1954. It is as though they are completely ignorant of history. It is not surprising, therefore, that they are generally wrong. 
Throughout the second half of the 19th century there was a mandarin led guerrilla war against the French in which ambushes, assassinations, terror, mass executions, search and destroy missions, concentration camps and tiger cages were as common as in recent years. Does not anybody on the Government side know that? Nothing the Americans or Australians tried to do was not tried by the French over 70 years before. But there was no French victory. Does not anybody opposite know that? The only thing that has changed has been the power of the guns and bombs that the invader used. During all these years French imperialist occupation of IndoChina transformed the country. Rice had to be changed from a food crop, prohibited from export, to a commercial crop for export. A landlord system was created. Much of the security and cohesion of the villages was destroyed. A rural labour force came into being and unemployment became widespread. This is already thoroughly documented by the historians. It was these economic and social conditions, largely created by the French, which became the force behind the 20th century national revolution which Australian and American forces fought in the name of fighting communism. Does not any honourable member opposite know that? 
The first stage of the war in Indo-China was at an end by about 1890. Now the Indo-Chinese nationalist middle class, and intellectuals, were no longer able to lead the fight against the French with guns but turned to politics and to Japan and China for aid. It was not until the 1920s that they lost leadership to those who argued that the French could be expelled only by the Indo-Chinese themselves, and that there must be a campaign also against the Indo-Chinese ruling class who shared power with the French. This stage of the war had come to an end by 1931. The historian Harold Isaacs summed up what had happened in this way: 
The line of French priests, conquerors and governors is matched by a line no less long of IndoChinese fighters and martyrs and leaders of the people. 
Does not any honourable member opposite know that that is the history of Vietnam and of Indo-China? 
The fourth stage of the war came with the Japanese invasion of 1941. How many times does a country have to be invaded before it is entitled to fight for itself? The issue which now determined whether a man was a patriot or not was his willing ness to fight against the foreigners. Then the British troops came back and the Chiang Kai-shek forces in the north came back and they differed from the British only in that their pay-off went to their generals and not to big business. The fifth stage of the war began on the morning of 23rd November 1946 when French warships opened fire on Haiphong and later French officials calmly admitted that 'no more than 6,000 were killed in 2 hours so far as naval bombardment of fleeing civilians was concerned'. How much do people have to take before they are entitled to fight back? Does not any honourable member opposite know anything of this history and recognise these things? 
The sixth stage of the war began before the Geneva Agreements had even been signed. The fully documented evidence of the Pentagon Papers shows that the EisenhowerDulles Administration rejected the Geneva Agreement and its election, set up the Diem Government and began immediately to supply it with military power for only one reason - so that it could immediately set out to destroy the communists, as it was put, in South Vietnam and equally as much elsewhere in Indo-China. On the other hand the Pentagon Papers show equally clearly that North Vietnam accepted the Geneva Agreement and told their people in South Vietnam to prepare for the election and began to seek relations with Diem. Understandably, in North Vietnam some showed strong opposition to this but it was only after the Diem-American forces began their campaign to eliminate the communists and extended it to everyone else that there came back into existence a guerilla movement in the South. Douglas Pike states in his book Viet Cong' - he is the American authority - that they fought because they were forced to fight for their existence. Has the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  ever read Douglas Pike? Has he ever read the Pentagon Papers? 
Late in 19S9 North Vietnam changed its policy. It began to send men and arms, in a trickle for well over a year, and it endorsed the military action being taken by the guerillas in the South. As the DiemAmerican forces escalated their attack - largely with helicopters - so North Vietnam sent more aid to the South. The year 1963 showed that Diem had been completely unable to bring about the reforms recognised as necessary because he and his supporters were built into the landlord system and could not bring about reform. The year 1963 also showed that the DiemAmerican forces faced military defeat. Hence the seventh stage of the war began in which the fighting was taken over by the Americans and North Vietnam and Laos were intensively bombed. This was not because of aggression from the North. The Tonkin Bay incident was misused by Johnson so that it became the biggest lie of the war. It was because the Diem-American regime in the South was demoralised and defeated that North Vietnam and Laos were bombed. But North Vietnam, confidently predicted as vulnerable by all the experts, could not be forced to surrender. Laos became the most intensely bombed area in human history. The light at the end of the tunnel never came nearer and American costs and casualties mounted. Finally the Tet offensive, judged impossible, took place.  President  Johnson for the first time found that to make his decision for negotiations at all credible he must give up what he wanted more than anything else in life - that is to be American  President  again and not to be the first American  President  to lose a war. 
The eighth and last stage of the war in Indo-China began with Nixon's hidden war of the automated electronic battlefield. Has not anyone heard of it? General Westmoreland said that the electronic battlefield was a war in which machines replaced men. He said:  an integrated area control system that exploits the advanced technology of communications, sensors, fire direction and its required data processing. 
Leonard Sullivan, Deputy Director of Research and Development, had told a committee:  we can detect anything that perspires, moves, carries metal, makes a noise, or is hotter or colder than its surroundings. 
The New York Times' had discovered: 
The landscapes of Vietnam and the border areas are studded with (millions of) electronic sensors that beep information into banks of computers. 
Michael Malloy in January 1972 summed it up: 
The entire process, 'from beep to bang' may take less than 5 minutes. 
The Nixon hidden war has been the result of the work of those moral eunuchs that war scientists have become. Professor Pool of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had warned: 
. unless it is severely provoked, or unless it succeeds fast, a democracy cannot choose war as an instrument of policy. 
Every shred of justification that the war had been provoked by North Vietnam disappeared. Then came the Pentagon Papers to prove that it had been a deliberate policy on the part of the United States all the time and so if the war were to be carried on it had to be carried on, as Professor Huntington of Massachusetts said: reasonably limited, discreet and covert'. It had to be hidden. The automated electronic battlefield was the ideal answer. There is a strange failure of the mass media to report this war. Are they part of a Nixon conspiracy to hide it or have they been unable to find out the facts about it? Professor Huntington put it: 
The direct application of mechanical and conventional power now takes place on such a massive scale as to produce a massive migration from countryside to the city. 
The automated electronic war admits that the strength of the Vietcong is the people. It admits that if the guerrillas are to be defeated they have to be separated from the people. The guerrillas cannot be hit enough, so the people have to be hit. The guerrilla war is a peoples' war. The American war is an anti-people's war. The automated electronic war admits that if the enemy is to be defeated the people have to be driven into towns and cities and become isolated behind the lines of firepower. Hence millions of refugees are created. People are sent into the corruption of the cities to live on the American payroll of sex and Japanese consumption goods. They are brainwashed and indoctrinated. The automated war is an anti-personnel war. It kills. Its bombs are designed to hit people and sometimes not even to kill. The bombs leave the aircraft in one capsule then spray out in hundreds at a time over a wide area. On hitting the ground some of them bounce 5 or 6 feet and then explode so that the spray of metal scraps and fleshettes will be more likely to hit more flesh. Sometimes they are designed to drive into the simple shelters used by the peasants. Sometimes they are small mines which look like a leaf or a piece of soil which, when stepped on, can blow open a bare foot. That is the kind of war honourable members opposite are supporting. 
Not only is the automated war a hidden war to perserve the President's electoral standing but also it is an anti-personnel war. It is a war of a thousand My Lais for which no-one is responsible for there is no Lieutenant Calley pointing his rifle at a woman or a child. It is an anonymous, cowardly war. It is in breach of almost every international convention. The truth is that the automated electronic war is not an effective substitute for men on the ground. It has been described as the most expensive and least effective military endeavour in history. It will be people, not machines, that win the war in Indo-China. America's people have had little to fight for but money. The Vietnamese people have existence as a nation to fight for. That is the difference that will eventually decide that war. It may be that the war in Indo-China can remain hidden enough for  President  Nixon to be elected again as  President.  But it is hardly likely that the war in IndoChina can long continue after that election. The eighth stage of the war in IndoChina is the last stage. There is no other. 
I want to say two hundred or three hundred words on this measure, very largely as a result of what was suggested by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I think the difference that exists between what happens in an area for which the Commonwealth Government is responsible, as it is in the Northern Territory, and areas where other governments or local authorities are responsible should be pointed out. In the last proposal the House approved the expenditure of $900,000 for sewerage works at Tennant Creek. In this motion approval is sought for the expenditure of $4.4m on a road in the East Alligator River area. This money is provided quickly. A public servant in the Northern Territory can feel a road coming on and before long that road comes on. But I represent an area in the western suburbs of Melbourne where about 50,000 or 60,000 people live in 10,000 or 15,000 separate homes which do not have sewerage facilities available. These houses are within 10 or 11 miles of the centre of the city of Melbourne. Many of them are not serviced by sealed roads at all. Quite a number of creeks in this area flood badly during the winter. A creek between Deer Park and Albion flooded badly a few months ago and 3 children, in two different places, were washed into it on the way home from school. I do not suppose this sort of thing happens in the Alligator River area but it has happened within 10 or 1 1 miles of the Melbourne General Post Office. If the people of the western suburbs of Melbourne had $4.4m to spend on roads and even $900,000 to spend on sewerage it would make a tremendous difference to 50,000 or 60,000 people. I think there is something seriously wrong with the priorities of the system of Commonwealth and State financial relations when money can be provided so readily for the Northern Territory while so many  thousands of people in the western suburbs of Melbourne, as distinct from open country where exist the vistas that please the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  cannot get money so easily. 
I was moved to say these things by the speech of the honourable member for Hunter who has found, as a member of the Public Works Committee quite a number of large land owners, pastoralists and so on who do not want the proposed road. I know tens of thousands of people who want roads badly and who would be very pleased to have them just as would be pleased to have sewerage facilities if they could get them. I think I should at least remind the House, when it is agreeing so easily to the expenditure of more than $5m for this part of Australia, that so many other people in Australia are missing out on essentials. I do not say that these things should not be done for the Northern Territory. The Committee has recommended these works and this is something about which we can be pleased. However 1 direct the attention of anyone who may be listening to the disparity suffered by areas like Deer Park, St Albans, Albion, Ardeer, and West Sunshine in the western suburbs of Melbourne where 50,000 to 60,000 people do not have the essentials and are not likely to get them for quite a number of years to come. This is something that those concerned should take into account. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Is it a fact that proposals for bulk shipping of wool from Australia are under consideration, which proposals are believed to be capable of reducing considerably the cost of shipping wool from Australia? Can the Minister say what is the attitude of the Australian Wool Board to these proposals and whether his own attitude differs from that of the Board? Can he assure the House that the matter will be fully examined and fully reported to the House so that it may examine the quotes, in effect, of both the shipping conference and the one or two competitors before any decision is finally made, especially if that decision is to retain the existing arrangements with the monopolistic shipping conference? 
The Opposition will not take a great deal of time in debating this Bill. It approves of it and will not propose any amendments. However, some honourable members will be proposing certain criticisms and suggestions but they lie mainly in 2 fields. Firstly, they relate to the power that exists in the Department of Customs and Excise and which is illustrated by the sections that this Bill seeks to amend and by a number of other sections to which I will refer. One  speaker  from the Opposition will be saying that there should be amendments in respect of other items where, in particular, in relation to the machine tools industry ancillary to the automotive industry exports which should not get into this country, get in through the substitute clauses in the Customs Tariff Act. He will suggest that this matter should be examined and an amendment made. I will be doing more than that. I will be saying why I think there is something wrong with the division of power at present between the Minister for Customs and Excise and the Minister for Trade and Industry and why some quite important changes should be made. 
This amendment is a small one really and comes about apparently because the importer of goods in Australia in some cases has a subsidiary - another firm or concern that the importer owns - and this subsidiary acts also as a selling agent for the exporter overseas who provides the subsidiary with goods at a price much lower than he expects eventually to get for them. The tariff then is fixed on that low amount. The tariff is consequently cut down to, say, half if the goods were improperly valued at half. The amount of tariff depends not only on the ad valorem percentage but also on the value of the goods to which that percentage is applied. If the value of the goods is artificially lowered then, even though the tariff at that percentage is applied to the artificially lowered value, the amount added by the tariff and, therefore, paid will be considerably less. The goods then go to the importer at their full value plus the lower tariff and the subsidiary selling agent then pays the overseas exporter the full amount which he receives from the importer in Australia. The overseas exporter gets his full amount but he in fact pays a tariff on a much lower amount. That is the racket. Something out of this deal would go to the Australian importer who had co-operated in the conspiracy. 
This Bill changes the relevant sections of the Customs Tariff Act to give the Department of Customs and Excise the power to fix its own value and, of course, it has the power to fix its own value of any goods submitted for importation into Australia under certain circumstances. Some other conditions are being added to the ones that exist already, such as in the words 'other action was taken or other arrangements were made' at the point of import. These amendments are to sub-section (2.) of section 8 of the Customs Tariff Act which I find on page 4 of the 1966 Act. The amendments also are to section 31 which I find in the Customs Tariff Act 1967 at page 4. There section 31 went in by amendment. I might say in passing that it is time we had some consolidation of these Acts. Although most of the Acts comprise schedules it takes quite a bit of time to find one's way around them. It might be wise to give attention to this matter before much longer; attention will be given to it if there is a change of government. 
I want to indicate now the kind of powers that are similar to the ones that we are amending and to give an indication of the kind of powers that the Minister for 
Customs and Excise and his Department have. Section 25 of the Customs Tariff 1966 at page 14 states:  (1.) Where goods consist of separate articles, whether or not the articles are specifically referred to in the First Schedule, the Minister may direct - 
that the duty in respect of the goods is the duty that would be applicable in respect of them if they consisted only of such one of those articles, or such of those articles, as, in the opinion of the Minister, gives or give to the goods their essential character; or 
that the duty in respect of the goods is the duty that would be applicable in respect of them in each of those articles that been imported separately. 
Section 23 and 24 indicate the kind of powers that the Minister has. Section 22 states:  (1.) The Minister may, in instrument in writing, direct that, subject to such conditions, if any, as are specified in the instrument, goods that - 
are included in a class of goods specified in the instrument; 
are the produce or manufacture of  a  country that, at the time the goods are entered for home consumption, is  a  less developed country; 
are imported into Australia by or on behalf of such person as is specified in the instrument; and 
are imported into Australia during such period as is specified in the instrument . . . 
The Minister gets powers to do all sorts of things in relation to determining what the goods are and their value. On page 17 of the Customs Act 1901-68 we find that the Governor-General may by regulation prohibit the importation of goods into Australia - any goods at all - and on page 27 there is another indication of the kind of powers that he has where it says that the Governor-General may, by regulation, prohibit the exportation of goods from Australia. On page 36 the Act states:  (4.) For the purposes of the last 2 preceding sub-sections, the Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette - 
specify the manner in which the factory or works cost of goods is to be determined; and 
specify the manner in which the value of labour, the value of materials or the value of labour and materials is to be determined. 
The Minister may do these things by notice published in the Gazette. In other words, the Minister can in these ways as well as in many others halve or double the amount of tariff that has been recommended by the Tariff Board and adopted by this House and by a government. These powers are most extensive and I am unable to know the extent to which they are in fact used. I wonder whether the Minister knows. This Bill, which is an amending Bill, opens up the field of power exercised by Ministers for Customs and Excise and the officers of the Department. The Department of Trade and Industry and the Tariff Board would imagine that they have much to do with the control of imports into Australia but they may well have far less to do with it than the Department of Customs and Excise, though perhaps not the Minister because he may well be in a position where he is quite unable to know what the Department does. This Bill amends an Act which allows the Minister and his Department to change materially the effect of every tariff imposed by a Government after the recommendation of the Tariff Board. As I have indicated, this could be done in several ways. 
I am sure that in some ways amending the Act in this manner does not go far enough. There is a need and has been a need for years to change much more considerably than this Bill does the Acts of Parliament under which the tariffs and customs are administered. In recent years, for instance, certainly as much as one-third - pretty close to $400m worth of goods in a total of$1, 200m imported - in the last financial year came in under by-law admission. Sometimes as high as 40 per cent has been imported under by-law admission. One does not know the effect of those admissions and one has no way of finding out without having a joint parliamentary committee of inquiry sitting throughout the year. One does not know whether it would mean that goods are coming in much below the tariff level or whether applications have been rejected for things that may well be substitutes. The Department of Customs and Excise may have more influence in one day upon the way goods can enter Australia and at what actual rate of tariff than the Tariff Board or the Government has in a month. 
Before I indicate how the Australian Labor Party considers this Bill should amend the Act, I want briefly to outline again the purpose of the Labor Party in regard to the protection of Australian industries. It is necessary for me to do this because, although I have said it several times when speaking in debates on Bills of this kind in this Parliament, hardly anyone ever seems to hear it. In addition, we read in the newspapers articles by expert economists who somehow have missed it and who imply that nothing has been said or done and that I have no policy on this and neither has the Labor Party. At least I will have some chance of being heard today because the debate is being broadcast. 
The Australian Labor Party, as I have said before, will ensure that any industry that is efficient on objective measurable Australian standards - not on some theoretical assumption but on objective measurable standards - will have sufficient protection under a Labor government to continue in production. Protection, because it may reduce competition and for other reasons, may allow protected industries to charge prices in excess of those prices that are necessary to pay fair and reasonable wages, profits and other returns and to provide a reasonable amount for the growth of the industry itself. This possibility demands continuous and effective examination. 
The Commonwealth Government, in the Tariff Board, the Department of Trade and Industry or the Department of Customs and Excise, which at the moment is probably the most powerful of them all, does not possess the means to make this continuous and effective examination. The Australian Labor Party believes that the consumer needs protection just as much as industry and those who work in it need it. The ALP therefore will not allow any protected industry to charge whatever prices it may choose to charge. We will amend the law to ensure that the Commonwealth Government does possess adequate means to ensure that only reasonable prices, in the sense that I have just denned them, will in fact be charged by a protected industry. An amendment of this sort is long overdue and the Government must sooner or later realise how remiss it has been in missing out on opportunities, when amending the Act, by not taking these things into account. 
The need for effective measures of protection and effective means to ensure that protection is not wrongly used has been staring Liberal Governments in the face for the past  20-odd  years, as has been the case in the matter of public importance which was dealt with earlier today and which related to the existence of law and structures to deal with takeovers. These things have been a glaring need for years and years; yet the Government will not do anything about them. Why? Because it has no intention of doing anything and because it wants to see these practices continue. It is not anxious to have takeovers stopped, controlled or supervised because that is in conflict with what it calls free enterprise. It is not anxious to have some measure of price control associated with tariff protection- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I am reluctant to interrupt the honourable member, but I remind him that this is a very limited debate. The Bill proposes only  2  minor amendments in relation to the f.o.b. price and landed cost of goods. I ask the honourable member to relate his remarks to the particular provisions of the Bill. 
It is obvious where the relation is. This Bill seeks to amend a section which could be amended to deal fully with the problem which this Bill indicates the Government realises does exist. I am pointing out that in this arena there are associated activities which also have to be dealt with and should be dealt with at this time and these must be taken into account. I have just indicated what some of them are. In fact, the extent to which the Department of Customs and Excise exercises power through its by-law provisions and through the other sections of the Act to which I have referred this afternoon is a matter which, to my mind, requires a reorganisation and a restructuring of the  2  departments - the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Trade and Industry. I think there must be a joint responsibility. The Minister who is responsible for tariffs must be responsible for the operation of the Department of Customs and Excise. 
The division of responsibility that we have seen in this House over the years is one which allows a system to grow up that is not under control. I am quite sure that the Minister for Trade and Industry is not able to say that he is aware of how the sections which this Bill seeks to amend and the other sections to which  1  have referred operate in the Department of Customs and Excise and how many decisions are given one way or how many are given another way and what value of imports from time to time is so much affected as it is affected by the exercise of power under sections of the Act. I submit that what is needed here is not just a minor amendment but a structural alteration in the way that the Government operates. It would be the policy of my Party to make that change. The Department of Customs and Excise, or the greater part of it, and the Department of Trade and Industry would come under the direction of the one Minister and would be involved in what they are in fact, namely, an operation in common to control the import of goods into this country and to determine the amount of protection given to Australian industry and the effect of that protection. 
This Bill, as I have said, seeks to amend 2 sections to deal with a specific malpractice that has been identified. The Opposition has no objection to the amendments to deal with that malpractice, although we have been given no information about the extent or size of it. That makes it somewhat more difficult for the Opposition and everyone else to judge the need for this kind of amendment. The Minister had very little to say when he introduced the Bill. He did not give us an indication of the extent to which the practice which this Bill is now expected to stop has been carried on. The Opposition approves of the Bill and supports it, but we believe that the attention of the Government to these matters has for a long period been quite inadequate. 
ns asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the oil slick recently reported in the sea off Melbourne was released from the tanker 'Cosmopolitan 11' after the oil was taken on board in Melbourne. 
Is it also a fact that the Victorian Health Department was aware of this and gave certain directions or advice about dumping the oil at sea. 
If so, what action is proposed by the Commonwealth in regard to these matters. 
ns asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that pilots in the future will only be able to obtain employment or maintain employment in the airline industry if they are  members  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. 
If so, does this mean that there would be no purpose in anyone belonging to any other organisation such as the Air Pilots Guild of Australia. 
Has the Air Pilots Guild of Australia been refused an award by the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. 
If so, and in view of relevant High Court decisions, what attitude does his Department take towards the decision of the Tribunal. 
Is the Tribunal, in its attitude to the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and employers, giving the Guild the protection to which it is entitled under the Act. 
Is he able to state whether the Air Pilots Guild of Australia is entitled to an award from the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal. 
ns asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Have pilots of Ansett Airlines of Australia refused to fly with several other pilots unless they join the Air Pilots Federation, although these pilots are already members of the Pilots Guild which is a registered union. 
If so, can he say whether the company facilitated and co-operated in this attempt to intimidate some of its employees. 
Did the relevant Tribunal refuse an award to the Guild contrary to law and principle and thereby co-operate also in this exercise in compulsory unionism. 
Has his Department tolerated and encouraged this exercise in compulsory unionism contrary to its well-known professions on the subject. 
Can he say whether the Press and even the Australian Broadcasting Commission have failed or declined to give publicity to this exercise and Ansett Airlines has failed or declined to make any explanation. 
Recently on behalf of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign I issued a call for people to join the demonstration in Melbourne on Friday 21st April. Many people will come. Some who do come will believe that North Vietnam is right in the action it has taken in Vietnam; others may not. Some will believe that the Australian alliance with America should end; others may not. Noone is bound by or committed to any one aim of that demonstration. The Australian Labor Party is not bound by or committed to the policy of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. They are 2 different organisations. I fully support the use of public streets for demonstrations. Demonstrations are an important part of the democratic process. Recently in South Australia there was an examination by a royal commis sion, the most thorough that has ever taken place in this country, in relation to demonstrations and the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Bright of the South Australian Supreme Court, pointed out by quoting  Mr Justice  Kerr in Wright v. McQualter that peaceful demonstration is an important part of the democratic process.  Mr Justice  Bright, relating that to the situation, went on to recommend . that this be recognised and that the law which, normally might prevent any kind of action being taken in this way should be administered in a way that peaceful and reasonable demonstrations should become anaccepted part of community activity. I know that the Victorian Government has accepted that royal commission report and that in both Victoria and South Australia demonstration has become an accepted part of the democratic process. This, must remain so. This right must be maintained. It can only be maintained if it is exercised, and it will be exercised in Melbourne on 21st of this month. 
It is important to realise that a ' large number of people, fair and reasonable men, in Australia believe that the North Vietnamese are right in the military action they have taken in South Vietnam. I believe and am fully convinced that the North Vietnamese are justified  in the action they have taken in South Vietnam. I think it is important for the House to hear some of the reasons why people are convinced that North Vietnam is justified in taking this action. The first reason is that Vietnam is not two countries but one. Any guilt laid on North Vietnam is based upon an argument that it has invaded another country. It has not invaded another country. Those who claim that Vietnam is 2 countries rely upon the Geneva Agreement of 1954 but that Agreement does not divide Vietnam. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who preceded me, quoted that Agreement deceitfully and wrongly, as has been the case on almost every occasion that attention has been given to this matter. Article 1 of the Agreement, partially quoted by the honourable member to suit his purposes, provides 'provisional demarcation line between 2 regrouping zones, not a boundary between 2 countries'. I repeat: Not a boundary between 2 countries. Article 6 of the Declaration says that the essential purpose of the Agreement relating to Vietnam is to settle military questions with a view to ending hostilities and that the military demarcation line is provisional and should not in any way be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary, Article 6 of the Declaration upon which this claim is based says that. This would have been apparent for years to everybody here if they had had the honesty and decency to look up that Article, to face up to what it says and to quote it. But honourable member's opposite have done none of those things. 
When it came to signing the Agreement in Geneva in 1954 the Government of the South, the Bao Dai Government, refused to sign and gave as its specific reason, which was recorded in the Agreement documents, that 'there can be no acceptance of any agreement that provided a permanent or temporary de facto or de jure partition of the national territory'. I am quoting now what was said by the Government in Saigon, the Government that honourable members opposite claim is the basis for this argument. There is no basis whatever under the Geneva Agreement for any claim that Vietnam is 2 countries. There is the strongest possible basis for a claim that it is one country, and that those who most strongly demanded that it must remain one country were members of the Government in Saigon. Then the de facto division came about as a result of American action. The Government in the South was set up by the American Government. What is now known as the Pentagon Papers shows on page 2 the following statement as a summary of those documents: 
South Vietnam is essentially the creation of the United States. 
That was the official conclusion which was drawn by officials of the United States Government and is reported on page 2 of the Pentagon Papers published by the New York Times'. Not only was South Vietnam the creation of the United States but it was built upon leaders and people from the North. The first Prime Minister, Diem, was a northerner as were most of his Government members. Thieu, the present Prime Minister, is a northerner; Ky is a northerner; most of the generals are northerners. Between 1954 and 1956 about 800,000 people were moved from the North to the South. Not only was this 10 times as large as any other movement of people from the north to the south, but also these people made up the basis of the army of South Vietnam. At all times since 1956 as much as 60 per cent of the combat units of the army of South Vietnam have been made up of northern people, and more of the leading units have been made up of people from North Vietnam. The army of South Vietnam, the army of Thieu, is critically and significantly an army of northerners. Yet honourable members opposite talk about 2 countries and about aggression from North Vietnam. Some 800,000 people were brought to the South to fight for the Americans. 
The war in Vietnam is not a war between 2 countries. It is a civil war within one country only and those fighting on both sides are inextricably made up of men from the North and men' from the South. It was this civil war into which the American invasion came after 1961. The only invasion of Vietnam is an American invasion. In February 1965 the American forces began bombing North Vietnam. They did so because they claimed that there was aggression from the North, that there had been an invasion from the north. At that time 50,000 to 60,000 American troops had already entered South Vietnam and more were on ships and on bases in Thailand and were operating against the people in North Vietnam. Over 100,000 Americans were in and around Vietnam by February 1965 and engaged in' the attack on the people of North Vietnam. How many North Vietnamese regu'lar forces were then in South Vietnam? It was stated in 1966 by  Senator Mansfield  that at that time only 400 men of the armed' forces of North Vietnam were in South Vietnam, and that figure was certified as correct by the Secretary of the Army,  Mr McNamara.  That is the official. American total of regular North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam in 1965 - 4.00  -  when 50,000 to 60,000 Americans were there. Hence when the American bombing attack began - it has extended over 4 years, using over 3 million tons of bombs and napalm, and involving the crossing of the demarcation line hundreds of times a day - there were  400  North Vietnamese in South Vietnam, according to official American estimates. 
For how long does anyone expect that people in North Vietnam are to take bombing and every other form of attack without deriving a right to strike back? The right of self defence comes in at some point when a people is under attack. People have rights in war, and one of their rights is self defence. I believe that the regular forces of North Vietnam have now derived that right of self defence against the attack made upon them by the armed forces of the United States and by the armed forces of the Government in Saigon which was set up and controlled by the United States and acting at all times as a co-ordinated part of that attack. I believe that North Vietnam derived this right because Vietnam is one country. It has never been anything else but one country. What has happened is that a civil war has developed in a country and the United States has entered it on one side. Vietnam has been under foreign attack and domination for over  100  years - from the French, the Japanese, the Chinese and the Americans. How long do people have to sustain attack and occupation by foreigners before they get some rights? I believe that the people of North Vietnam have rights because this is basically a civil war into which a foreign power - the United States - has entered. Over 3 million tons of bombs and napalm has been dropped on North Vietnam by the United States Air Force. When do people derive the right to fight back? How much are they expected to take? The point beyond which human being* can be expected to take that kind of thing has, I suggest, long since passed in the case of North Vietnam. 
Over the many years I have been in this Parliament I have had to decide questions. There are many things which I believe but which are not policy of the Australian Labor Party.They are my own beliefs and the ALP fs not responsible for them. But when I become convinced that a thing is true I will say it and I will accept the consequences. I am convinced that a vast injustice has been done to the people fighting with the forces of the Democratic Republic of North Vietnam and what is called the provisional government of South 
Vietnam - and, believing that, I will say it. I believe that American military action in Vietnam must be brought to an end and that the people of Vietnam must be allowed to determine their own future, whatever that may be. I believe that the continuation of military action in Vietnam by the American forces can do nothing but damage and devastate that country vastly in excess of any possible damage that could be done to it by any other alternative. 
At this late hour I appeal to the men on the other side of the House to have a little sense of justice and see that, if people such as those in North Vietnam and South Vietnam have battled against the most tremendous odds which have ever been put against human beings, they have battled against those odds for some strong reason. I think it is time some sense of balance came into this matter. I think it is time the people who sit on the other side of this House and who are demanding a continuation of this kind of action - and they are almost isolated in this country - weighed the consequences and the effects upon the innocent people of Vietnam. Innocent people in that country are being killed every day. For  10  years the United States has tried every conceivable alternative to win this war. All efforts have failed. They have failed because the strength of the people of Vietnam is against America in that situation. The strength of the people in Vietnam is against America because the strength of the people in Vietnam recognises that the balance of justice is on the side against which America is fighting. That is why America has failed on every occasion. Please do not try any more. Give the people a chance in peace to see whether peace can produce a better result for them. 
I detest hatred and I detest violence. I will fight violence and oppose violence in the streets of Melbourne and in Vietnam. I want that war to come to an end. Unless some recognition is made of the justice of the other side, it can never come to an end. I appeal to honourable members opposite - perhaps it is hopeless to do so - to recognise the element of justice that is on the side other than that they have been supporting, so that some kind of balance and some kind of peace can be restored to that war-racked country. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am glad to have the opportunity to resume the debate on this matter today. I regret that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who presented the paper, is not in the House or in Australia to hear what I have to say. My regret is somewhat modified by the fact that the 
Minister is very rarely ever in the House, anyhow, when the Opposition is putting its case on this matter. But I regret it. 
I am not concerned with my own benches. Honourable members on this side of the chamber are well aware of what I am going to say because they have played a full and adequate part in the formulation of the policy that I am about to announce. What I am concerned about is that the Minister who is responsible for this matter is not here, and I understand why he is not here. But I am even more concerned to note that he rarely is here. What I have to say should be answered not by a farmer - no matter how experienced he might happen to be - but by someone who knows something about secondary industry, the problems that face it and the problems that face the Tariff Board. I might say, in passing, as the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who is now leaving the chamber, has seen fit to draw my attention to the presence in the chamber of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  that it is about time that we had somebody in the portfolio of Trade and Industry who knows something about it. With all due respect to the knowledge which the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for Trade and Industry have of farming, neither is quite the perfect man to occupy the position of Minister for Trade and Industry, responsible for secondary industry. 
I think that the electors will have a chance to judge that. Perhaps the honourable member for Angas will be missing next year and he will not be able to see the changes that take place in this House. He will be pining if not wining' for a new situation. I might also say that what I will be submitting to the House today on behalf of the Opposition will require a reply, and I will look forward to hearing it from the Government. 
In its 1968-69 report the Tariff Board stated 2 things: First, that many protective duties in the tariff have never been reviewed for more than 30 years; secondly, that a comprehensive review should be made. It was apparent then that this was a state of affairs which could not be allowed to continue any longer than absolutely necessary. But nothing was done in 1968-69. Knowing that nothing had been done, the Tariff Board was even more vivid in its 1969-70 report. That year it said that large sectors of the tariff had not been reviewed and that the industries concerned still had essentially the same tariffs as those imposed for emergency reasons in the early 1930s. Not only this, but the Board went on to say that the resources available to it had been fully occupied on normal tariff revision inquiries and that additional staff had been asked for. The Board did not say when it had asked for additional staff, but it is difficult to imagine that it would have been any less than a year before that particular time. 
But what had the Government done? The Tariff Board said that the Public Service Board had recommended the employment of additional staff in June 1970, but the Tariff Board went on to say that the recommendation had not at that time been submitted to the Executive Council by the Minister for Trade and Industry, and that the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry had said that the matter raised important policy questions which he would discuss with the Minister for Trade and Industry at the earliest opportunity. Now, the Tariff Board said that large sectors of the tariff had never been looked at for over 30 years, that its staff was fully taken up in normal tariff revision, that it had asked for more staff, that the Public Service Board had accepted the request but that the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry considered that important policy questions were involved and he would discuss the matter with the Minister for Trade and Industry not then, not soon, but at the earliest opportunity. 
I ask the Minister: What important policy questions were involved? How did it become a matter of policy to decide whether the Tariff Board should have more staff when large sectors of the tariff had not been examined for 30 years and when its staff was fully taken up on normal inquiries? How did that become a matter of policy? I charge the Minister and others with deliberately delaying the provision of additional staff for the Tariff Board and with deliberately delaying the appointment of additional members of the Tariff Board. 
I say the evidence is that the present Minister for Trade and Industry and bis predecessor have deliberately allowed the Tariff Board to remain understaffed and in a kind of hiatus, not knowing what it should do or how it should do it. 
It is not clear from the Tariff Board's reports or from the sketchy statements which the Minister for Trade and Industry has made from time to time what was done. The only conclusion that can be drawn from what the Minister has said is that he has deliberately tried to keep the House in a position where it is given the least possible amount of information about what is happening in this hidden held of tariff administration. Even yesterday I was given a document which purported to be the statement which the Minister for Trade and Industry was to make on the subject before the House. But I find that the actual statement he made was another one - one about twice the length of the statement that I had been given earlier in the day. But even the second statement was one of only a few hundred words. It says nothing. It is part of the veil of secrecy and inertia that the Minister holds up in front of his Department and of the Department of Customs and Excise. Here in this matter alone is evidence, for all those who can see, of the inefficiency and delay that is caused by the division of power between the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the Minister for Trade and Industry, and of the need for reconstruction of these 2 departments. 
The Tariff Board had gone as fur as public servants could ever be expected to go both in 1968-69 and 1969-70 to say that the Government knew that large sectors of the tariff had not been looked at for 30 years and that the Board did not have the staff even to begin to work let alone finish it even in the period of 20 years that had been mentioned that it might take. In those 2 years the Tariff Board had gone as far as a public servant could go to say that the Ministers concerned and the Government were responsible for a dereliction of duty and that they were obstructing the Board in its effort to get more staff and the Public Service Board in recommending more staff. What has happened about staff for the Tariff Board? No-one can be sure because the 
Minister for Trade and Industry has said nothing unless he has been pressed, and then he has given no information by means of which the question can be answered. 
But we do know that in the 1970-71 Tariff Board report 2 things were stated. First the Board said that during the year an industry economics branch has been established to provide the more rigorous and comprehensive studies needed for the purposes of making better reports. What had the Board been doing about those studies in the years prior to 1970 and 1971? We do not know anything about that. The second matter stated by the Board in its 1970-7.1 report was that  Mr Cossar,  one of its members, said that he was concerned about the use or proposed use of temporary staff for post-hearing analysis work. So apparently in 1970 and 1971 the Board was still in a position to have to rely upon temporary staff in a very important field. Further to that, the problem had been created of the Board having to use research staff, and there was concern in the industry that material of a confidential nature may be obtained by them. At the end of the 1970-71 report  Mr Dudley  and  Mr Hempel  had to emphasise that: 'they support steps taken to improve the quality of advice which the Board is able to give the Government'. Again the Board is saying: Do something, do something'. 
There can be little doubt that in 1971 the Tariff Board remained a very disturbed and unhappy body. What does it have to do to move the Government? The position of the Tariff Board is so serious that I believe there may well be resignations from it in the near future. But what now does the Government propose to do? It proposes to appoint 2 more members to the Board. There still remain the problems that I have already outlined. There are large sectors of the tariff which have not been looked at for 30 years and the Board has enough staff only for norma] inquiries, or perhaps a little more. Now the Minister for Trade and Industry tells us that preparation has to be made for a lot of additional work; the Board has to examine matters arising out of general and preferential rates where those rates are different from those applying before. There is the reference to cover 1,000 items. We do not know their size. We know nothing about those 1,000 items. 
Then there are the comprehensive trade negotiations in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, those arising out of trade objectives with the enlarged European Economic Community, with the United States, Japan and  others,  and of course those problems arising out of the termination of the United Kingdom- Australia trade agreement. 
Not only is much of this work obviously beyond what the Tariff Board has considered, or could have anticipated when it was appealing for more staff - and the extent of the work cannot be anticipated even now - but in some large areas of this work there will be an urgency that does not apply to many normal tariff inquiries. The Minister at last admitted in his speech that it has become apparent that unless further steps are taken the review - that is the comprehensive review proposed by the Tariff Board 5 years ago and not yet started - will not be completed for many years. And so the Minister proposes to appoint 2 new members to the Board. What will be the result? The Minister says it will mean now that because of this the Board will be able to complete its review in 6 years. It was 'many years' before; now it is to be 6 years. How many was 'many'? Some people thought it was 20 years; but now it is to be 6 years. 
What the Government was warned about 5 years ago it has now dealt with by action that will allow the job, which has not even started yet, to be completed in 6 years. Action then has to be taken after that 6 years. I refer now to those newspapers and economists who today welcomed the statement yesterday by the Minister for Trade and Industry as an important contribution to McMahon's new policy to deal with inflation and bring about more efficiency in Australia. What will they say now when they read the Minister's speech and find out that he estimates that what can be done can be commenced in 6 years' time after the comprehensive review has been undertaken. 
There is a more serious consideration than that in Australian tariff making. We know that large sectors of Australian protected industry have not been examined for 30 years. The Government has known of this for 5 years. It should have known of it for even longer than that but now it is proposing action which will result in a report to a government in 6 years' time. I want to make 2 things clear. First, the Australian Labor Party will ensure that any Australian industry that is efficient on objective, measurable Australian standards will receive sufficient protection to be able to operate and grow. Secondly, the Australian Labor Party will accept no recommendation for a tariff revision unless warning is given, unless alternative employment is available or has been made available and unless income is available in disemployment benefit to those disemployed until they can obtain comparable employment. 
The Australian Labor Party will not allow an industry to be closed down where it is needed for employment in a particular area and, in certain circumstances, will consider compensation to its owners if it has to be curtailed or closed down to meet the needs of public policy. But an Australian Labor Party government will not allow large sectors of industry which have not been examined for 30 years and which may have excessive tariff rates to protect them to go on unexamined. I have outlined the delay, the dilatoriness and the obstruction of which the Government has been guilty during the last 5 or 6 years in respect of that situation. The Government is nationally culpable when large sectors of industry have not been looked at for 30 years. There are estimates that as much as $300m of excess and unnecessary costs are in Australian industry as a result of only part of the excess tariff structure. 
I emphasise that this may not have resulted in excess profits, wages or other claims on industry but only in excess prices caused not by excess profits or wages but only by lower productivity. It has been noticed that Australia is second only to Japan in the amount of resources being invested in fixed capital equipment. In Japan the percentage is 31.3, in Australia 27.1, in Germany 25.6, in Canada 24.6 and in other comparable countries the percentage ranges down to 16.5 for the United States. But in productivity Australia is ninth on the table. In Japan the percentage is 12.2, in Germany 5.1 and in Australia only 2.5 per annum. It may well be that these sectors of Australian industry could continue to employ the same number of people, make the same rate of profits or pa even higher wages and profits and charge lower prices. The difference could be made up by higher productivity and it may be that excess tariff protection is the cause, or an important cause, of lower productivity. We must find out. It is nationally culpable for a government to leave large sectors of industry unexamined for a period of 30 years and to propose now a course of action which will give the Government a report on those sectors of industry only at the end of 6 years after having delayed the appointment of members to the Tariff Board and members of the Tariff Board's staff for at least 2 years. Whatever is the position, the Tariff Board must be equipped to carry out these inquiries in less than 6 years. If tariffs are excessive, they must be lowered, but they will not be lowered unless full and adequate protection is made for workers in the industries affected and for others. 
There are 2 things that must not go on any longer. One is the inertia of the Government of the past few years. The other is the economic jungle of industrial upheavals for which no provision has been made or is at hand. Perhaps it has been good enough in Australia to retain both government inertia and the economic jungle when, as for years the 'London Times' reminded us, 'policy has never been relevant in the election of a government in Australia for many years'. But that is no longer the case. Policy is now relevant to the election of a government in Australia, and the people of Australia are ready for a change. 
ns asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
. What steps have been taken to satisfy recent requests by academic historians that legislation be introduced to ensure (a) that public records are regularly and systematically deposited in the Commonwealth Archives and (b) that officers of the Commonwealth Archives are all professionally trained in archival work. 
What was the length of the access programme delay, from the time of public request to the time of access scrutiny, for the release of departmental records outside the 30 year restricted period as at 1st February 1971. 
What steps have been taken to ensure that research work financed from public funds is not being seriously impeded by long delays in the negotiation, indexing and clearance of public records. 
Recently in Australia several persons have been killed, many have been threatened and attacked, and a number of bombs have been exploded. It is not, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said, that we are concerned with violence that might happen. We are concerned in this motion with violence that has happened and violence that is happening. I submit to the House - I will produce evidence for it - that this was done by a few members of a Croatian extremist group and that some members of the Australian Government have tolerated and encouraged these groups in such a way that this violence was made more likely. Some members of the Australian Government have gone to functions where this group has held up photographs of its inspiration - Ante Pavelic, the leader of the fascist racist government in Croatia from 1941 to 1944. That is what has happened in the cases that were mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Government has been willing to be associated with this, and the Minister has not said  single word opposing or condemning these extremist Croatian groups. Not one word. He has avoided that completely as his predecessors avoided it constantly for 10 years. He is avoiding it now. The Croatian extremists - perhaps there are no more than 100 of them in Australia - are racists and are motivated by hatred. Let us be sure what this Croatian movement is. First of all it is a movement dedicated to the independent government of Croatia. This is an aim with which I can sympathise and which I understand. But under the influence of 100 or so extremists it has become not only a movement for an independent government but for a government modelled on the Pavelic regime of 1941 to 1944, and inspired by racist aims. It was violently against Serbs, Jews and gypsies. 
It celebrates 10th April 1941 not only in its clubs but also in some churches and here I want to refer to the remark made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What I said on television the other day was that in Victoria a Croation Catholic church had been set up in Clifton Hill. This has rarely happened anywhere. In this church on 10th April every year a religious service is held to celebrate 10th April 1941, the setting up of the Pavelic fascist racist regime which destroyed perhaps 800,000 people in Croatia. I said on television that that was a bad thing for a Catholic church in Australia to be doing and that it was encouraging the extremists in this Croatian movement who I believe are responsible for these acts of violence. I made no general attack but a very precise attack. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs comes in here and gives his own interpretation of that as though it was something I had said and then he attacks that interpretation. I said then precisely what I have just said. It is true and I stand by it. 
I never mentioned the word 'hierarchy'. What is 10th April 1941? It is the day on which German Nazi troops entered Croatia and on which the Pavelic regime was set up. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, it was a brutal, callous administration which killed many tens of thousands of Serbs, Jews and others. But the Minister has said nothing about that. He still leaves it unmentioned as it has been left unmentioned for 10 years. To show the nature of the Pavelic government I produce now a publication called "This is Artukovic'. Artukovic was the leader of the Ustashi, Croatia's equivalent of the Nazi SS. This publication shows the way and a little of the extent of the vicious killings of the Pavelic regime. It shows in action identifiable photographs of men who are accepted by the Croatian organisations as leaders in Australia now. It shows people whose pictures appear on walls of the premises of this extremist Croatian organisation in Australia. This publication was declared a prohibited import by the Australian customs officials in 1965 and the decision was confirmed by the Minister for Customs and Excise. He would say no doubt that this publication emphasises sex, violence and crime. That is the usual expression. It does not show sex but it does show the extent of the violence and crime. These extremist Croatian organisations celebrate 10th April and many other days and their celebrations have  been attended by supporters of this Government who have thereby identified themselves with these organisations. 
This . document is prohibited but I will table it together with a letter written in 1965 stating that it was seized. I hope the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  will have enough interest to read it and see what is involved. The Australian people in fact should see those documents. 
Very well. I am not worried about formalities. I want these documents inspected so that honourable members opposite can see what they are supporting because some of them do not know. One of these documents has been prohibited from entry into Australia and I suggest that that decision is part of this Government's attitude of trying to tolerate this movement and of trying to hide from the Australian people what this movement really is. If the same attitude had been taken to Hitler's atrocities we would have heard nothing of the concentration camps. It is essential that these things be known, particularly by Australian officials and Ministers who tolerate this movement. They have tolerated it for reasons of political expediency. I doubt whether anyone here is consciously and deliberately racist, but Government supporters are willing to tolerate them for political expediency because they want to win the votes of extreme right wing migrant organisations and others in Australia which are prepared to support them. After the defeat of the Croatian government many of its supporters and those who had taken part in it went to other parts of the world. Quite a number came to Australia and the Croatian independent movement in Australia has become identified with the Pavelic regime as a result of the work of these extremists. It is time that this identification was recognised; it is time that this identification was broken. I say to the Government that it is time that it decided what attitude it will take in regard to this matter. Will it continue as it has in the past? The Minister for Foreign Affairs who spoke before me has been Attorney-General twice but he has never mentioned the bombings during any term of office he has had. He has never mentioned a word of criticism of these Croatian organisations. He and other leading figures in the Government have gone to functions of these organisations or they have tolerated other members of the Government Parties going and have identified themselves with these organisations. There has been not one word against them. 
What have these organisations done? In Australia since 1966 there have been 8 very serious bomb attacks. Let us look at each of them. On 17th November 1966 a parcel bomb addressed to  Mr Marian  Jurevic exploded in the Melbourne General Post Office. Who could have sent that bomb?  Mr Jurevic  was a critic of the Croation extremist movements and their association with Pavelic in particular. He had been threatened and attacked by Croats before. I would not ask anyone to conclude on the evidence of one bomb where it come from. On 1st January 1967 a bomb exploded at the Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney. The Yugoslav Consulate was a target of the Croatian extremist movement. The second bomb was on target and it was a target of the Croatian extremist movement. The third bomb exploded at the Richmond Town Hall on 2nd December 1967 and severely damanged a boy's hand. It exploded at a function celebrating Yugoslavia's national day. Yugoslavia's national day was the target of the extremist movement. The third bomb was on target. The fourth bomb exploded on 9th June 1969 at the Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney, which is a target of the Croatian extremist movement. The fourth bomb was on target. The fifth bomb exploded on 2nd January 1970 at the Serbian Church in Canberra and shortly after 2 Croats were arrested near the church in possession of explosives. The Serbian Church is a target of the Croation extremist movement and most of those killed by the Pavelic regime, which is its model, were Serbs. The fifth bomb was on target. On 12th October 1970 the sixth bomb exploded at the Yugoslav Consulate in Melbourne. The Yugoslav Consulate is a target of the Croation extremist movement. The sixth bomb was on target. The seventh bomb exploded at a migrant information centre of the ANZ bank in Melbourne on 6th April 1972 at a time when there was an exhibition of costumes associated with Yugoslavia. This was a target of the Croatian extremist movement and the seventh bomb was on target. The eighth bomb exploded on 6th April 1972 at a housing commission flat occuped by  Mr Marian  Jurevic and his family, to whom the first bomb had been sent through the post but which exploded in the General Post Office in Melbourne.  Mr Jurevic  is a critic and opponent of the Croatian extremist movement. The eighth bomb was on target. 
How many more bombs have to be on target before the Attorney-General is prepared even to mention one of them? How many more bombs have to be on target before Government supporters will be prevented from attending functions of those organisations in respect of which there is a high degree of probability that they are responsible for these bombs. 
I have said that on 1st January 1967 a bomb exploded at the Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney and that on 9th June 1969 a second one did so. On 30th November 1968 a large group of Croats were at the Consulate attempting to enter it by force. A little later  Mr William  McMahon, the Prime Minister, was seen there and was asked what he thought of the incident. What he said was not a keyhole job. It was a humble statement, it was reported in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'. In the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'  Mr McMahon  was reported as saying: 'They are a good bunch'. He did not say that they were a gay bunch; I do not want to mis represent him. He said: They are a good bunch. Their cause is good. We. must encourage their independence'. 
That was said outside the Yugoslav Consulate in Sydney on 30th November 1968 and reported in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'. The Prime Minister of this country said: They are a good bunch. Their cause is good. We must encourage their independence.' When he says that he is encouraging everything they do. He is encouraging their extremist action in every way, and they claim in their publications that he is encouraging them. It is not just mild Croatian independence to which the Prime Minister refers when he says their cause is good, because their cause includes overthrowing by force the Government of Yugoslavia and their cause includes standing over Yugoslavs in this country by force and by threat. Their cause includes using the 8 bombs which have been used and which I have detailed in this speech this morning. That is what the Prime Minister is supporting when he says that their cause is good, and that is what in fact they take him to say when he says those things. 
I support violence by nobody. I oppose violence wherever I see it. I am asking members of this Parliament to see this matter as it is. Violence in Australia today is coming from very few people. They are in the main members of this extreme Croatian movement, and the number in this country is possibly no more than 100. But instead of clearly opposing this violence and clearly stating that it must not go on, the Prime Minister has been prepared to say that these people have a cause which is good. Other members on the Government side have been prepared to attend their functions. Even at this late hour the Minister who represents the Attorney-General, who is responsible for the law that deals with violence, has not been prepared to say one word against this Croation extremist movement. He has been prepared to make in his speech even now only general statements opposing violence. I know that this matter has not been taken seriously by the police because they have looked at it up to now as a political matter. I know that it is being taken more seriously now, in particular by the State, police in Victoria. I know that action has been taken and that 2 arrests have been made in the last 7 days - arrests of Croats and Croats in possession of explosives. I want this Government to give up the manner of supporting right wing racism and extremism in this country in order to curry votes from those extremist groups in Australia - I want action taken against them for violence will become worse than it is. Now is the time to act. 
ns asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What additional security measures have been taken recently at the Prime Minister's Lodge. 
What has been the cost of these additional security measures. 
Is lt intended to add to the security measures being taken; if so, what will be the cost. 
Does the Attorney-General or his advisers have any idea of the identity of any persons who may be considered to have endangered security at the Prime Minister's Lodge. 
ns asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Department will be undertaking the actual clearance of Cabinet records as distinct from the arrangement of access to Cabinet records. 
What steps have been taken to expedite the release of Cabinet record's scattered in departmental correspondence prior to 1939 and requested by publicly financed researchers. 
I ask either the Minister for Immigration or the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that a man described as a businessman well known in Croatian circles in Melbourne was in Canada recently when his Australian passport was seized by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and he was issued with a document which allowed him only to return to Australia? Will he say why the Royal Canadian Mounted Police took this reported action?  If  the Minister is not aware of the objection, will he find out and inform the House of what it is? If he is aware of the objection, will he say whether his Government was aware of it when this man left Australia and, if so, why he was allowed to proceed on his journey with an Australian passport? 
I have listened with care to the speech made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The Opposition approves of this development, and we note with interest that even in detail it accords with the position taken by the Opposition 5 or 6 years ago in respect of both the need to explore the realities of trade with the central European countries and the Soviet Union and the need to build into such trade the new negotiating principles and advisory bodies to take advantage of the kind of trade that the central European countries and the Soviet Union represent. This is not normal business activity. A number of characteristics are present in these countries. First of all there is a central body or bodies with which negotiations have to be undertaken. The disadvantage for Australia is that Australian businessmen are not accustomed to dealing in this way with such bodies. The advantage, of course, is that once contact is made with such bodies, as distinct from what happens in other countries, one can enter through these organisations completely into trade with the whole country. It is not just one or two large companies, as it is in a capitalist country; it is the whole economy. 
This approach, which has been set out in the Minister's speech, recognises the existence of this situation and opens very considerable opportunities and avenues for trade which the Opposition outlined in detail at least 5 or 6 years ago. The only regret that the Opposition has is that the initiative was not taken earlier because of an atmosphere of political prejudice, which seems to have prevailed in and around the Government, in which it was difficult for the Government to undertake trade with countries like Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union and still to dispense the kind of foreign policy that it required. This repre sented a conflict which, I am glad to say, has gradually but definitely been overcome and will increasingly be overcome. The problem that remains is not so much the problem of obtaining markets for Australian exports but of finding room in the Australian economy for the kind of imports that have to match those exports. The Minister mentioned a number of large scale industrial commodities that the Czechoslovakians will be interested in exporting to Australia. This will have to be done on a contracting or tendering basis. So far the countries with centralised economies - called socialist or communist countries - have had very little success in Australia in negotiating for those tenders. I cannot omit mentioning that I consider some of the reasons for that lack of success lie in the political prejudice that T have already mentioned. lt has often been said that Australian government instrumentalities and other similar bodies are not anxious to accept or are not comfortable in accepting tenders from the Soviet Union or from Czechoslovakia because these countries are not experienced in working in the Australian environment. If their tender happens to be the lowest, as it very often if not invariably is, that tender cannot be accepted because the Australian party does not feel confident that they would be able to meet the normal requirements and understand the associated supply problems. This may be a factor which is fairly general in this country. The Government has the responsibility for taking a lead. Unless this kind of trade with the countries called communist or socialist can become more normal and can be accepted as part; of the reality of the modern world - much more so than it has been so far in this country - the potential in these agreements, such as the one the Minister has spoken about today, will not be realised. 
I think it is time that we realised the nature, of the world in which we live. The conditions in Europe are vastly different from what they seem to be here. The relations between the socialist or communist countries on the one hand and the capitalist countries on the other in western Europe are now normalised and there is not the atmosphere that exists in Australia. Here is a very considerable opportunity for improvement in Australia's trade relations. It is not in conflict in any way with realistic political considerations. Any idea of conflict has to be removed from the field. This is a very important step in that direction. It is welcomed by the Opposition. It is the kind of development that must take place. I congratulate the Minister not only on what one might call the principles mentioned in his statement but also on the substantial details which seem to have been built into it already. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This Bill gives effect to the proposals to increase the size of the Tariff Board by the appointment of 2 additional members. I said much about this proposal on 13th April when the House debated the progressive review of the tariffs under a ministerial statement. I do not intend to cover that ground again. Now we have reached the stage of considering legislation and the Opposition welcomes this Bill for the appointment of 2 additional Tariff Board members. There is one thing wrong with it: it should have been introduced 2 or 3 years ago- but that is not bad for this Government. 
Of course, this Bill does very little to help develop the system that is needed for effective tariff-making in Australia. Tariffmaking is not just an economic matter, not just a matter of statistics or econometrics. It is a social process and the most important one available to the national Government in Australia for the development of Australian industry and, thereby, social life. Tariff protected industry is about 70 per cent or more of all Australian industry, and much of the rest of employment and, therefore, of our way of life, depends directly and indirectly upon this 70 per cent or more of industry that is protected. 
What is done within this vital section of the economic system will set standards, patterns and even customs for economic life, and for much of social life as well. It will determine the environmental conditions in which we live. I want to stress that point because this is more than a matter of just economics and statistics. It is a matter of building an environment that we are concerned with when we are concerned with tariffs, because with tariffs we are concerned with the development of industry, the pattern and the type it will be. It is time some radically new concepts were introduced into the field of tariff-making, for it is through this that Australian industry - and especially industrial relations and relations between government and industry and workers- can be advanced both in efficiency and in social democracy. Unless emphasis is laid on social democracy, there can be little advance in efficiency or productivity. 
Given the proportion of the gross national product that is used for capital in Australia, Australia's productivity is one of the lowest among comparable countries in the world. I do not believe that this is because of a lack of capital or a lack of up-to-date capital. I do not believe that this is because of lack of intelligence. I do not believe it is because of a lack of hard work. People can and do work hard in Australia, but I think it is wise to note that hard work is not usually associated with high productivity. I think the low productivity in Australia, despite the favourable conditions, is the result of a social pattern of relations in industry in which conflict has been unduly institutionalised. Tariffmaking is not just an economic matter, not just a matter of statistics and money. Tariff-making is a process of social engineering and development. At present both the Tariff Board and its staff and advisers are far too strictly economists. Economists have been educated or, better still, trained in a discipline that has become narrow and unreal. It is not the economics of Adam Smith or Alfred Marshall; it is the economics of numbers, curves and equations, and if a thing cannot be measured it cannot be taken into account at all. This simply means that the most vital and important things are completely left out. We certainly must ascertain and know everything that can be measured accurately. We also must know those things that can be measured only approximately. But, much more importantly, we must know the difference between them. We must know the many things that cannot be measured at all. 
The making and unmaking of tariffs in Australia has always been far too much a narrow economic matter. It is even more so now than in the past. The making of tariffs is an important matter in the making of society in Australia. Society is far more than an economic affair, despite the fact that economics is allowed to dominate far too much of it. The Labor movement and, indeed, the people in Australia were well aware that Australia was a country favoured bv nature and circumstances, lt became the ideal of the Australian people to establish in Australia a standard that was not to be determined solely or mainly by economic or social conditions in the old world. Australia was fortunate enough to be a new country and the Australian people believed that they could establish here standards that were better, not because we were better people but because we had far more favourable opportunities. In a significant sense the Australian people have succeeded in establishing those standards. 
In the past, protection of Australian industry was a crucial and critical factor in the establishment of those standards, and I believe that today it is a crucial and critical factor in the maintenance of those standards. But in some things Australian standards are not high. In some things standards are higher in other countries, and we in Australia should be more discriminating and more ready to learn than we are. But we have established a material standard, with many good social consequences, which has justified the ideal of seeking to do so. Our starting point in making tariffs should be that we must be determined not only to maintain that standard but also to improve it. I believe that any approach to the question of making tariffs, by the Tariff Board or anyone else, which starts from anywhere else is misguided. Our starting point in making tariffs should be that we must be determined not only to maintain the standard that has been established in Australia but also to improve it. We can do so. I emphasise that our capacity as a nation to maintain and improve that standard is greater today than ever before. If we are to hold to our determination to maintain and advance our material standard and to accentuate its social advance, then we cannot allow the price of goods on our market to be significantly determined or influenced merely by the price of goods produced elsewhere at standards far lower than our own. At no stage in the past would we have succeeded in establishing either our material standard, such as it is, or our population if we had been willing to do so. At present we cannot maintain our standard or our population or, as another way of putting it, full employment if we simply have regard to that factor. 
One of the vital factors necessary ro maintain and advance our standards &gt;s protection of the standards we have. This must be the starting point for any acceptable trade and tariff policy in this country, and it is certainly the starting point for the policy of the Australian Labor Party. Furthermore, no party in this Parliament can do other than start from the principle that it will never consent to the disemployment of any Australian worker unless it is satisfied at least that a number of conditions exist. 1 shall point out now some of those conditions. The first is that any such worker will have at least a living wage in any change from one job to another. The existing unemployment pittance, called a benefit, is completely unacceptable as an income for a worker moving from one job to another as a result of the application of public policy through a decision of the Tariff Board because an industry is held to be insufficiently efficient or economic. 
That is right. It is completely unacceptable and nobody on this side of the House will give any consideration to accepting a policy concerned with the public interest if it has that consequence to the employed worker. 
The second condition is that any such worker must be offered an effective course of training to improve his productivity and earning capacity. Fitted into changes that must come about as a result of changes in tariffs and their application must be an effective system of retraining in this country because hardly anyone who is disemployed as a result of a decision of this kind could not be improved considerably in efficiency and earning capacity if a sensible scheme were available. But here in 1972 we have nothing like it. We have a kind of unemployment pittance which, as the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  interjected a moment ago, is about one-third of the unemployment benefit paid in Canada. We have no effective retraining scheme for a situation of this kind, lt is totally unacceptable in 1972. Nobody on this side of the House is prepared to accept recommendations by the Tariff Board for a reduction in tariff which will disemploy perhaps hundreds of people, unless we have those 2 conditions met. 
A third condition is that no reduction of tariff can be accepted unless it is preceded by a thorough and adequate inquiry. I say in passing that an inquiry by the Special Advisory Authority is not a thorough and adequate inquiry. It is a makeshift, ramshackle, horse-and-buggy provision that is not adequate for a temporary purpose. I believe that  Sir Frank  Meere, within the scope of what he has to do, submits some extremely well worded and, within the limits of them, effective reports. But this kind of procedure is used far too frequently to justify such an inadequate inquiry as a basis of a decision which can be widespread in its effect. There must be a thorough and adequate inquiry. By 'an adequate inquiry' 1 do not mean one limited only to economic facts. Industry, employment and productivity are social matters. They have a social relationship, and facts other than bare economic facts must be ascertained and fully taken into account. 
At the lowest level, of course, there are external economies and diseconomies. Sometimes an industry, especially if it is one which has reached a high degree of concentration, will benefit very considerably from something which is done outside the industry and for which it pays nothing at all. On the other hand, there can be significant external economies both of an existing situation and especially of any change in tariffs. 
A clear case of external diseconomies are the effects of pollution and economic contamination. The costs of pollution and economic contamination must be met. They are not being met now, and they must be met by the industry concerned alone or with assistance from the State, from the community or from the Government. We must build into the kind of research that is being done a procedure which will result in recommendations being made to deal with the question of pollution and economic contamination by industries that we are protecting. At the present time we have no regard to this. In effect, we allow them to be protected and to pollute freely. What should be done about this has to be reported by the body that inquires to ascertain whether tariff protection should be given, and that body must report what is necessary to deal with such things as pollution, economic contamination and other external diseconomies. 
In order to do this the inquiry body and its fact-finding research sections must be more than a body of economists and statisticians. What I would call the industrial research bureau must have economists and statisticians, but it also must have sociologists, ecologists and behavioural scientists, and it must be environmental. Their job is not just to find out how people can work in industry, but to find out how people can live with industry. Unless far more is done along these lines Australian productivity will continue to be low on comparable world standards, because it is the absence of many of those things that are giving us the low productivity record we now have. Some countries achieve better productivity records because wages are low or because compulsion can be more effectively used than it is here. But we are caught between 2 worlds. The worker in Australia is sufficiently independent to have won higher wages and to be somewhat invulnerable to compulsion, but we have not yet worked out a way, as they have in some countries and in some industries in Australia, to be able to do without compulsion. The more industry relies upon compulsion, the lower is its productivity. 
The Industrial Research Bureau of the Department of Secondary Industry would be staffed by people not of a narrow econometric range of training but of a comprehensive range of education that would allow the protection commission or industrial development commission, whatever it may be called subsequently, and the Government to be given facts and advice that would allow industry to be treated as a valuable social process and not just a place for making money. The productivity problem will remain with us for a long time; it will remain with us until we can change our attitude in this way and make this change effective. 
Yet another significant factor in the question as to who is to carry costs is the one that arises when people lose their jobs, and I have mentioned this already. We must guarantee that such people will have a living wage very little different from that to which they have been accustomed in work. I personally, and I am sure the Australian Labor Party, would never accept any report from the Tariff Board or anywhere else that would put people out of work unless at least these provisions exist. One point that deserves emphasis here is that it is most important that we make efficiency and improvement of productivity in Australian industry a top priority objective. We can be sure that if we are unable to do this it is not only our living standards and full employment but our capacity to conquer poverty and create a better society that will come to nothing. We need efficiency and we cannot get it without change. Change is the law of life. 
But one other point is vital: Those who see that tariff changes will help very much in getting better efficiency and productivity and with maintaining our living standards must realise that the old semi-laissez faire method of trying to reduce tariffs will not succeed. If the old semi-laissez faire method is used - and by that I mean the method that all Australian governments have used up to now - then the resistance, and the justified resistance, to tariff reduction will be so great that tariff reductions will not be brought about or, if they are, it will be only at great cost and with unnecessary difficulties. Tariff reductions will be essential in Australia for many reasons. Perhaps the most apparent reason and one given most emphasis is that discussed by the  Chairman  of the Board,  Mr Rattigan  - perhaps with greater precision of accuracy than the evidence justifies, but generally in a correct manner. 
I think that 2 more points ought to be made. The first is that the Government has been most uncomfortable at the prospects of a comprehensive tariff review by the Tariff Board because it feels sure that in some cases there would be recommendations for tariff reductions, and the Government itself does not know how to handle the resistances that would come if those recommendations are put into effect. I believe that for that reason there has been a lot of dilatoriness about this comprehensive review. Secondly, the Board believes that the tariff review would increase the rate of growth and solve other problems. I say to the Tariff Board and to the Government: If that review is done as it has been done in the past, and with the limits of today's assumptions and practices, it will make little difference in the next 10 years to economic growth and to the solution of these other problems. 
It will not be enough to recommend reduced tariffs. We must have the social, industrial and government machinery that can handle the situation that results from such a policy. We do not have it today, and we cannot afford to wait much longer. Unless we have this machinery the resistances to tariff reductions will be so great that we will not be able to get them in the interests of what is economic and efficient. 1 stress that as 1 have stressed it now for several years. It is only in recent times that I have begun to notice in the speeches of the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board any reference at all to such things as retraining. After so many years I have not begun to notice them anywhere at all in speeches of Ministers or honourable members opposite. 
Yes, of course. The scheme has to be one that is thoroughly acceptable to those involved. I know that the honourable member is aware of the resistances that would be given to this, but these resistances have to be overcome. It is our responsibility, when we are considering the making of tariffs, to set up ways and means of overcoming these resistances. This, I think, is not the end of it. I have given emphasis for a long time now to what the Tariff Board has been saying, that there are wide areas of industry where tariffs have not been reviewed for over 40 years and where those tariffs are excessive. I stress that the fault lies with the Government for nol having, until now, brought about the machinery necessary to tackle a comprehensive review in less than 20 years, and now it is down to 6 years. But having said that, that is not the end of it. lt is correct to emphasise the extent of excess and unused protection. Unneeded protection would be a better term, for one is never sure whether the Tariff Board and others are talking about unused protection or protection that is unnecessary but is nevertheless used, and that is even worse. 
It is correct to have a comprehensive review, and it is correct to equip the Board so that the review can be completed within a reasonable time. But I submit that that has not been done yet. The present appointment of 2 additional members to the Tariff Board does not achieve that result. Even if the membership of the 
Tariff Board is increased still further the staff of the Board below the level that is necessary to undertake that task is not there. In my opinion, it cannot be done. But there are other matters that need emhasis equally as great, and it is on this point that I wish to conclude. 
Important sections of Australian industry are now, and will be in the future, subject to intense competition from overseas, and existing protection will not allow them to survive. Apart from the goods that may emerge from socialist or communist countries, to which capitalist cost of production has no relevance at all, but which can be negotiagted by agreements - like the one with Czechoslovakia, which was announced today by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  so that things can be kept under control - there are the goods which more and more will come from countries in which wages are low but in which America and Japan have already introduced the most up to date equipment; and capitalists always seek the lowest wages. When techniques are able to use the low wages of Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Vietnam - one of the important purposes of fighting the war in Indo China always has been to bring Japanese and American capital together with low wage workers - the result is one with which Australian industry cannot ever compete. At present several Australian industries are directly affected, namely, textiles, footwear, plastic products, apparel and a part of metal manufacture. The part of these industries affected would have had a value of production in 1970 of not less than S 1,400m, or about one-fifth of total secondary industry in Australia. 
Just as it is necessary to take action to see that excessive and unused protection does not continue, it is equally necessary to warn the nation that large and important sections of industry probably will not be able to continue operations beyond the next 2 or 3 years with existing levels of protection. But it is essential that much of this industry be preserved. The belief that large sectors of industry such as these could be allowed to disappear and still allow full employment and alternative employment to be maintained in Australia is a dangerously naive view. It must not be accepted. It will not be accepted by the 
Australian Labor Party as a government. Australian industry today faces a new era. lt is as important in its development as the epoch making one of the 1870s, when industry was established or that of the first decade of this century when industry was extended. Australian industry faces today vast new opportunities and threats equally great. We need a national policy to require Australian industry to take full advantage of the opportunities and to protect it from the threats. We do not today have that policy; nor do we have the means to apply it. We cannot afford to wait much longer. 
In relation to the third reading of this Bill I think it is to be regretted that no-one on behalf of the Government - neither the Minister nor anyone else - has made any reply to the speeches that have been made tonight. Quite a number of significant questions have been asked, and quite a number of significant criticisms have been made; and quite a number of statements have been made by honourable members on both sides of the House that this Bill is not going to do something that is adequate. Yet we have had no reply from the Government in any way. Indeed, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has not even been present in the House. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who has a good deal to do with this Bill, has been in and out of the House, but it has been in the charge, presumably, of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  One must remark that this is a very odd arrangement, and I think it is a most unsatisfactory way of dealing with Bills of this sort. 
ns asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken to make available to researchers the full set of records collected by  Sir Frederick  Shedden relating to Australian defence outside the 30 year restricted period, in view of the liberalised rules for access to Commonwealth records. 
I want briefly to draw the attention of the House to an incident which occurred this morning when you,  Mr Speaker,  notified the House that on opening a letter you found that it contained certain material in relation to a circular advertising a publication containing an article by Germaine Greer, and you decided that it should not be distributed by the House attendants. Several things disturbed me about this. It seems to be in conflict with a letter that you,  Mr Speaker,  wrote to me two or three weeks ago after I had drawn your attention to the fact that some material from a person called Russell in Queensland which had been circulated through the House attendants, in my opinion contained some objectionable racial propaganda. I received a letter from you,  Sir, saying  that it was not your function to interfere with this correspeondence and it was in order for it to be distributed. It then came to me as a considerable surprise to find that, after opening a letter which referred to certain sexual matters, you decided that it should not be distributed. I wondered at the contrast between your standard in relation to racial propaganda from  Mr Russell  and your standard on some reference to sex in relation to Germaine Greer. I wondered what standard of censorship was in fact being applied to corespondence being distributed through the House system and whether it was desirable to have such a system of censorship at all. 
Are members to assume that in the future if you open, a letter that is to be distributed through the House system and you find it to be objectionable, you will then take action to ensure that it is returned to the person who brought it here? Do you have assistance in this? Will you arrange to have matters drawn to your attention by members of your staff, or just what system will you use if this precedent is followed? I find the whole thing disturbing. It seems to me that we have a system of distribution and . we take whatever is brought to it, within reason or not. I think that some kind of. censorship by yourself, I say with all due respect, will prove unworkable. At any rate, I believe that it has proved unworkable in this case for it is my recollection that there was no interference with the matter that I brought to your attention. Yet in this one in relation to Germaine Greer there is undue sensitivity, I suppose, to matters pf sex which one does not always find in relation to racist propaganda. I find this very worrying and disturbing. 
ns asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
ls it the practice of his Department to provide information to the Department of Labour and National Service concerning applicants for Homes Savings Grants. 
Was an application for a Homes Savings Grant made by a resident of Ferntree Gully, Victoria, and stamped with the reference V83804/G24 and date 10th November 1971. 
Did a  Mr Block  of the Department of Labour and National- Service ask for information about the applicant; if so. for what purpose. 
Was he given information and was a note to this effect made by a  Mr K.  Bowden at the foot of a copy of a letter to the applicant dated 18th December 1971. 
Was  Mr Bowden's  note dated 21st January 1972 and did it state that  Mr Block  of the Department of Labour and National Service had called and was given particulars of the applicant. 
ls this normal procedure in his Department. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour and: National Service. I understand that recently the Minister or his Department announced that 7,775 or a similar number of men 'have been denied the benefit of the ballot'. Is this correct? To what period does that figure relate? Does it mean that 7,775, or some similar number of men have failed to register or have committed some other offence against the National Service Act and were not prosecuted? If so, why were they not prosecuted? If they were not prosecuted, what does 'denied the benefit of the ballot' mean? What did happen to these men? If they were not prosecuted were others who committed similar offences prosecuted? Why has there been a difference? 
The importance that the Government is now forced to give this subject has been revealed by the entry of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  into a debate on a statement which normally does not receive the attention of any other Minister but the. one that delivers it. The entry rather desperately and assertively of the Minister for Foreign Affairs into this debate shows what has happened in the last few months. The Government knows that it has to defend itself on this subject and is not missing an opportunity to do so in an exaggerated manner. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has exaggerated very considerably the opposition that he claims his Government has made to the conduct of tests by the French in the Pacific. He went back to 1958, 1959 and 1963 and said that Australia had said something about the French tests. I was waiting for him to tell us the exact words that Australia used in those years but I noticed that, significantly, the Minister did not do so. It was not until a United Nations resolution quite recently that he even quoted a word that any of his predecessors or any of the preceding Governments had said in criticism of the French tests. And then the words that he did use were noi Australia's words; they were the words contained in a United Nations resolution which Australia did not move but presumably Australia voted for it. 
The significance of that resolution is that it expressed opposition to tests in all environments by all States, not by France at all. The attitude that has been taken by people who support resolutions of that kind, including this present Government, is that they will not protest against the testing of nuclear weapons by one nation but only against all. Only if all stop can you expect one to stop is the principle that has been underlying resolutions of that kind since the very beginning, and that was the principle underlying this resolution, too. The Government could have said, and would have said, to the French authorities: 'We do not expect you to stop until all stop', and this resolution is perfectly consistent with that position. Indeed, when I spoke to the Diplomatic Counsellor to the  President,  M. Bernard, in the Elysee Palace, he told me that the Australian Government had always been sympathetic and always had shown an understanding of the French policy to develop a nuclear weapon. I repeat: The diplomatic adviser to the  President  of France told me that the Australian Government had always been sympathetic and always had shown understanding towards the French policy to develop a nuclear weapon. Apparently there is to be no interjection in reply to that statement. 
The other point made by the Minister was: What have we got to say about the People's Republic of China? I can speak for the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and myself on this subject. Ever since the Chinese first showed any signs of developing a nuclear weapon both the honourable member for Reid and I have consistently opposed this. 
Everywhere. I have made dozens of speeches in which I have opposed this. 
I made one last Sunday. 
Yes, I did. 
I made one last Sunday in Sydney. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for La Trobe may take part in the debate at a later stage. 
If the honourable member would take only a little bit more trouble to be fair to people instead of always having his mind made up at the beginning he would find these things out. 
You do not seek the kind of information that disproves your theories. 
Well I certainly have not stopped China from doing it and neither has the Minister. I will allow other people to judge how effective they have been. I would be quite happy to go to China to tell the Chinese the same thing. I have been to France to tell the French and I am quite happy to tell the honourable member who has interjected and his Government to keep their hands off nuclear weapons too, just as I would be prepared to tell the Chinese. I have told the French and I would be happy to go to China and do it there. 
There are a couple of particular points in this statement that I want to draw attention to for just a minute. The honourable member for Reid pointed out to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  what he calls the 'conservative view' stated on page 4 of this statement where these words appear: 
They have considered it prudent to make the working assumption that even down to the lowest radiation dose, the risk of producing particular biological effects (e.g. cancer or hereditary effects) in humans is directly proportional to dose, without a minimum or threshold dose at which no effect occurs. 
He calls that a 'conservative principle'. I think it is a radical principle because very few conservatives accept it. Most of those people who put forward this view are taking a radical view of the subject. I am glad that this appears in the statement as the position that the Governmen accepts. Presumably it is a position that the National Radiation Advisory Committee accepts too. 
That is what I am saying. 
I have not read the report yet. The point that the honourable member for Reid made was that the French do not accept this point of view. I spent  2i  hours with others in the French Foreign 
Ministry discussing this and other questions and the French do not accept this point of view. The French take the view that there is a minimum level below which there is no danger. They claim that anything that has happened, both now and before, in the conduct of tests in the Pacific by the French is so minimal that it is below the threshold level. The honourable member for Reid asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts what he had done or what anyone on behalf of the Australian Government had done to try to persuade the French to accept the Australian Government's view. The Minister has not said whether we have done anything about that but sooner or later- 
Well, he has not said. 
The letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had nothing to do with this question. I am talking about whether we have done anything to persuade the French to accept our view that there is no threshold. Do you understand that? 
Right. Therefore it is still open for the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for the Environment to reply. I will be putting the matter on notice to give them a more specific chance to reply before long. The only other point- 1 make is that nowhere in the Minister's statement - I have not read the report yet - is there any reference to any damage that might have been done in other parts of the Pacific by fallout from the French tests. The Minister referred only to Australia as though that is all we have to be concerned with. 
In an Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme a few days go, or perhaps several weeks ago, Professor Titterton, who is  a  member of that Committee, said that 'we' know the results of monitoring in other parts of the Pacific. He said that 'we' also know the tonnage of the tests. I presume that by 'we' he means himself and other scientists. He may mean the Committee. If, as Professor Titterton has said, we know the results of monitoring in other parts of the Pacific and the size of the French weapons - as I say, I have not read the report - does the report indicate and is the Minister concerned with the effect of these explosions in any other part of the Pacific, or are we concerned only with Australia? 
Does the Minister intend at any subsequent time, by making a statement or in any other way, to indicate the effects of the tests in other parts of the Pacific and the results of the monitoring there, which are presumably known to Professor Titterton? 
We will look into that further. Professor Titterton said that we have the information. We can explore that question further a little later. 
He did. 
He said specifically that 'we' had been given the information. He said that the French have been very co-operative in this. 
Let us look at that later on. There will be plenty of time to look at it. I want the Minister to look at this question. If we have available information about what is happening in other parts of the Pacific I see no reason why it should not be stated. The only other question I want to look at very briefly is the second of those I mentioned. What kind of action did we take? The Minister went a long way to attack the cutting off of trade. 
He quoted the statement of  Mr Marshall  from New Zealand that we should take every practical step. What are these practical steps? Are they simply what this Government has done - to get the Australian ambassador in France to send a letter to the French  President  and to support a resolution of the United Nations which has nothing to do with French tests - or ate there some other practical steps? It seems to me that one of the most practical steps that could be taken is to realise that there are now governments in the Pacific, such as that in Fiji, that were once not opposed to French tests. When I first went to Fiji in 1967 to speak against the French tests I was allowed to go into Fiji only on a visa which stipulated that I could not speak in public. At that stage the Fijian Government was not opposed to French tests, but now of course the Fijian Government is very strongly opposed to French tests, as are the governments of New Zealand,the Philippines, Chile, Peru and a number of the other Andean countries. 
It seems to me that the action that ought to be taken by the Australian Government is to consult these other governments to see whether a common policy of action calculated to stop French tests in the Pacific in future can be arrived at so that the highest level of action agreeable to all would be made effective. I challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take this initiative and to say something about what he thinks of this initiative. In his own terms, I think it would be a practical step to try to talk to the Fijians and others and say: 'What practical steps do you consider we can all agree on so that we can be more effective in our opposition to the French tests?' I think that opposition can very well be effective. It is hard for me to know - presumably Professor Titterton and the Committee know more about this, and perhaps the Minister does - what the French actually proposed to do in their tests in the Pacific recently. The only information I have is from newspaper reports which state that there were to be  3  or  5  tests. The French have conducted only  2  or  3  tests at the most. They have cut their tests short. They have not carried out the full programme. It seemsto me probable that they have only fired triggers and that they have not used anuclear explosion at all. If this is so I think mere is a lot to be said for the argument that the resistance has had its effect. While I was in Paris recently, the French Minister for Defence went to Washington to try to get certain information from the American Government that the French would otherwise have to test to get. It seems to me that this is the time when realistic and practical steps might be taken by this Government in a way it has never done before, because if these steps are taken now thee may well be no further tests by the French in the Pacific. 1 think that would be well worth achieving. 
I seek leave to make a very brief statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
A little while ago my attitude to French nuclear tests was compared to that towards the Chinese and the Russians. In recent years I have written two or three letters to the Chinese Foreign Minister and two or three letters to the Russian Foreign Minister protesting against and arguing against the conduct of those nations in nuclear testing. I have spoken at least three or four times in that vein to the Soviet Ambassador in Australia and I have made many public speeches on the subject. I have seen at least two or three, and probably more, reports of those speeches in the Press in the last 10 years. 
This Bill was introduced by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  with a very brief comment in which he explained that its purpose was to give effect to the existing bounty on the production of agricultural tractors until the end of 1972 unless an earlier date for cessation is specified by proclamation. Prior to this Bill the bounty was to cease after the 30th July 1972. So, the purpose of this Bill merely is to extend the payment of bounty until the end of the year. Undoubtedly, whilst this bounty may be continued beyond the end of 1972 the reason for the legislation is that so far the Tariff Board report on the subject has not been received by the Government and the Minister. This in itself is somewhat surprising because the Board has had the matter in hand for some time. 
Yes. The Minister gave no indication when the Board would complete its report although it has had this reference since 14th October 1970. It is not a very difficult matter. The referral was made on 14th October 1970 and we still have not received the report and the Minister has not given us any indication when the report will be available. 
I shall be surprised if it is available before the end of this year. Perhaps the present Government will have to extend the bounty by similar legislation before the year is out if it is still in office. However, that remains to be seen. I think this provision of a bounty on the production of agricultural tractors is a very important question and one that connects in a very clear and practical way the developments of secondary industry and primary industry. I should like the Minister to tell the House, if he can before this debate is finished, when he expects the report to be available and when he can expect to be guided by the Tariff Board in our future consideration of this matter. 
I think this delay illustrates a number of things. First, the obvious time the Tariff Board, in present circumstances, takes to deal with relatively simple matters like this - since October 1970. Obviously the Tariff Board is not capable of dealing expeditiously with matters of this kind. This has been the position for a number of years, so much so that the Board itself has had to report on more than one occasion that large sectors of industry have not been examined for 30 or 40 years. In those sectors of industry there may be tariffs considerably in excess of what industry requires to operate economically and efficiently. Yet still we have no reason to believe that the situation has been changed. This is completely indefeasible for any government. The inordinate delay that has already taken place in this matter is a further example of the situation. 
But I hope that the delay will allow the Board to examine adequately some aspects of the production and sale of tractors which are not normally  reported upon. The production of agricultural tractors in Australia normally is considered from the point of view of the economies and efficiencies of the manufacturer in Western Australia whose operations can be considered only within the limits of his plant, the size of the market and the economies that that implies. But whether a tractor produced in Australia can be sold competitively or is being sold at as low a price as it might be sold is also affected by the distribution system and the finance that is available. I hope that the Board, in the time that it will have at its disposal before it finishes its report, will give some attention to these matters, including the wholesale and retail system by means of which the tractor finds its way on to the land of the primary producer, and that it will be able to have a look at the finance, the rate of interest and the terms of repayment which are available to him. If one is to consider the economics efficiency and of the industry and the price at which Australian produced tractors under bounty are available to the Australian farmer, surely these matters are completely relevant to the investigations of the Board. 
I would be prepared to wager, if I did such a thing, that up to this point in August 1972 the Board has paid no attention whatever to those matters. I imagine that as the Board has not completed its report - it is not just a matter of having it printed - the implications in the present position are that the Board is still continuing its inquiries. So, it might have room at this late stage to include in its inquiries some of the matters to which I have just referred. It might be able to make available to the House, the industry and the purchasers of the agricultural tractors concerned some relevant information on this subject. With those remarks I leave the subject because the purpose of the Opposition is not to oppose this Bill but to try to assist the Government and the Board to do a little more thoroughly a job which, I think it has been apparent for a long time, needs doing. 
I ask the Treasurer: Has it been drawn to his attention that a question was asked of the Minister for 
Works in the Senate in which the questioner wanted to know whether a large firm of Sydney stockbrokers had made $2.5m from what is called a bond washing operation; that the firm had been notified that the sum would be assessed for taxation; that one of the directors had telephoned the Prime Minister's office for an appointment; and that subsequently the firm was informed that the sum would not be assessed? Did the Treasurer write a letter to the senator concerned saying that the assessment had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation but that no information could be given about it? I now ask the Treasurer: Why was the assessment made by the Commissioner of Taxation, and does he propose to leave it at that? 
What the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said about the speech of the Minister for Education and 
Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in respect to that matter is true of all those matters, Everything the Minister has said is his own invention. He has his own strawman made for the purpose - so that he can appear to knock it down. Instead of being the Minister for Education and Science he should be the Minister for unscientific thinking and miseducation. I think most people certainly outside this House if not inside it are utterly tired of this method in which one member gets up on one side of the House and implies that everything to do with the Government is perfect and everything to do with the Opposition is false. Perhaps it is done even by members on this side of the House.  1  think that the people of this country are thoroughly tired of this kind of politics. We have had the best example of that that I have heard of for some time from the Minister for Education and Science. 1 want to talk about economics on this Budget as far as possible and not the kind of politics we have just had. I think that Australia is not a country where very radical changes are wanted by the  people and therefore are not possible for any government to introduce. We can be sure in the future that there will be a rising refusal by the people to accept pollution, environmental damage and waste. We can be equally sure that the rapid economic growth to which we have aspired is not forever possible and that there will be a significant reassessment in the future of the whole value of economic growth. But the main question for Australia and the Australian people now is economic. The main problems are, first, inflation and, secondly, unemployment. Most people are concerned first with having a job - not in most cases because they like work but because they need the money. Secondly, they are concerned both now and in the future that the money they earn will not lose its value. They do not want inflation. 
Since 1968, under the existing Government, the Australian people have had 18.9 per cent of inflation. Every dollar they have earned or saved in those mere 5 years has lost 20 per cent of its value. Of every $5 earned, $1 has gone in that short period. Very often unemployment is closely related to inflation and often it is the direct result of it. Hence, inflation can be considered, I think, as the main problem. The Government believes that inflation is caused alone or mainly by wage increases. We hear that tune played over and over again. But I think the evidence suggests that this is not so. Wage increases rarely initiate or cause inflation. No wage earner can increase his wages just when he chooses. It is not a matter of just putting his hand into the till. To get an increase in wages a wage earner or his union has to ask for an increase. When he asks for an increase he has to make out a case; he has to show that the cost of living has increased, that there has been a rise in his work value, that productivity has increased or that he can get more pay elsewhere. Normally, no wage increase is given unless the boss considers that he can afford it or an arbitration authority considers that an industry can afford it. 
Generally, wage increases are not independent or initiating economic factors or causes: they depend upon other economic factors and are generally determined by those economic factors. Certainly, once granted wage increases may increase demand or be passed on into prices, especially because of the practices of modern industry and the restrictive practices that are adopted by it. In this sense wage increases will contribute to inflation. But what would otherwise be the result? The result would be that the wage earner would not get a wage increase but, nevertheless, he would have to face increases in the cost of living. No government can expect wage earners not to attempt to get wage increases if inflation is continuing at anything like the rate of 18.9 per cent at which it has been continuing since 1968. No government can expect wage earners not to attempt to get a wage increase when, over a period of 5 years, every $5 which they have earned has become $4, and Si has been lost. 
Inflated results from expenditure in excess of what the economy can meet by production at constant prices. Expenditure originates from the system that supplies money to the economy through the banking system. In Australia today there are 3 banking systems. We have the traditional trading bank system, the finance companies and overseas capital. The inflow of overseas capital is the third banking system. The table of figures relating to the amount of money that has been lent by these 3 banking systems - and these are official figures to which I will be referring - shows that the total amount lent on instalment credit by finance companies, trading banks and capital inflow has risen in each of the years since 1965, as a percentage of gross national expenditure, as follows: 1965, 27.6 per cent; 1966, 28.4 per cent; 1967, 27.7 per cent; 1968, 31.2 per cent; 1969, 31.2 per cent; 1970, 31.3 per cent; and 1971, 33.8 per cent. Not only are these percentages significantly too high; no economy can afford that kind of money inflow without inflation resulting. The amount lent on instalment credit is rising as a percentage of the gross national expenditure. There has been a rise in money supply, as a percentage of the gross national expenditure, from 27.6 per cent to 33.8 per cent in a period of 6 years. There is the initiating and originating cause of inflation, and someting must be done about it if inflation is to be halted. 
It has now been recognised for 40 years that unless the money supply is regulated to the capacity of the economy to absorb it inflation will occur. This was the basic lesson that has come out of all the revolution since Keynes; every conservative economist in the country has said that. I understand that many years ago governments in Australia had adopted that as one of the principles of policy. But looking at the table to which I have just referred relating to money supply we see a little more of what has been the cause of inflation in Australia. The tables show that trading bank lending seems to have been regulated. It has risen each year, on the year before, by no more than 12.7 per cent, and that happened in 1968. In 3 of the other years the increase was nearly 9 per cent. Each year there has been an increase of about 9 per cent in the first banking system because it is regulated with reasonable relationship to the needs of the economy. 
The amount lent by the second banking system, that is, on instalment credit by finance companies, has risen in each of the years since 1968 as follows: 1968, 15.3 per cent; 1969. 15 per cent; 1970, 19.4 per cent; and 1971, 19.5 per cent - more than twice the increase which occurred in the trading bank area. Not only has there been a far more rapid increase in the lending of money on instalment credit by the finance companies, not only has the lending by the second and unregulated banking system risen so much in relation to the first banking system, but in 1971 the second banking system was allowed to lend $4,822m, an amount almost as much as that lent by the first banking system, which was $4,839m. I expect that in 1972 the second banking system will pass the first banking system and become Australia's biggest banking system. That ought to make the supporters of the Australian Country Party, who have to buy so much of their machinery and plant on hire purchase, very happy indeed. 
What is the significance of this second banking system? It is that the system is unregulated. Hence, the amount of money which the system puts into the economy can rise much above that which the economy can manage without inflation occurring. Secondly, the second banking system charges an average rate of interest which is at least twice as high as that charged by the first banking system. It is not only the regulation of the first banking system and the non-regulation of the second banking system that has caused this shift in Australia from the first banking system to the second banking system so that the second banking system is now as large as the first banking system and will pass it this year; it pays money lenders in the country, including trading banks, to be regulated because they do not want to lend money at an interest rate of 7 per cent if they can lend it at an interest rate of 15 per cent. 
So these people move into the second banking system, and this Government has presided over the move that has allowed $4,822m to be lent each year at an average rate of interest of 15 per cent as against a rate that would have been half that if the economy had been properly regulated. Surely this has something to do with inflation. Surely the average citizen will not be taken in by the Government's claim that it is the people who cause inflation because of their small increases in wages. The Government says that the people are the cause of inflation because they have been seeking wage and salary increases, but the Government has presided over this system which has caused such a diversion on money into high interest lending and has shifted the whole basis of the Australian banking system. 
Reference to the table to which 1 have referred - and it contains official figures - shows what has happened in the third banking system, foreign money coming from outside Australia. First of all, the third banking system is erratic and irregular. The amount of money coming into the third banking system from the inflow of foreign capital fell by 20 per cent in 1966- 67, rose by 109 per cent in 1967-68, fell by 27 per cent in 1969-"0 and rose by 59.2 per cent in 1970-71. Little can be done to regulate the inflow of foreign capital when it falls, but an increase of 109 per cent in one year, in 1968, on a total capital inflow of $53 lm, and an increase of 59.2 per cent in 1971, on a total capital inflow of $9 10m, are far too great for the Australian economy to absorb in any one year and must have had a great deal to do with the inflation that occurred in those years. . 
The link between money supplied from finance companies, trading banks and foreign sources can bo seen if we look at the record of inflation in Australia. Here I refer to the table containing official figures for the consumer price index, which is available to everybody. Reference to this table shows that since 1952-53 the index rose by no more than 4 per cent - and that was in only one year - and that in most years it rose by not much, more than 2 per cent. Very often the rise was around 1.5 per cent a year, until 1968 The days of inflation that the Government is talking so much about and for which it blames the wage and salary earner, the average citizen, began in 1968. In 1969-70 the consumer price index rose by 3.4 per cent, in 1970-71 by 5.2 per cent and in 1971-72 by 7.6 per cent. The years from 1968 to 1971 are the years of inflation. Reference to the money supply figures shows that in 1968 money from instalment credit and finance companies rose by 15.3 per cent, in 1969 by 15 per cent, in 1970 by 19.4 per cent and in 1971 by 19.5 per cent. It must be remembered that this is high interest money with an average interest rate of at least 15 per cent. 
It was in 1969, the very year inflation began, that the foreign capital inflow rose by nearly $600m or 109 per cent and it was in 1971, when inflation became a more serious problem, that foreign capital inflow rose by $500m or 59.2 per cent. It is a fair conclusion that the way finance company money has risen since 1968 - in 2 years by over 15 per cent and in another 2 years by over 19 per cent - associated with a foreign capital inflow in 1968 of nearly $600m. that caused the inflation for which the Government now seeks to blame the wage and salary earners. And it was the increased foreign capital inflow of $500m in 1971 which pushed inflation to its highest point since World War II. This is the basic economic problem which any government has to tackle if it is to deal with inflation. The present Government has never been concerned to do this, although it has been the elementary rule of all those experts who have considered these matters for over 40 years that to prevent inflation the money supply must be regulated. It is the mushrooming of the high interest charging finance companies - the second banking system - and the vast increases in foreign capital inflow - the third banking system - which are the initiating causes of inflation in this country. When a government has done what it is necessary to do in order to regulate these creators of money it may earn some right to tell the wage earner what he should do about wage increases. 
It is not much good turning to a Budget that increases only consumption expenditure when we have a policy supervised by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  which is creating a lack of confidence throughout industry. Industry understands that it is the policy of the Government to give the Tariff Board its head to go on a search and destroy mission and to cut down Australian industry where the Tariff Board considers it to be unecoromic and inefficient. That is what the Tariff Board has stated it will do and industry believes that nothing the Government has done will prevent that from occurring. I give one example of this. The year before last the Tariff Board brought down a recommendation in relation to the footwear industry. This recommendation was adopted by the Government and since then employment in the industry has fallen from 18,000 to 12,000 people and continues to fall. Today the Tariff Board is working as hard as it can on more than 1,000 items with the object in most cases of bringing in tariff reductions. The Minister responsible is the Minister for Trade and Industry, and he is the Minister who is responsible for this search and destroy mission of the Tariff Board among Australian industry. 
I say as the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Trade that it will be Labor's policy to safeguard the employment of Australian workers and to ensure that no tariff reduction will be accepted unless at least 2 conditions are met. The first condition is that the proposed tariff reduction is the result of a plan for the development of Australian industry in which every relevant factor is taken into account, and not just the narrow doctrinaire factors that the Tariff Board considers, and as a result of which industry will be able to plan 2, 3 or 5 years ahead or whatever period is necessary. No Labor government will accept any recommendation unless it meets that condition. The second condition is that no Australian worker will be disemployed on the pittance of the present unemployment benefit. I know personally, from having them in my office and from correspondence with them, dozens of men who worked in the footwear industry and who are among those 6,000 who. lost their jobs because of the Minister's policy. They have come to my office at a time' when they were trying to live on the miserable unemployment pittance. No Labor government will put any' worker in that position and I challenge the Minister to Say what he intends to do about it. 
No Australian worker will be disemployed by any Labor government. When a change has to take place because we are moving resources to more economic and efficient places, retraining will be made available to those people affected and compensation will be paid to them so that the cost of the shift of resources will not fall as it does now and as it always has done upon those directly affected. For a future Labor government I say that there will be a stop order on tariff reductions until we are satisfied that Australian industry can be properly planned and developed and until we are satisfied that the change is essential for greater efficiency and economy of operation without the costs involved falling as they do at present and as they have done throughout the years on those directly affected. It is time we got rid of this horse and buggy method of running the economy and brought the system into the 20th century. 
1 would like to continue the debate on this matter at this stage. I regret that the Government, with all its resources, has found it impossible to give the Opposition more than a few minutes notice before introducing this matter. I have not had time to study it. From what I have seen and read in the very glib and uninformative speech of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  I am quite disturbed at the prospects for the textile industry in Australia, particularly in regard to knitted shirts, outer garments and woven shirts - very disturbed indeed. I had to say earlier this afternoon that I thought that the Government was being completely irresponsible in regard to adequate protection of Australian industry. It is playing politics with the subject. It wants to give the impression, because of isolated remarks made from time to time by honourable members on this side of the House that we of the Opposition are not primarily concerned to retain and develop Australian industry. This is playing politics badly. I would suggest that the way in which this proposal has been introduced into the House might have been deliberate in that respect. I am very disquieted as a result of- 
It is a very strange thing that when the Minister who has just been speaking, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  was introducing tariff proposals, he was always able to give notice. 
Yes, I have had notice of the proposals. But this is the first time for a long time that we have seen the Minister for Trade and Industry performing this task. It is rather strange that because the Minister for Trade and Industry introduces the proposal we are faced with the situation about- which I have complained. 
No. I know that there are other honourable members on the Opposition side who want to debate this matter now. If the Government had had the courtesy and consideration to give us some notice we might have been prepared to consider it, but in view of its flat presentation at this stage, just after the second reading debate on the Budget has concluded, no. There are a number of things that we want to say and we want to say them now. The Government has now told us that the proposals of the Tariff Board, which would have had a very serious impact upon the industry, were being held at bay because of discussions with countries so that some co-operative and constructive arrangements might be arrived at to prevent excessive imports. But the Minister has told us that although the discussions have taken place, no satisfactory arrangements have been arrived at with other countries. That possibility has been put aside, for the time being at any rate. 
The Minister went on to tell us that the Government had examined alternative arrangements to voluntary restraint as this is now no longer considered to be a possibility. He therefore has introduced tariff quotas on knitted shirts, outer garments and woven shirts for the period up to 30th June 1974. 
No-one would object to those quotas because it seems to me to be quite apparent that if the textile industry in Australia is to survive we must have quotas. Rather than consider this as a temporary thing, I think the Government should be prepared to ask the Tariff Board to consider without delay whether this measure of a temporary nature should be considered as a permanent measure. 
The second thing I have to say about this proposal for quotas is that the proposal may be totally inadequate. I do not know whether it will be adequate from reading the Minister's speech and I have the feeling that the Minister does not know. The Minister said: 
The tariff quotas will be established on the basis of the value of imports during 1971- 72. . . . 
The imports of 1971-72 have done enough damage already. Therefore if the quotas are to be on the 1971-72 basis we can consider that the damage that has been done this year will be continued. But that is not all. The Minister also said that the Government proposes to  provide for: 
. growth in 1972-73 of 20 per cent in the case of knitted goods and 2i per cent in die case of woven shirts. Part of the growth will be set aside for new importers. Tariff quotas in 1973-74 will be increased again by  li  per cent in the case of knitwear and  1  per cent in the case of woven shirts. 
Who has made this decision? Is it a decision of the Tariff Board or is the Government pushing aside its virtuous Tariff Board? Where has the Government achieved the particular result that the Minister has decided to adopt as revealed in that paragraph of his speech? There is another point that the Minister revealed in his speech. These long term rates that he was talking about were recommended by the Tariff Board and the Government accepted them in the expectation that satisfactory voluntary restraints would be achieved. But satisfactory voluntary restraints have not been achieved. 
I think that at the moment it is very important for the Government to realise that throughout this nation we have secondary industry that employs directly about  lb  million people and upon which another  2i  million or 3 million people are indirectly dependent. This industry is in a state of great uncertainty about Government policy. Investment programmes are not being proceeded with. The kind of economic recovery that the Government pretends in this Budget to regard as essential will not occur in those circumstances. 
How can the Government reiterate its firm intention that the more efficient sectors of of the Australian knitted shirts and woven shirts industry should continue on a viable basis? If this test is applied, how many firms will go out of existence? The Minister gave us no indication of the sectors which, he thinks, are the most efficient. This proposition assumes that there will be some which are not efficient and which will be put aside in the course of the next 12 months. We should know which ones are in the more efficient sector, how many will be affected and how many people will be unemployed as a result of this. I notice the Minister for Customs and Excise is speaking to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  Yes, try to get him in to say something if you can. He was always good for a word or two on tariffs. He is always good for a word or  two in  defence  of  removing tariffs  or  reducing them, and in defence  of  the Tariff Board.  Try  to  fill in for a  desperate situation which has been created by your own complete absence of a policy on this matter. 
The more efficient sectors of Australian industry  are  expected  to survive. A very  considerable swathe  of  Australian industry  can well be cut out by  this approach. So I think that this is a matter that should not be allowed to pass this day unless we make clear that this kind of policy, this searchanddestroy mission, as I described it earlier, that the Government and the Tariff Board together are undertaking in their attitude to Australian industry, will not be  one that is consistent with the proper and  balanced economic development of this nation. 
The Government we are told is taking an active part in current international moves that could affect the long term position of the textile industry. I have no doubt that that. The international, long term position of the textile industry will be that these will not be over in Australia. 
So I express clearly and without equivocation the concern of the Australian textile industry. Recently a deputation approached the Prime Minister, who for the time being is the Right Honourable William McMahon, C.H., M.P. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister met a deputation from the Textile and Apparel and Retailed Industries Conference and little satisfaction was given to it. The Minister has told us nothing about what that deputation told him. I guarantee that everything I have said tonight allowing  for the very  short notice that we had that this measure was coming on, was stated to the Minister by the deputation. Australian industry has no confidence in this Government and the kind  of  measure that the Minister has introduced tonight will reduce still further the confidence that Australian manufacturing industry might still have in the Government. 
In the history of this nation and this Parliament every man who has appeared on the side now represented by the Government - the Liberal-Country Party side, the United Australia Party side, the Nationalist Party side - back to the early part of this century has always opposed every move that has ever been made for shorter hours or for higher wages. When it was first proposed in the national Parliament to introduce an age pension of 10 shillings a week, people on that side opposed that pension. Their slogan has always been that lt is not the time. Now, as on every other occasion, they say that it is not the time to prepare for the introduction of a shorter working week, of a 35-hour week. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  today made his statement on the 35-hour week solely in the belief that it would help his very desperate Government in its election campaign. Government supporters believe that if they can create an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty in the community about the consequences of a 35-hour week they will help to get themselves elected. They do not mind how they distort the evidence. They do not mind how false an impression is given as long as it will help them to win the election. The' Prime Minister told us that a gallup poll showed that the people do not support a 35-hour week and therefore it is intolerable. What does that logic prove about the Prime Minister, who was shown by a gallup poll to have the approval of only 29 per cent of the people questioned? Does that prove that the Prime Minister is intolerable and ought to be rejected, following his argument that the 35-hour week ought to be rejected because it did not receive majority approval in a gallup poll? From beginning to end it is a political exercise. 
The Prime Minister and the Right Honourable the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who has just finished speaking, have put forward a completely misleading and false story to the House. I would not say that they know it to be false. I would not say that the Prime Minister knows that what he said about the policy of the Labor Party or the ACTU is false. If he were almost anyone else I would be inclined to think that be would know, but I do not think that of the Prime Minister. What has been said by these  2  senior Ministers with some full sense of responsibility is that the Australian Labor Party would thrust the 35-hour week upon the people. Everything the Prime Minister has said assumes that it would happen in a few weeks. This fantastic cost estimate of from  82,500m  to $3,000m assumes that it would be done in less than a year. Everything that they have said assumes that the Labor Party and the ACTU have some kind of plan to bring in a 35-hour week by one sudden quick action. They know that is falsa or at least I would expect them to know, but that does not concern them. 
The thing that most disgusts me about politics is how people continually assert what they know to be wrong in the face of the evidence purely for the political gain they imagine that they will get out of it. I have not seen a better example of this than the Right Honourable the Minister fo: Trade and Industry who in asserting that the Labor Party would thrust a 35-hou; week upon the people knows that it is contrary to Labor Party policy and contrary to possibility and that it is also contrary to the policy of the ACTU. 
In order that the Government can face the evidence I will give it now. The policy o.' the Australian Labor Party is obtainable for everybody to see. It is on page 23 of the Party's 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' as approved at the 1971 Launceston Conference. This is the policy that 2 Ministers have just said will thrust a 35- hour week onto the people in less than a year. The Labor Party cannot legislate for a 35-hour week except for those who have already come pretty close to this under the present Government, such as Commonwealth public servants who for years have had a 36i-hour week. If this Government is so much opposed to a 35-hour week for workers in the oil industry and the power industry why did it consent to a 36-hour week for Commonwealth public servants? This is part of the humbug of the situation. 
The Australian Labor Party is to support demands in and before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. First of all. the decision depends upon the Commission. The Commission has to be convinced. That is the first brake on the situation. The Commission has to be convinced. Therefore the granting of a 35-hour week would not be an immediate thing. It is not thrusting the 35-week upon the people, as the Right Honourable the Minister for Trade and Industry tried to mislead the House and everyone else into believing. It would mean putting a case to the Arbitration Commission. The Commission would make the decision, not  a  Labor Party government. That submission would be put to the Commission under these provisions: 
provision for increased leisure time for employees in a manner which is appropriate to a particular industry and which will not affect the objective of ensuring that there is an increase in real wage and salary standards. These provisions may include - 
a 4, 4i or 5 day working week, 
a 9 day working fortnight, 
a  35 hour working week, according to the circumstances of an industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant factors. The ultimate aim is to secure a 35 hour week in circumstances which will ensure fair treatment of all sections of the community; 
The 35-hour week is an ultimate aim. The policy of the Labor Party is that it should be introduced by the Arbitration Commission in each industry according to the circumstances of each industry and when the Commission considers that an industry can afford it. Now that is the position that has been so distorted before the House for political reasons this afternoon by 2 right honourable gentlemen. What does this term 'Right Honourable' mean? Is the word 'honourable' simply a convention? Is it a meaningless word? Does the word honourable' have some meaning when the Prime Minister can come into the House and so distort something that is available for his examination? I would not suggest that be even looks at the facts; you only have to listen to his speeches to be convinced about that. But the facts are there if he wants them. For political reasons he either knows them and ignores them or he has not even gone to the trouble of finding out. 
That is the position of the Australian Labor Party. The position of the Australian Council of Trade Unions also has a clarity about it that the 2 speakers on the other side who preceded me have completely ignored. The introduction of shorter working hours in this country has been a very long and arduous process. A 48-hour week was introduced in 1856 and if the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Industry had been in this House at that time they would have opposed its introduction for the stonemasons in Victoria. In 1856 it would not have been the time, according to them; but it did not become general until 50 years later, and it took another 30 years to reduce the working week from 48 hours to 44. It took 11 years to reduce the working week from 44 hours to 40 and members of this Government opposed it every inch of the way. 
They and their political fathers and their political grandfathers opposed it every inch of the way and it was never the time, just as it is not the time now. It took 11 years to get it down from 44 hours to 40. 
The first decision the ACTU made about a 35-hour week was not made recently. It was in 1963 - 9 years ago. Yet the Government says that Labor will thrust it upon the people. The ACTU Congress decided in 1963 - 9 years ago - to begin a campaign for a 35-hour week in 2 industries, the coal industry and the power industry. In 1965 the ACTU Congress confirmed that there should be a campaign. In 1967 and in 1969 it spoke in terms of a general campaign. It did not mean a general campaign to get it in all forms of industry at the same time; it meant a general campaign among all workers to get it wherever it could be obtained. Yet that will be misinterpreted no doubt by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  if he follows the notes that he already has prepared. The ACTU decisions in 1963, 1965, 1967 and 1969 were to try to get workers involved in a general campaign to get a 35-hour week wherever it could be procured according to the conditions of that industry and what was possible in it. In June 1971 - 8 years after the campaign started - a 35-hour week was given by the arbitration authorities in New South Wales to the coal miners in that State. Who is going to be worried about thrusting it upon the workers? 
On 23rd February 1971 the ACTU Executive resolved it's policy on the 35- hour week. Nobody has gone to the trouble, including the Right Honourable the Prime Minister and the Right Honourable the Minister for Trade and Industry, of telling us what ACTU policy is before they attacked it. They immediately gave their own distorted version of it and then attacked it. This is ACTU policy: 
To call meetings of unions employed in the power industry and the oil industry for the purpose of devising and approving appropriate methods of achieving reduced working hours in these industries. 
That is, the power industry and the oil industry. This concentration upon 2 industries is ACTU policy. ACTU policy, as well as ALP policy, is for the gaining of greater leisure. I think that if the Australian people are asked to vote in the coming election on the alternatives of the Labor Party policy or the policy of the Prime Minister they will be inclined to vote for the Labor Party policy. Workers and citizens always have wanted leisure even more than money. Advances in getting that leisure have been very slow. It took 50 years to get the working week down from 48 hours to 44 hours and 30 years to get it down from 44 hours to 40 hours; and since 1963 the ACTU has been making statements about a 35-hour week. It is 8 years later and we have not got much of it. It is a very slow process. If the people have the choice between this situation and Labor Party policy, I am satisfied which one they will choose. The Government opposes the introduction of a 35- hour week, either industry by industry or by a reduction in the standard working week. The Government is opposed to any reduction in the working week. I would be satisfied to have the people vote on that policy as compared to the Labor Party policy. Again I quote the Labor Party policy:  provision for increased leisure time for employees in a manner which is appropriate to a particular industry . . . according to the circumstances of an industry, including the history of the industry, the degree of automation and mechanisation and other relevant factors. 
There is nothing frightfully dramatic or thrusting about that policy. I suppose that if it could be criticised at all one could say that it does not go far enough. But, if the Government wants to have an election on the issue of the 35-hour week and if the people can see the facts as to the policies of the Government parties and the Opposition party, I am confident that they will support the Opposition party- 
One could have expected a statement from the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in these circumstances about the very important subject of international trade partly because it is a long time since we have had any indication of what the Government has been thinking about or even that it has been thinking at all. Some features of the Minister's statement are pleasing but much of what he said is a collection of quite general statements, almost platitudes. Some are almost so abstract as to be meaningless, some are ambiguous and some are contradictory to others. 
The Minister has chosen to select some statistical facts, to state some changes in Australia's trade with countries and areas, most of which are simply beyond dispute. But he omitted many other statistics that are not nearly so pleasing for the Government but which he should have looked at and which everybody surely would expect him to have looked at. He saw fit to concentrate on our trade surplus of $895m in 1971-72, an all-time record. He painted an optimistic picture in the first few pages of his speech, a picture based upon the trade surplus figure. But what about the invisibles? We had a' trade surplus in 1971-72 but in that same year we had a record deficit on invisibles of $l,247m. Has that escaped the Minister's notice? Was  he aware of it? He has no intention of informing the House and the people. It would have conflicted with the optimistic view he adopted. 
I assume that the Minister wrote his own speech and that it was not written for him by somebody in the Department. If it was written in the Department, it does not improve my opinion of the Department. I prefer to assume that the Minister is responsible for the oversight. I have pointed out that no attention has been given in the Minister's speech to the astonishing record deficit on invisibles. Naturally, no attention has been given to what might be done to correct that deficit. Not much attention has been given to shipping, to the negotiations in which the Minister was involved. He very gladly signed a new set of contracts with the Conference lines, turning down some of the offers of Scandinavian lines. I appreciate that there is no evidence that the Scandinavian lines have contributed to any party funds. However, some Scandinavian bulk loading lines seem to be offering a proposition well worth examining. Organisations like the Aus tralian Wool Board were thoroughly in favour - and said so without hesitation - of an examination of the Scandinavian offers. But it had to be the Conference lines and it looks as though the invisibles deficit of $ 1,247m is to stay with us for as long as we have this approach. A similar position applies in the fields of insurance and banking. 
A vast movement of trade has taken place from Europe to other parts of the world where the British oriented shipping, banking and insurance systems do not work. Consequently we are getting the worst end of the deal by having to pay excessive charges for shipping freights, insurance and banking facilities in the areas where increasingly our trade is going. A new Government initiative is required but there is no sign of it in anything that the Minister has had to say. He did not even mention to the House the invisibles deficit of $ 1,247m. A closer examination of that deficit shows that it relates to the United Kingdom and the United States, our great and powerful friends. Last year $750m of it was with the United Kingdom and $690m . of it was with the United States of America. How much can one do for one's great and powerful friends? 
I am sure that the honourable member's experience in the Air Force will keep him up to date in this matter. We have to think in much more realistic terms than the kinds of political terms that have enabled so many Liberal back benchers such as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  to keep their seats by kicking the communist can. But it will not be quite so possible to do that as it once used to be because one cannot be sure any more that if we have the downward thrust of China  Dr Kissinger  will not be on the end of it. With all those beautiful statements that the Minister made about socialist countries, it will not be so easy now to kick the communist can around as it used to be. Listen to them. He said: 
It is of considerable interest to note that over the past decade imports from Western developed countries have grown significantly faster than imports as a whole. This growing involvement of the socialist countries in world trade could be a most significant factor in the 1970s, Our exports to these countries have more than doubled in the last decade to reach SI 47m in 1972-73. . .  
He is now telling the business friends of the honourable member for North Sydney that the trading problems arising from the difference between economic and trade systems are very real. He said: 
Our businessmen will need to develop a knowledge and understanding of the practices under the socialist system. 
What a change that is. It will not be quite so easy now to ignore a situation in which since 1951-52, over a period of 20 years, our deficit on current account with the United Kingdom has reached about $8,000m and with the United States $7,481m, a total of $15,501m. Our total deficit is only $9,645m. So we have a credit on current account with other countries of $5,856m but a deficit with Britain and the United States of $15,501m. These deficits will have to change. Inevitably it will not be possible for Britain, going into the Common Market, to take 18 per cent of our exports and for us to take 31 per cent of our imports from Britain. This position will have to change. 
So 1 direct attention to the next fact that the Minister now knows that the United Kingdom is going into the Common Market. He said: 
The breathing space afforded by General de Gaulle's veto in 1963 has been used to develop new markets. 
I do not ignore some of the things that the Government has done in its exports incentive scheme and things of that kind. I think that most of the development that has taken place in the last 9 years has been normal commercial or business development in which the Government has played no significant role. It has had 10 years in which to do something. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who was a Minister at the time he made the comment, was inclined to say that whether Britain went into the Common Market was not of much importance for Australia. The Prime Minister at the time did not like that - or was it the Minister for Trade and Industry at that time who did not like it? 
It does not seem to me that the Government has taken a positive role in the last 9 years in this matter. The Minister says that the Government nevertheless remains very concerned about the fate of those exports which still go to Britain. It is concerned 10 years after the breathing space began. It is not possible to say now, says the Minister, what the final effects of the British entry will be but satisfactory alternative markets will be found for some displaced trade. I have not any confidence about that. The Minister has said nothing to us that would give any justification for confidence in that statement. What has the Government done to ensure that satisfactory alternative markets will be found and where will they be? 
The Minister went on to say that there can be no question but that for a number of our export industries the consequences will be severe. What are they? The fresh, canned and dried fruits industries, the dairy industry, the wine industry and possibly the sugar industry are among those likely to be affected most. The consequences are likely to be severe. After 9 years of breathing space it must be a lot of satisfaction for the growers in those industries to know that despite General de Gaulle and his 10-year breathing space, the Right Honourable the Minister for Trade and Industry is now saying that the consequences for them will be severe. How severe? What is going to be done to modify the severity of the consequences? There is no indication in the Minister's statement of any attempt to reconstruct those industries affected or to transfer people out of them, if that is what is going to happen. Is there to be a scheme of compensation? There has been no suggestion of this. There is not even a recognition that it may be necessary because this Government does not plan ahead. The Government is like a man who waits for something to happen to him before he works out what he is going to do about it. It has an ideological objection to anticipating anything. It believes in what it calls 'free enterprise', and that means that you do not anticipate anything; you wait until it hits you and then you try to do something about it. That is not the way in which free enterprise operates in business. That is the way in which only this Government does it because free enterprise, as I know it, tries to anticipate what is going to happen and tries to make plans ahead. It is only the Government which interprets free enterprise ideology in the terms that you do not do anything until the crisis comes. Business does not behave in that way otherwise it would be bankrupt, as the Government is. I am totally dissatisfied with the absence of constructive measures that the Government might have considered for those industries I have mentioned and for which the Minister regards the consequences as severe. 
The final point I want to make is in relation to tariff making in Australia. We still have the 19th century laissez-faire attitude to the making of tariffs. We still talk about economic and efficient industries but nobody knows what this means. Economic and efficient on what standards? Tariffs are too high, the Tariff Board tells us and they have to be reduced. But what are the consequences of reducing them - 150,000 people out of work here and 20,000 people out of work there? I would say that there are at least 25,000 people who are unemployed today as a result of the application of the Tariff Board's recommendations by the Government. That figure is likely to increase. Nothing the Minister has said can possibly change the situation. 
The statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was very short. It is not my purpose to say that the export incentive scheme has not had advantages or has not achieved some results but just as yesterday, when I found myself following the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who was using aggregate figures for the balance of trade to try to justify a policy when those figures concealed more about the result of the policy than they revealed, we now have the same thing this morning. The Prime Minister has come up with aggregate figures for total exports, the overwhelming proportion of which is quite unaffected by export incentives at all. He has told us that he hopes to be able to announce de new scheme before very long. He his told us that there is a need for this scheme because there is doubt and uncertainty in industry. I am glad that has been admitted and recognised because there is a great deal of doubt and uncertainty in industry not only about the nature of the new scheme and whether it will represent any advance on the old one, which has had some successes, but because it has operated long enough to reveal its very serious deficiencies. There is no evidence at all that any of those serious deficiencies will be overcome in the new scheme. 
The second thing about this scheme is that, as in everything else, this Parliament is merely a rubber stamp. It is merely the place where the Government publicly announces the decisions that it has agreed on somewhere else. The Parliament plays no part in the determination of anything. It is the place where the Government makes public the decisions that have been made in a department or in the Cabinet and it is the place where the Government gathers a feedback to ascertain whether it has gone too far or not far enough. This is not a decision making place it is merely a rubber stamp. I have stressed this so much in the last 12 months or 18 months that I had hoped that somebody else would have noticed it. This case is a very good example of what I have been saying. Undoubtedly a new scheme of export incentives is needed. The Prime Minister has told us that a new scheme will be announced before very long and the Parliament will be told what it is. The Parliament is not going to be asked to take any part in deciding what the scheme will do. It will play no part at all. I would have thought that some of the Government supporters who believe in democracy, who say things about this place which would indicate that they have some appreciation for it, would be ready to object to this kind of procedure. As no-one in this Parliament is going to have any other opportunity to say what he thinks might be included in the new export scheme - I suppose it has already been substantially decided anyway - I would have thought that one or two honourable members opposite would have been ready to take the small advantage that this statement offers for that to be done. 
The greatest deficiency in an export incentive scheme up to now has been the absence of any realistic provisions for long term finance for exporters. It is not so much that they want something for nothing. If we are to increase our exports of manufactured products we will have to go to many parts of the world. But we will not be successful unless we can offer much longer term credit than is normally available through the commerical banking facilities and Australia industries development provisions. Wherever these provisions are found, they add nothing at all to the normal commercial banking facilities. 
Recently  Sir Alan  Westerman, in effect, told a Senate committee that if he were not inhibited so much by Government policy, very largely derived from the historic interests of the commercial banking system, he could use an extra, I think, $300m. It seems to me that this is an area where the scheme to be announced by the Government in the near future should concentrate on developing new facilities, and a new and much more radical attitude to the provision of long term finance. Another thing which I think should also be given attention in this scheme - one can have no feeling that it will be given attention - is an extension of the research and development assistance. At present this assistance is on a very narrow basis, but if we are to increase our exports of manufacturing goods the increase will be in those products which have been the result of research to meet needs which differ from the normal needs that are generated within the Australian economy. 
Experience shows that the research and development policy of the Government is too geared to academic qualifications. It is too favourable to the large organisations which are able to have a few university graduates on their staff. However it seems to me that the most significant industrial innovations that characterise Australian history up to at least 5 or 6 years ago have come from people who did not have any academic background. The development in Australia of cultivating machinery capable of effective use in hard soils has come from a background of academically unqualified inventors. There arc significant areas of the world where this Australian cultivating equipment is very much in demand and where the product has been designed to cultivate the softer soils of north-western Europe cannot compete with the Australian product. I know of a number of very high standard equipment manufacturers in Australia who receive no research and development assistance at all because they do not have a university graduate on their staff. 
I hope that when the scheme eventually comes to the House the pipeline in which all these decisions are made - decisions which the House rubberstamps - will at least have been moved to take into account these 2 matters, namely, the need for long term finance to be provided quite differently from the standards of the ordinary commercial banks and the need to extend research and development assistance. I do not believe that any dollar spent on research and development is ever wasted. I would be prepared to waste a lot of dollars in this field rather than waste them in a number of other areas I could mention. 
Finally, I protest at the way these things are done. Once more this matter has simply come into the House and we have been told - I suppose we should be grateful for this - that some time in the near future the Government will announce a scheme. At least today we are given an opportunity to say something about it, but I think there should be a way in which the Government much more deliberately could provide the House with an opportunity to say what it can and to contribute what it can to the development of a scheme before the scheme is finalised. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This is an historic occasion. The United Kingdom/ Australia Trade Agreement has specifically influenced Australian trade for 40 years. In fact prior to the 1930s a similar kind of arrangement, which had not been specifically part of an agreement, had dominated Australian trading relations with the outside world. This statement is telling Australia and the world that this historic situation between Australia and the United Kingdom is coming to an end. This is the end of an era. It is the end of a phase in Australia's history in which our trading relations were mainly with and dominated by the United Kingdom. 
This agreement continued over a period when Australia's trade with the United Kingdom was about 60 per cent of our total trade to a position where it is now 11 or 12 per cent. The termination of this agreement gives effect to the factual termination, the substantial real termination that circumstances have brought about. So it is a very historic and very important occasion for Australia. I have read the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and parts of it I find ambiguous. It might be my fault. I have not been able to clarify my own mind about the nature of the by-law adjustments that are involved. There are one or 2 points that I want to make about the statement. The Minister has told us that as a result of an exchange of notes with the British Government the notice necessary for the termination of this Agreement has been reduced from 6 months to one month. The British authorities have agreed to that. As a result of this action, from 1st February 1973 Australia will be free of the obligations entailed in the Agreement. It will be on 1st February 1973 that this historic phase in Australia's external trading relations will come to an end. The step that is proposed in this Agreement is the withdrawal of the preferences enjoyed by the United Kingdom on imports under by-laws of the Australian customs tariff. 
Generally speaking, the effect of terminating United Kingdom preferences is the elimination of a duty on certain goods for the United Kingdom which is lower than the general rate. The elimination of United Kingdom preferences would therefore have the effect of increasing the amount of tariff that is applicable to those goods. One would expect that, unless the by-law operations with which I cannot make myself familiar have the effect of changing that situation, the withdrawal of preferences under the bylaws would have the same effect. That is to say, it would require those goods which now come in from the United Kingdom to come in at a higher rate of tariff than before. I do not understand why not. Obviously that is not so because the Minister has told us that he regards the withdrawal of the by-law preferences as a significant cost saving measure and he has given some indication of that by saying: 
On 1970-71 figures this would save Australian industry- 
I wonder whether that last word should be importers'; I would prefer to say importers' -  duty payments of some $21m on by-law imports valued at $285m from general tariff countries. Moreover, general tariff countries will receive duty free treatment in the by-law area over a further import marked of some $220m. 
So that is a measure of the change, lt will apparently result in a saving of duty payments of $2tm on imports valued at $285m and general tariff countries will receive duty free treatment on a further market of $220m. The Minister did not say in the statement how much that will mean. 
The question I want to be sure about - and I am not sure about it - is what effect this will have on Australian workers. The Minister says that it is a saving of import duty, which means that some commodities will come into Australia at a lower duty. He said, towards the end of his statement: 
I repeat the assurances already given that the outcome of these broad-ranging inquiries will not be injurious to established Australian industries. 
I look at this from the point of view of Australian workers. I want to be sure that these broad-ranging changes are not injuri ous to Australian workers. I can have no confidence in the statement which the Minister has made because it is quite unclear from his statement how even the by-law reductions that are specially dealt with in this statement will affect Australian workers. Until I can get some assurance on how that would happen I cannot approve of this statement. 
The Minister said: 
This will be the first of a series of adjustments to the preferential rate structure in the Australian tariff. Last year the Government received from the Tariff Board a report on 800 items in the nonprotective area; il has asked the Board for a report by the end of this year on a further 1,000 items on which the margins of preference are greater than we are contractually required to extend. 
Does that mean that the 1,000 items are in the non-protective area or are they also in the protective area? He said: 
These reports will be considered by the Government early next year with 2 considerations in mind - the scope they offer for cost saving benefits and for negotiating coin for the exchange of concessions in multilateral trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
But a third consideration has to be, as I have been emphasising, the way in which those reports will affect the position of Australian workers. When will action be taken, that is, when will legislation be introduced to implement this series of adjustments, or the series of adjustments still to come although obviously not soon? That action should be taken by the new government, whenever it is elected. As we are approaching an election and there may well be a change of government, in which case the trade policy of the incoming government would differ quite significantly from that of the outgoing government, I think there is an obligation upon the Government at present in office to take no action until the election is held and until the people of Australia have a say as to who they want to govern this country, if I may use the term in respect of a matter of this kind, 1 think we should have a moratorium on further action until after the election. 
Specifically 1 would like the Minister, if he can, to give attention to the questions which I have asked and to explain, if he will, how it is that the removal or the withdrawal of preferences on imports under bylaws, which I would expect to be generally at rates lower than the general rate, do have the effect of reducing duty payments as detailed in his speech. Would it not be more correct to say that these reductions will involve duty payments by importers and not by industry? 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I second the motion and I will speak straight away. The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has a relevance to this Parliament because it is recognised and admitted by everybody who has considered this question that what we are concerned with when we are concerned with what the Leader of the Opposition has just described as the largest mass crime ever committed in Australia is something that is international, something that relates to other countries and something that has been imported into Australia from overseas. What is imported here from overseas, what relates to relations with countries, is quite clearly the responsibility of the Federal Government. The responsibility for preventing crime is shared between the Commonwealth and the States. The States have a responsibility, but of course the Federal Government has its responsibility in relation to the matters which have just been defined by the Leader of the Opposition. The motion that he has moved relates specifically to the need for the Common- wealth to have effective police and Intelligence services to be fully aware of the nature of overseas terrorist organisations and to prevent their entry into and operations in Australia. 
I believe in political freedom, but I oppose criminal freedom - and I know the difference between the two. I am satisfied that the series of governments we have had under  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon  - I leave out one Prime Minister - have favoured making some aspects of political freedom into crimes and, on the contrary, have proved sympathetic to certain criminal conduct provided that those who carry it out are anticommunist and are supported or believed they will be supported by Democratic Labor Party type and National Civic Council type leaders and supporters. 
As the Leader of the Opposition has detailed, since 1964 there have been 20 bomb explosions - not one or 2 or 3, but 20 - each of which could have killed or injured many people. Now in Sydney 16 people have been injured - some seriously - by 2 of these bomb explosions. Both the State and Commonwealth Governments have a responsibility to prevent such criminal action and to find, arrest and deal with those who carry out this activity. Not only is the record bad but only one person in Australia has been found, arrested and charged with an offence as a result of these bombing offences, and that was in Geelong. Incidentally, the man who was charged with that offence is one of those who are alleged to have been arrested in Yugoslavia for carrying out similar terrorist activities there after being trained here. Two other persons were arrested in the Australian Capita] Territory for being in possession of explosives similar to those that exploded at the Serbian Orthodox Church here in Canberra, and 5 persons have been arrested in Victoria for being in possession of a large quantity of explosives similar to those used in explosions in Victoria in April. I point out that each and every one of those persons regards himself as a Croat and in fact is one. All except one of them are known to be sympathisers with the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia. The Government has known that these bomb attacks are likely to take place. 
The Leader of the Opposition quoted the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in brushing aside what the Leader of the Opposition had to say in moving his motion on 20th April. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs had deprecated the suggestion that these bomb attacks could become serious, but they have become serious. The Government denied the existence as an organisation in Australia of the Croatian Liberation Movement and its supporters have said that there is no evidence that anyone associated with the organisation could have exploded the bombs. Further to that, some of the Government's leading supporters have from time to time acted in a way which shows sympathy for the Croatian Liberation Movement and its leaders. They have thereby encouraged the organisation and have made more likely the extension of its activities in this country. 
That is why this motion is a matter of urgency. That is why some action should be taken to ensure that the Government of Australia has the means, police and intelligence to prevent these activities from taking place. It is almost impossible to deny the origin of these outbreaks of terrorism and violence in this country. What is the evidence to show that an organisation in Australia could have been responsible for the explosion of these bombs? The kind of evidence is- 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to table a document which I did not have time to table when I was speaking in this debate, lt purports to be a handbook of the Croatian Liberation Movement 
Can the Minister foi Foreign Affairs say whether there is ai organisation made up of Croatians, aiming at a separate government of Croatians in Yugoslavia, which for many years has had a record in several countries of terror and assassinations in pursuit of that aim? Does the Minister say there is no evidence of the existence and operation of that organisation in Australia? 
The Opposition welcomes the substance of this Bill. Any provision for Aboriginal advancement is naturally wholeheartedly welcomed by the Opposition. But on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House condemns the Government for: 
its failure over a period of more than 5 years to exercise the full and direct responsibility in Aboriginal Affairs voted to it by more than 90 per cent of the Australian electorate in the referendum of May 1967; 
neglecting to consult with the Aboriginal people; 
refusing to restore land rights to Aborigines living on reserves or in significant communities; 
failing to provide decent housing for Aboriginal families; 
failing to provide employment opportunities particularly in rural areas; 
making insufficient provision for education ranging from pre-school to technical training, adult education and education at university level; 
its indifference to indefensible levels of neonatal, infant and child mortality, malnutrition and disease; 
its failure to assist the States in meeting these responsibilities beyond their own financial capacity and (0 its failure to provide the leadership which is a clear Commonwealth responsibility.' 
The Opposition is aware of the claim that will be made that over the last 5 years a substantial amount has been provided for Aboriginal advancement by both the Commonwealth and the States. I am very much aware of the figures that were included at page 1748 of Hansard of 30th September 1971 when a similar Bill was debated. The figures showed the amount of expenditure by the States, the Commonwealth and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs from 1967-68 to 1971-72. I will not give details of those figures. The total provided by those 3 bodies in 1967-68 was shown as $ 19.9m, and in 1971-72 $44.26m was to be provided. The amount had more than doubled in 5 years. Whilst being well aware of that, the first point I want to make is the substantial and growing need. From figures of the population of persons who describe themselves as Aboriginal we find that in 1966 there was a total in Australia of 80,207, more of them being in the Northern Territory than in any State, the Northern Territory being followed in numbers by Queensland and Western Australia. Those who have done work on population statistics since 1966 point out the rapid rate of population increase, the high birth rate which prevails, the survival rate, which is high despite the extraordinarily high rates of those who suffer from disease and the quite indefensible levels of neonatal infant and child mortality to which the amendment ls directed. The need in this area is a need that is increasing. The magnitude of the problem in every respect is not diminishing - it is increasing. 
The needs can be seen most vividly in respect of education. Statistics from the Bureau of Census and Statistics show that at the 1966 census there was an astonishing difference between the rate at which Aboriginal people gained access to education and the rate at which the nonAboriginal component of the population gained access to education. I will refer to just a few figures. Of persons 50 per cent or more Aboriginal, 0.36 per cent of males and 0.34 per cent of females were undergoing education of matriculation or higher standard. Comparative figures for the non-Aboriginal population were 11.32 per cent for males and 8.22 per cent for females. There were 1.42 per cent of Aboriginal males and 1.47 per cent of Aboriginal females receiving education at intermediate level as against 16.36 per cent for non-Aboriginal males and 17.61 per cent for non-Aboriginal females. There were 11.81 per cent of Aboriginal males and 12.61 per cent of Aboriginal females attending secondary school compared with 24.62 per cent of non-Aboriginal males and 24.47 per cent of non-Aboriginal females. There were 41.19 per cent of Aboriginal males and 41.41 per cent of Aboriginal females attending primary school as against 34.72 per cent of nonAboriginal males and 36.96 per cent of non-Aboriginal females. There were 39.97 per cent of Aboriginal males and 39.23 per cent of Aboriginal females receiving no education at all in contrast to 10.97 per cent of non-Aboriginal males and 10.6 per cent of non-Aboriginal females. 
These education statistics show the astounding disparity that exists between the Aboriginal population and the nonAboriginal population in Australia. In the absence of another set of census statistics it is difficult to make a comparison, but the statistics of the number of Aboriginal young people in schools and universities that we do have show that there has been no appreciable improvement in that time and that the overall situation of Aboriginal children has shown no significant improvement on the figures revealed for the 1963 census. So the situation of the overall population is still substantially the same. By way of further comparison, on the basis of the 1966 figures 3.6 per cent of Aboriginal people 45 years and over had no education compared with only 1.1 per cent of nonAboriginal people. The difference begins to diminish slightly as we come down the age scale. For instance, 5 per cent of those between 20 and 24 years of age had the intermediate certificate or better compared with 50 per cent in the case of nonAboriginal people. No doubt this situation will take a considerable time to improve and it will be quite a number of years before any appreciable difierence is noticed no matter what is done. This seems to me to indicate a far greater degree of urgency to meet the needs of people who are alive today than is recognised by the programme to which this Bill gives effect. 
The answer that  Senator Douglas  McClelland received this year to a question showed that statistics were not kept in such a way that those who were Aboriginal were normally enumerated in statistical collections, but the number of persons who took up Aboriginal study grants for the first time in 1969-70 and 1970-71 were listed by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in answer to that question. In 1969 there were only 15 people in the whole of Australia who were shown in the records as receiving these grants. In 1970 this number had dropped to 13 and in 1971 it was 26. However, 8 of the 26 listed as having received Aboriginal study grants were attending Education Department teachers colleges or kindergarten teachers' colleges. That was the most significant increase that had taken place. Teaching was improved, but apart from this there was no overall improvement in the number of people receiving those grants at tertiary institutions between 1969 and 1970. We can be satisfied from the figures we have that so far there has been no upward trend in the statistics in respect to education and that the magnitude of this education problem remains. 
The next matter I want to look at is land grants. The principles that have been set out already in a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  seem to me to be generally satisfactory, and I wish to refer to them. They are: To investigate ways of providing a simple, flexible form of incorporation for Aboriginal communities; to amend the law under which land is reserved for the use and benefit of Aborigines so that a reserve cannot be revoked in whole or in part without an effective opportunity for a review both by the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory and by both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament; to complete as expeditiously as possible programmes to delineate and protect areas of land both within and outside reserves for Aboriginal religious and ceremonial purposes. But when one refers to the attitude of Ministers in relation to this matter, the reason why no progress whatever has been made in meeting the needs of the Aboriginal people for land immediately becomes apparent. As long as the attitude exhibited by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  dominates the Government - I am satisfied that the Australian Country Party attitude does dominate the Government in respect of this - there will be no progress. 
In 1971,  Mr Hunt  said that the Government's attitude on leasing was based on a rational land use policy.' But what is a rational land use policy'? The Minister went on to say that such a policy 'did not provide for the issue of titles to land simply because certain Aboriginals claimed their ancestors had a traditional association with it regardless of its economic use'. The Minister then said that Aborigines 'have a right to areas of special significance, but just to set aside land because they claim it tends to perpetuate the Aboriginal tribal system was no justification'. 
The Minister for the interior quite clearly dismisses the essence and the substance of the claim of Aboriginal people for land in the first place. He seems to be unable to appreciate that rational use of land by the Aboriginal people is precisely the kind of use that he dismisses in the 2 sentences that 1 quoted. As long as a government is influenced by people who take what I call the Country Party attitude to the use of land - that is, we must make money from the use of land; it must be on a kind of commercial foundation - there will be no progress made by a government towards meeting the need of the Aboriginal people to acquire land grants, which in fact do relate especially to the claims that they make that their ancestors had a traditional association with the land, and that they have a right to areas of special significance to perpetuate the Aboriginal tribal system, irrespective of the economic or commercial use of the land. It seems to me that this problem must still be overcome and that the Government is open to a fundamental criticism for its complete failure in the last 5 years to overcome this difficulty. 
If one refers to the available information in relation to health, as in education, the striking thing that hits the observer is the shockingly high adverse statistics on Aboriginal health that are available. On many occasions, statistics have been quoted in this House which tend to show that the infant mortality rate in the Northern Territory is between 8 and 20 times as high as the normal rate for people in Australia. Figures as high as 208 deaths per thousand have been quoted with authority in this House. We have seen claims that, although Aborigines account for only a little more than 1 per cent of the Australian population, they account for 10 per cent of Australia's infant deaths, 28 per cent of the deaths of 1-year olds, about 10 per cent of the deaths of 2 to 4-year olds and 94 per cent of the deaths of lepers. Similarly, if the figures were available on a satisfactory basis for such things as tuberculosis, they would show that the statistics applying to the Aboriginal people were relatively as bad as those areas to which I have just referred.  
It  k  impossible to be satisfied that, in the last 5 years, there has been any appreciable improvement in these matters. From time to time, as an explanation for the failure to achieve any improvement, the Government has said that the health problem stems from the nomadic background of the Aborigines - the fact that they are in mobile groups - but of course this is merely to say something about the problem and not to provide a justification for cbe problem not being more satisfactorily attended to. I think we can be satisfied that there is no upward trend in the statistics in relation to the health of the Aboriginal people in the last 5 years. 
I refer now to housing. Here is an area where, at least in the Northern Territory, I think there is some evidence that there has been an improvement. But housing is still at a generally low standard. It can be shown that perhaps one-fifth of the Aboriginal population directly affected by Commonwealth expenditure has been able to live In improved housing by either obtaining new nouses or having the ones they lived in Improved. But we have evidence that as late as 1970 about half of the Aboriginal homes in the Northern Territory had separate laundries, 46 per cent had kitchens, only 11.5 per cent had electric, gas or oil stoves and 57 per cent had electricity. I would concede that there has been some improvement in the area of housing in the period for which the Commonwealth has exercised greater responsibility but I think that, especially in this field, some imagination is needed. It is most inappropriate for the Aboriginal people everywhere to be asked to live in homes of a Western pattern. It is a pattern which does not fit into the kind of environment in which they must live and I think a good deal of imagination should be used to design a completely different kind of house. I think the imagination used in the transitional housing in places around Alice Springs, Darwin and elsewhere seems to be little better than that used in their previous housing. 
That I think is the broad picture which will be filled out in greater detail from the Opposition side. It is the broad picture so far as material things are concerned and insofar as statistics can be quoted. However, I emphasise that there is still an inadequacy of statistics in regard to Aboriginal people. Unlike sheep, Aborigines were never counted until 1966 and we are still far behind in getting an adequate idea of their position statistically. 
I turn finally to what has been called the existential crisis in which the Aboriginal people find themselves and which is related to material things. It may even apply in the field of housing, where some appreciable gain has been made and not merely the maintenance of the existing position. These things can contribute very little to the solution of what has been identified as the existential crisis. As we know, Government policy in relation to the Aboriginal people has gone through several phases. The first phase of policy was merely to eliminate them. Then we reached a stage of great progress and the policy became one to integrate and to assimilate. This was clearly laid down in the statement read by the Prime Minister - I referred to it a while ago - as the policy of the Government. But integration and assimilation in Australia or in any other country mean a loss of identity. When we talk about assimilating or integrating a migrant or an Aboriginal person we really mean that he is to cease being a migrant or cease being an Aboriginal person and that in some kind of way he has to become an Australian. I do not think that objective is satisfactory. We need to pursue a policy which will not assume that a person must cease being an Aboriginal. Our policy ought to be directed at the maintenance and development of his personality as such a person. Assimilation and integration as objectives tend to have the opposite effect. 
We talk about education for the Aboriginal people. Of course, we do not educate them. We do not try to educate them. We do not use them to educate themselves in their own culture. What I think is probably needed here is a good deal more education of Australian white people about the culture of the Aboriginal people so that they can appreciate it and appreciate its extraordinary significance and so that they can acquire more respect for the Aboriginal people derived from the knowledge of this culture which, in many ways, is superior to our own. Nowadays we tend to gain our appreciation for an Aboriginal person if he or she turns out to be a good tennis player or a good footballer. If they do the kinds of things we do and if they do them as well as we do we think they are wonderful people. But the important thing is that we need some kind of education of white people in this country so that we will begin to appreciate the Aboriginal people for being themselves, for knowing what they themselves are. 
In the application of Commonwealth Government policy there is a very great need for us to aproach the Aboriginal people not as though we are superior and know what should be done about them but in such a way that they have the power to make decisions about what should be done about themselves and to call upon Commonwealth and other assistance as they need it. They ought to have the authority to make decisions, good or bad, successful or unsuccessful. Those who are concerned with Aboriginal advancement ought to be taking the position that we will help them to make those decisions, not that we will tell them what the decisions ought to be. In the absence of this, in this existential crisis in which the Aboriginal person in Australia lives, there is a lot of concern today about the Aboriginal people turning to violence, as though that is a terrible thing. But it is not so much violence as it is indignation and anger. Some white people seem to think that Aboriginals have no right to show any indignation and anger about the position in which they and their people have been living for centuries. 
It would be unless we were using it. If the authorities were using violence against them, if white people were using it against them as they have done for decades and as it was used out here the other day, without any appreciation at all or attempt to understand those Aboriginal people, that would not be such a terrible thing according to the views of honourable members opposite. But if an Aboriginal person happened to use a little violence and pushed a policeman over, that would be a terrible thing. I think this should be put in its proper context. What happened on the lawns outside Parliament House under the supervision of the Minister for the Interior, who is in the House now, was an example of how stupid the Government can become in applying violence to a situation of this kind, ft is certain that anger and indignation will rise in the younger people in the Aboriginal community because of the circumstances in which they are forced to live. 
Finally, the Australian Labor Party will assist the States and any other organisation or body that can. do worthwhile work in relation to Aboriginal advancement, but it is a Commonwealth responsibility and in this field the Commonwealth still takes a very secondary role. A number of incidents have occurred in recent times, including one in South Australia where land that was available was suddenly lost because the Commonwealth did not take the initiative. The Commonwealth still has not accepted a primary role in respect of Aboriginal affairs. Much has still to be done. Much is still beyond the financial power of the States to do. The Commonwealth still has to face the responsibility of undertaking the effective government in relation to Aboriginal advancement that the referendum gave it and which for some time. I agree, the Commonwealth looked as though it would undertake. But in recent times the sense of urgency and acceptance of that responsibility which seemed to be present in the Minister have significantly disappeared. Recent trends have been to meet this situation with a lesser sense of urgency than ever before. So I think that the amendment is thoroughly justified and I ask the House to support it. 
I have raised this matter because it appears that the Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney has given a contract to the Japanese company, Mitsui, for the supply of $44m - or $US54m - worth of steel pipes to carry natural gas from South Australia to Sydney. The Minister responsible for this matter in the Senate, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  did not seem to be sure yesterday what company it was. This matter is of great importance now and it will be of great importance in the future. Some people will say that this Parliament should not be discussing this matter at all. Presumably the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  with some almost tragic indignation will say that this matter should never be raised, that it should be left to a few government officials and a few business officials to deal with by negotiations. I do not take that view seriously and I am sure that very few other people in the Parliament and practically no-one outside would take it seriously. Parliament must be given a chance to discuss such a matter as this even if it were not a matter of importance. But it is a matter of very great importance and Parliament must be given an opportunity to say what it thinks should be done. 
This matter is of great importance now because it involves $44m worth of production. It involves employment for hundreds of men where much unemployment now exists. It involves the important question of the role of the Commonwealth Government. It involves the possibility of serious friction between the industries themselves - this has already occurred - and perhaps between the industries and the unions. It involves even now a wide range of things far beyond the negotiations being carried on by the Department of Customs and Excise in Sydney. Those negotiations appear to accept as a fait accompli that the contract will go to Japan and appear to be confined almost completely to discussing what kind of tariff rates should be imposed upon the steel when it is imported. It is not sufficient for this House to accept that kind of fait accompli and, if for no other reason than that, it is essential that this House should discuss the matter now. 
In the long run this matter will involve much more than those things. I submit that it involves the future of the natural gas industry in Australia which will be one of the largest in the world. It is said there are 3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas at Gidgealpa, 45 trillion cubic feet at Palm Valley and perhaps about 90 to 100 trillion cubic feet in the north west of Australia - probably the largest reserves of natural gas that exist in the world. The 800 miles of pipe now involved are only a small fraction of the total quantity of pipe which will be involved before these resources begin to be used. It has been estimated that from 12,000 miles to 20,000 miles of pipe of different sizes will be involved in the next few years. This matter involves the whole future of the natural gas industry. It also involves the question of a national fuel policy. Recently the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources investigated this matter. Evidence was taken from those most intimately connected with the industry. In paragraph 8.55 of the Committee's report,  Mr Hume,  the General Manager of the Brisbane Gas Co. is recorded as saying:   . . that Australia is leaving herself in a somewhat unique position at this stage in not having a federal authority whereby transmission and distribution can be controlled. Whether you look at the United Kingdom where the gas industry is nationalised, or whether you look at the United States of America or Canada where the industry is under private enterprise, in all cases you will find a Federal or central authority of reference and decision which we in Australia seem to bc lacking at this stage. 
He went on to say: 
I would support the view that a Federal fuel policy is a most desirable thing from Australia's point of view. If we are to be faced with the problems of interstate transmissions, then undoubtedly, in my mind, chaos will eventually arise. 

 Sir William Pettingell, the Managing Director of the company with which we are concerned directly in this matter of public importance, told the Committee: 
If the separate States impose diverging principles of control, the development of interstate transmission lines would be greatly inhibited - that has in mind America and Canada where there was bedlam. 
He went on to say: 
Uniform regulations should govern the construction and operation of interstate pipelines throughout the whole length . . . 
The Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources, which consisted of representatives from both sides of the Senate, drew this conclusion: 
The evidence would suggest that  regulatory  and advisory responsibility with an authority in the field of interstate trade could include: (1.) To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location- of interstate oil and gus pipelines; (2.) To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariffs and prices; and (3.) To study, review and from time to time report to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in the publicinterest for the control of transportation of oil and gas. 
This is what was recommended by a committee made up of both sides of the Senate. The Government has. done nothing whatever to consider or implement that proposition. - 
This is becoming a matter of acute urgency and importance. It is ridiculous to suggest that at this stage  this  House should not be giving any consideration to it. This matter also relates to the question of the future and efficiency of the Australian steel industry. The provision of gas pipelines is new technology. A vast future exists for the industry. Australia will, require not 10,000 to 20,000 miles or $44m worth of pipelines but perhaps $500m to $ 1,000m worth of pipelines.  Sir William  Pettingell condemns the Australian steel industry. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said that he did not want this matter to get into the newspapers. But it is in the newspapers today. The comments of one of the industry leaders,  Sir William  Pettingell, are reported in a newspaper article. The article states: 
Australian steel manufacturers are unable to produce the quality of steel required for natural gas pipelines, the general manager of the Australian Gas Light Co.,  Sir William  Pettingell, said yesterday. 
He strongly criticised the level of professional codes and standards in Australia for the pipelines. The poor level had created a background problem that detracted from the level of work to be done. 
Later in the article he is reported as saying: 
Therefore, it was extremely disappointing to find when we started to talk about national codes and standards for pipelines those people who should have been responsible in a professional sense  were  prepared to sacrifice integrity to virtually thrust on the community standards which would have been, I believe, letting down the community in the manner they were. 
There was a tendency to write our standards in terms of our industrial technology and industrial capacity. 1 cannot help but castigate people- 
And the Ministers on the other side of the House are necessarily included in this -  who set about doing this because it has created a background problem which can only detract from the quality of the work that we might afterwards do. 
This condition is not one that has arisen overnight; it is one that has been going on for a considerable time. If this is the condition of the Australian steel industry then we face a national crisis. 
The Australian steel industry should be in a position to be able to gear itself up to produce $500m or $1,00Om worth of steel pipes that will be required. It is the responsibility of the Government to find out the facts and it has not done so. Nothing the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  or the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in another place has said in the last few days indicates that the Government knows the slightest bit about the facts. I can easily understand why the Minister for Customs and Excise does not want to have this matter discussed in public. There is plenty of evidence to indicate why he does not want to have it discussed in public. If this is the state of the steel industry of Australia it is a disgrace to the Government because it is the responsibility of the Government to find out what is wrong with the steel industry. It is the responsibility of the Government not to protect an industry if what  Sir William  Pettingell says is correct and this is the state of the industry. If it is not correct  Sir William  Pettingell should be brought to account for what he said. But the national Government does not know whether or not it is correct. It is uninformed and impertinent in this great national problem. This is why the Australian Labor Party has raised this matter of public importance today. 
I draw attention to the fact that the Government has failed to protect Australian employment and the interests of the Australian community in this matter. What has the Government said about it? Both the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Works began by saying that the Government hoped that Australian industry would get part of the contract. The Minister for Works went on to say: 
Of course, we share the disappointment . . . 
So the attitude of the Government is that it hoped and that it is disappointed. The Minister for Trade and Industry took precisely that stand. In a long speech yesterday in the other place the Minister for Works added something to that. He said: We have no power to act'. So that is the present position of the Government. It hoped, it is disappointed and it has no power to act. It is up to the Australian people to say whether this is the kind of government they want. 
Specifically, I have referred to what the Minister for Customs and Excise had to say. He said that he would prefer these negotiations between the parties involved to take place in the privacy of discussion. He does not want the national Parliament to be given an opportunity to assist in any way in the solution of this problem. But when he talks about negotiations between his own Department and the Australian Gas Light Company, he is talking about negotiations which accept as a fact that this contract is going to Japan. However, it may not be in the interests of Australia that it should do so. He ought to be discussing, not as a fait accompli what is happening, but whether it should have happened or not. The Minister for Trade and Industry had the opportunity yesterday at question time to tell us something about this matter, if he knew anything about it. He admitted that he had known that the transaction had been pending for nearly a year. He had written to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  at the beginning of this year, not only saying that he hoped Australia would obtain a substantial part of this contract, but also stating that Australia would obtain a substantial part of this contract. However, it appears that Australia is not obtaining a substantial part of this contract. When asked to go a little further in answer to a question yesterday, the Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
Well, I do not know how much one can push other than to say that one is hoping and is disappointed that the order has gone to Japan. 
That is the substance of the Minister's position just as it is the substance of the position of the Minister for Works in another place. The Minister hopes and is disappointed. If the Australian people want a Minister for Trade and Industry who, when he really pushes hard and really does his best can go so far as to say that he hoped and is disappointed, then they have the opportunity to return one. But I should think the Australian people want the Minister to do much more than to hope and be disappointed if his hopes are not realised. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry went on to say that it was a matter of principle where the Government stands. He stated: 
The second consideration is that we do not Infringe basic principles - that is, we want to see commercial decisions being made by commercial firms themselves without too much intrusion by the Government. 
That is the Minister's position. This is not just a commercial decision by commercial firms. I will explain to the House what it is. Firstly, it is a great national question that affects the future fundamentally of 2 vast industries of this country - steel and natural gas. It is not just a commercial proposition - not just something out of which people can make money - but is something which concerns quite basically the interests of this nation. It is not a commercial proposition that ought to be discussed just between the commercial profit makers who are involved. The first responsibility of this Government is to become involved. It is a matter that affects every citizen of Australia wherever he lives in this vast continent. The firms concerned are not just 2 commercial firms but 2 huge monopolies that exist alone because of government action, protection from the national Government and privilege created by the New South Wales Government. These monopolies are not 2 commercial firms; they are vast economic empires created and maintained by the power of the state in this country. They have not a private preserve in the making of decisions in terms of private advantage or personal spleen; they have a public responsibility as much as the Government has. The Government deserves the censure of this House because it has failed to inform itself on the most basic facts of this great national question and has failed to realise that the future of 2 vast industries is involved. It has failed to carry out this most elementary and fundamental task as the elected government of this nation. 
ns asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Dowling,  a member of a wellknown firm of Sydney stockbrokers, contact his office seeking an interview; if so, (a) when was the contact made; (b) to whom did he speak and (c) did he indicate the purpose of the interview. 
Did any of his office staff contact anyone in the Taxation office concerning the matter raised by  Mr Dowling;  if so, whom and for what purpose. 
Was he informed that the matter had been resolved; if so, (a) when was he informed, (b) what was the matter that had been resolved and (c) was he informed how it had been resolved and by whom. 
Has he or any member of his staff contacted  Mr Dowling  since  Mr Dowling  first contacted his office; if so, what was the matter discussed. 
ns asked the Treasurer, upon notice. 
Is it in accord with a proper discharge of his responsibilities that he should give no information on the matter of (a) whether a well-known firm of Sydney stockbrokers made some $2.5m from what is known as bond washing, (b) whether a decision was made to apply tax to some or all of this sum, and (c) whether a decision was later made not to apply tax, but merely indicate that the matter was one for the Commissioner of Taxation, acting as an independent officer. 
Did the events in part (1) occur; if so, who made the decisions regarding the taxation the firm would pay, and what were the reasons for the decisions one way or the other. 
Have there been similar cases to this one; if so, what are the details. 
The Bill before the House has the effect of putting into law fairly exactly the result of the Tariff Board's report on metal working machine tools and accessories, which is dated 14th April 1972. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  told us that the terms of reference of the Tariff Board required it to have regard to the Government's objective that at least a nucleus of a machine tools industry be maintained in Australia without encouraging the industry to expand beyond the range within which it was then operating. The Board recommended that in addition to tariff assistance certain power fed machine tools should receive assistance by way of bounty and that certain special purpose machines subject to minimum rates of bounty should receive bounty assistance. The majority of the remaining machines under reference which were subject to protective duty should continue to receive tariff assistance. 
The level of bounty assistance specified in the Bill is 33J per cent of the factory cost. This is a change from what had been the form of the subsidy when it was a percentage of selling price. What is involved in what the Government has sought to do and what the Tariff Board has sought to do is nothing less than the planning and the design, in a very close and technical sense, of a very complicated industry. It is little short of a fairly fantastic undertaking. It came as a result of something more than a reference to the Tariff Board to ascertain what might be considered to be not economic and efficient. On page 13 of its report, the Tariff Board tells us: 
The Minister's reference directs the Board to have regard to the Government's objective that al least the nucleus of a machine tools industry should be maintained in Australia and to take into account its desire that, by reason of this objective alone, the machine tools industry should not  bt  encouraged to expand beyond the range within which it is now operating. Having regard to the evidence the Board considers that in order to meet the Government's objective it is necessary to maintain the local manufacture of those kinds of machines the production of which would retain a cadre of specialist design and manufacturing skills and specialist plant. 
The Tariff Board report continued: 
Whilst it is not intended that the industry be encouraged to expand beyond its present range by assistance above levels consistent with economic and efficient production, the Board considers it essential to the retention of a satisfactory nucleus in the long term that the machine tools produced locally be subject to continuing updating of design to meet market requirements; an'd that manufacturers adopt the most modern plant and methods of manufacture. This implies heavy demands on manufacture, design and development resources as well as on their manufacturing skills. 
Those brief extracts are all we have been told. The general conclusions of the Board extend over 6 pages from pages 12 to 17 of the report, but most of those remaining pages tell us nothing much more about what may be involved in this matter. The assumption that one can maintain a nucleus in this industry whilst the industry is not expanding is in itself, I think, a very tenuous one. But the point 1 do make is that between the Government and the Board what is being tackled here is nothing less than the planning and the designing of this very technical industry. Frankly, I do not believe that either the Government or the Board is equipped at present to do this. I think we are approaching the problem from the wrong end. We are approaching it with a Board that is required to tell us what is not economic and what is not efficient. I think we should be approaching from the end of requiring somebody to tell us what is economic and what is efficient. I think, with due respect to everybody, it involves a much bigger task than can possibly be discharged by the Board as it is at present. I think it is just not technically equipped to answer the questions which it answered, as I read, at page 13 of this report. 
It seems to me that it is time we realised that the approach of the past is not good enough for the future. I think we have to start from the right end. I think we have to develop in some way an industry planning department, a department capable of designing industry, a department capable of knowing what industry is and of saying what industry should be if it is going to achieve certain objectives of policy. Let us not pretend for a moment that the free enterprise Government that we have had for a number of years does not have objectives and does not have in mind what it wants to have in the field of industry. In this case it wants to have the nucleus of a machine tools industry. Nobody has really said what a nucleus is. One can search through the report to which I have just referred without getting any real indication of what a nucleus is - how many units, how many employees, how many factories and where they might be located. There is literally no instruction like that in the report. I would suggest that nowhere is there to be found a model of a nucleus of the industry m question. 
What we must have in this country, sooner or later, is a planning department that is able to provide a model of what an industry should be to meet the particular objective that is in Government policy. There is always an objective, whether it is merely an objective that is not specifically stated in a written reference to the Board that the industry should be economic and efficient or whether it is a specific reference like the one that was there in this case, to establish a nucleus of a machine tools industry. I should imagine that the Tariff Board would be equipped to examine critically and assess what develops from the other side. Until we have a planning department that is concerned with the design of industry to achieve a particular purpose and a Tariff Board that is adequately equipped with technical staff which is able to say 'We think this is unsound, we think the proposal you have is uneconomic and inefficient'; and is able to say 'If you do not have wider objectives than that, as you should have to meet the sociological factors involved in a particular situation' - such as the one in Benalla with Renold Australia Pty Ltd - 'to meet the broader objective of the quality of life of people in a certain area and in a certain industry, we belle, e that what you are proposing to do is unsound'. 
I think there is a great necessity for this critical and analytical role to be carried out by the Tariff Board and its staff, but I stress that there is a greater necessity to establish in a proper way the other side of the equation, which is at present in the Government, that is, in the section of the Department of Trade and Industry which deals with secondary industry. What happens in the Department with respet to the submissions of industry is not known to the public. Very largely they are treated on a confidential basis. What industry says in its letters and its deputations to the Government, its letters to the Department of Trade and Industry or its frequent visits to Canberra to see officials in the Department of Trade and Industry is confidential. It is known to nobody. What the Department says to industry is confidential and is known to nobody. What industry says to the Minister for Trade and Industry is confidential and is known to nobody. What the Department says to the Minister is confidential and is known to nobody. This is a field of public importance and of public interest. 
It seems to me, on this side of the equation, that the representations, pressures and interests of business concerns to maintain themselves or to advance are representations, pressures and interests which should be known publicly and should be able to be debated publicly. When we have the problem of seeking to maintain an industry in a place like Benalla or Gundagai, or in the electorate of Wakefield, the people concerned have every right to submit every conceivable argument they can in their own interest, and members of the public as represented here in Parliament and elsewhere have every right to examine every one of these submissions critically if they want to. We are not in a position now to do that. We are quite unable in this Parliament to assess the value of that material. We are quite unable to come to any conclusion about what is the nucleus of a machine tools industry. This can be a matter of very great importance. We are quite unable to say whether what the Tariff Board has done in this respect is even likely to achieve the nucleus of a machine tools industry. 
I have said on many occasions that we are working in the dark. We are trying to achieve something when we are quite ill-equipped to achieve it. I can do nothing on behalf of the Opposition but say that we will accept this recommendation. I hope it will work out all right. I have no reason to believe from what can be discovered in any of the documents that we have been given or from any of the inquiries I have made in the machine tools industry, and I have made quite a few, that I can form a judgment on whether what is being proposed here is likely to be successful, whether it will be enough, whether the nucleus will be maintained, whether what is proposed might be too much or whether profits and other returns in the industry might be too small or excessive. I have no idea. So far as we on this side of the House are concerned the outcome of this legislation is a matter of chance and in 1972 that is a situation which should no longer be tolerable. I have on other occasions submitted a general plan of the kind of reform which I believe is long overdue  -  25 years overdue - in the planning and development of secondary industry in Australia and until we have made progress in trying out the kind of reforms 1 have suggested we will still be dealing with matters like this, as we are on this occasion, by pure chance. 
I rise just to say what I think ought to be said at the third reading stage. I have said that the Bill is not able to reflect in its general title and purpose what ought to be done at this time. My comments related to remarks that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  made in his second reading speech. The purpose of this Bill is to ensure that a nucleus of a machine tools industry will remain in Australia. I have said that if the Bill achieves this purpose it will be by chance and that we have no specific reason to believe that there is any expectation of a more realistic nature than that.  Id  fact, somewhere in this industry in Australia the plans that the Minister for Customs and Excise just said cannot be made, and he quoted the English case after the war as a reason why the plans cannot be made, are being made. They are being made by people in the industry and they are extrapolating demand and supply expectations for the next 5 years and possibly longer. This is being done. 
What I am trying to point out to the Minister, his Department and advisers is that they are not prepared to share in that planning. They are not even prepared to try to find out what it is because they have a pre-supposition, which is not a socialist one, that they should have nothing to do with industry and should leave it alone; that they should give it a bounty and leave it alone. This is not common sense; also it is not public responsibility. I would like to make it clear to the Minister and to everyone else who is interested that when I talk about planning the development of industry I am not talking about the making of plans in the Department of Trade and Industry or the Tariff Board so that they may be in some way imposed upon industry. I am talking about an approach which will ascertain the plans of the industry and which will be associated with giving effect to those plans. In effect, industry will bo asked what it wants to do. It can be told: In conjunction with you we think this will be successful', or 'We think it will not be successful. We suggest to you that if you do this you will obtain a better result than if you do that.' When I talk about planning I mean participation by the people involved. I am not suggesting learning anything from the experience of Great Britain after World War II, from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland, Yugoslavia, or any other country. The only way to develop industry in Australia more effectively and sensibly is under Australian conditions. Our conditions, experience in history, assumptions and pre. delections are so different that we can learn almost nothing from another country. But it is time that we learned something here. 
I say in conclusion, because I am necessarily very limited at this point, that when I talk about planning the nucleus of an industry, I am talking about what is happening in Australia tonight in relaton to the 16 or 17 firms that are covered by this Bill. They are trying to plan the nucleus and we are not helping them. We are simply doing something in providing this tariff and this bounty which will have a chance effect on the result. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I have very little to say on these Bills. The Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) 1972 relates to amendments that give effect to the 50 per cent reduction in the rate of duty on wine produced from fresh grapes. It also contains amendments which will permit the delivery free of excise of tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff for use in approved medical or other scientific research programmes. The second point is a matter of interest. I wonder just what quantity of tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff are used for approved medical or other scientific medical research programmes in Australia. I know a few professors who use snuff. I sometimes wonder whether they are undertaking research or simply doing it for reasons of pleasure. If the Minister can give us any information about this I should like to have it. 
The other matter concerning wine is of greater significance. We all know that, rather unwisely from a political point of view, some time ago the Government increased the rate of duty on wine made from grapes. As a result of a considerable amount of effective activity, it decided to take some backward steps and so a reduction of 50 per cent was made in the duty on wine. The other Bill, the Excise Tariff Validation Bill 1972, provides for the validation up to and including 15th August 1972 of duties collected on wine at the reduced rate as a result of tariff proposal No. 1 tabled on 25th May 1972. I have nothing more to say on the Bills. The Opposition does not oppose them. 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham- -Minister for Customs and Excise) - in reply - I acknowledge the question of the honourable member for Lalor. I cannot tell him how much snuff, tobacco, etc., is used by professors. I would have thought, because of the circles in which he moves, he would be better informed on that than I. However, I have a figure at the top of my head in relation to how much excise it will cost the Com monwealth for this. I will not give it now because I am not sure of it. I will let him know personally or inform the House in due course. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports that Australian scientists have worked closely with the French in research relating to nuclear weapons and that there is an agreement on a feasibility study to establish a joint uranium enrichment plant? Has this close co-operation with the French been chosen because it is most consistent with the production of nuclear weapons, and does it expose the Australian Government's verbal protests against French nuclear tests as humbug? If the Australian Government desires to oppose French nuclear tests, will it now break off this close co-operation with the French in the production of nuclear weapons? If not, why not? 
Once again we are involved in a debate in this House about whether protection should be given to an industry such as Renold Australia Pty Ltd in Benalla. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  talks about the high cost of chain. I could talk about the high cost of meat, butter, bread and everything else that comes from the region the honourable member for Wakefield protects and speaks for in this House. But this is not the way to solve the problems here. Recently the Prime Minister of Japan,  Mr Tanaka,  wrote a book called A Plan for Remodelling the Japanese Archipelago'. The significant thing about that book is that it was written by the 
Prime Minister of perhaps the most industrially advanced country in the world. He says early In the book: 
Japan's future course lies in pursuing peace and welfare. This will require the simultaneous solution of such domestic problems as overcrowding, pollution, traffic congestion, soaring land prices, and the serious housing shortage in urban areas, as well as the rural population sparsity. 
Further on he says: 
The traditional course of economic growth through massive private equipment investment and exports should be replaced by one with the key emphasis on public investment and welfare. 
If the Prime Minister of Japan makes such a radical statement as that, I should think it is one that a Prime Minister of Australia could not ignore. 
It is fair enough to say that the message of this book is that perhaps the central economic fact of the 1970s will be the extent to which all economically advanced countries realise that they must depart significantly from the old free market principle of comparative costs. Doing what appears to involve the lowest cost has not significantly achieved what is economic and efficient but has achieved the most distorted and conflict-ridden societies in history. It has massed people in concentrated cities which are not more economic and efficient than they are good places to live in. The challenge of the century - the message comes to us from Japan - is to find a way, if that be possible, of replacing the acquisitive, monopolistic comparative costs principle with a rational humane method of building a society that is safe, secure and goo"3 to live in. We cannot meet this challenge simply by talking about comparative costs. Industry must be economic and efficient. Whilst the costs of a particular firm are important, the costs of the industry and the costs of the community are equally important. No-one has ever arrived at a satisfactory measure of what is economic and efficient. The Tariff Board merely assumes that the only measure is the cost of a competing imported product. It classifies Australian industries in accordance with the protection they have and assumes that those which have high protection are not economic and efficient and that the lower the protection the more they are economic and efficient. 
I note in passing that in the recent Tariff Review' for the first time we have a classification of industry, of 1,648 firms, showing the number of people employed, the value of production, the value added and the amount of capital investment. This suggests that the Tariff Board will pay some attention to things other than the key competitive product in arriving at some concept of what is efficient and economic. I would have expected that in that table the number of men employed would have been divided into the value added, or that a unit of capital - say $1,000 - would have been divided into the value added so that one could arrive at the value added per person employed or the value added per unit of capital. But it does not do anything like that. I wonder why that table is in the Tariff Review'. I presume it will be developed in that way. 
At the same time the only costs taken into account in the tariff review are money costs. Only accountants or economists need apply to give advice to the Tariff Board. This basis is too narrow and is totally inadequate as a measuring rod of Australian industry. Instead of merely foreign costs and economic and accounting costs of each single firm, we must seek out as well the sociological and ecological costs and benefits of industry. We must ascertain what kinds of industry we need to make the best contribution to the quality of life of the Australian people. We cannot do this if we allow ourselves to do only what foreign competition allows us to do. Foreign competition reflects only money costs and international big business power. It is no standard by which to determine what should be done in Australia. 
If we had set out 70 years ago to do only what foreign competition allowed us to do, we would now probably have no more than 8 million or 9 million people and by this time we may well have had a revolution caused by depressions and their resultant social conflict. 
Sweden has had much more protection than we have had. 
I am not wrong. Sweden has protected her industry much more skilfully than we have ever tried to do. We have not done that at all. But we have set out to try to keep Australian standards above foreign competition standards. 
One result is that we have perhaps 4 million or 5 million people more than we would have had in a Keynesian type of relatively free trade system. We now have about that number of people in excess of what such a system can support. A movement to a Keynesian type of relatively free trade system proposed - at any rate, implied - by the. Tariff Board and its academic, financial and Press supporters, the 2 supporters it has here and possibly the Commonwealth Treasury - all completely unprotected people and, I suppose, therefore highly economic and efficient - would cause a serious economic crisis in Australia. Such a policy will not be accepted in Australia. That is why the present Government has been running rapidly away from it in the last couple of months. 
The modern world has coupled the most powerful science and capital to low wages in developing countries and communist countries. This makes a more powerful competitive force than ever before. That is one of the characteristics of the modern world and that is one of the main reasons why the policy that I have just described will not be accepted in Australia. The feature of this world is not more free trade; it is more economic nationalism. Japan, the European Common Market and communist countries practise not free trade but more positive economic nationalism and examples of planning never ever dreamt of by most Australians. That applies to Sweden as well. What they need and have, Australia cannot need less. 
Therefore, what do we do? 1 do not think that we can go on with this old laissezfaire argument on which the honourable member for Wakefield has been brought up. What we do now is fairly consistent with that. We ask the Tariff Board not to tell us what to do but to tell us what we should not be doing. On its very inadequate basis, we ask it to say what is not economic and efficient. We do not ask anyone to say what is economic and efficient. At the same time industry managers and others lobby political leaders and the Department of Trade and Industry in private. Few people know what they say and what is said to them. It is all confidential. There is bureaucracy and an atmosphere of private deals. Then the Tariff Board may recommend a reduction of tariffs. If no-one is affected it will go through. If someone is affected there will be resistance, as in the Renold company's case. Invariably the Government will then hold up the process or stop it altogether. When the tariff reduction is effective the industry can probably save its capital, but the workers lose their jobs and may remain on the unemployment pittance for a long time. No-one knows or cares what the cost of the tariff reduction is. Presumably it is a matter of public interest. No-one knows or cares that it falls on the workers alone and that nothing is done to offset or share the cost. The chances are that when the workers do find employment it will not be in a more economic or efficient place, especially if they have experience or skill in their former job. 
I am amazed that anyone can defend this system. It is archaic, unfair and ineffective. This is the worst possible way of trying to secure a reduction of the tariff, but it is the system that the Government has been using for 25 years or more. I think a completely new approach is needed to the development of manufacturing industry in Australia. The first requirement is the establishment of an industry planning department. Its job would be to tell us what would be economic and efficient and not what would not be economic and efficient. It would have to help in the designing of industry so that it will get the best results both from an efficiency point of view and by way of contributing to the quality of life. This department would be more than a piece of the Public Service. I say this in case the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is taking notes to tell me that this would be planning from the top, socialism and bureaucracy, I emphasise that that is the very opposite to what I have in mind. It is not going to be merely a piece of the Public Service. Its reason for existence is that it would be a means of participation by all concerned or interested. It would include public servants, managers, unionists, scientists, humanists, ecologists and ordinary citizens concerned with what should or should not be done. 
This department would have to get to know what industry is now and it would need to help to design what industry should be. It would have to look at the position of, say, Renolds, as I looked at it two or three weeks ago. In giving people protection like that for two or three years we ought to have experts in that kind of industry who can say: 'We suggest that you do this or we suggest that you do that'. I am not going to criticise the industry, but what the honourable member for Wakefield has just said is correct. Unless something additional is done that industry will be no more efficient in two or three years time than it is now. The purpose of the protection for this added period will be altogether defeated. Why do we not realise that? It is only commonsense. It can be seen from the results. 
I think the main aim in this approach is not to keep industry as it is but to change it so that it can take its most efficient form and contribute most to the quality of life. The critical approach of the Tariff Board is essential. The Board should be required to analyse and criticise what the planning department is working on. But it would be expected to take into account a far wider range than the narrow money-cost measure to which it now confines itself. It would be expected to arrive at objective measurements of what is economic and efficient in Australia so that we could have an adequate classification of industry on that standard and not merely on one which classifies it according to the tariff protection it has. Anyone who looks at the  1,648  firms that were listed in the tariff review issued last week and who divides the value added by the number of people employed would find - even in that group of over  50  per cent or nearly so tariff protection - that the value added ranges from about  $1,000  a year to about  $15,000  a year. Does the Government want to transfer people from the  $15,000  value added group to the  $1,000  value added group? What does it want to do? The whole process I am thinking of would be an open and public matter and not the hole in the corner process which it is now and which is being defended by the honourable member for Wakefield. He has defended the present Tariff Board system of making tariffs. 
Of course he did He has done nothing else since he has been here, except during the brief period of time when he happened to be the Minister for the Navy, before he was piped ashore. The Tariff Board would be expected to be analytical and critical. Neither the Board nor the planning department would be too inhibited by its interests nor too self righteous about its independence. The planned development of industry would not mean less change in search of what is economic and efficient and what contributes to the quality of life; it would mean more change. 
But protected industry should not be allowed to do what it likes. Its prices should have to be fair and reasonable in terms of what is needed for the proper development of the industry. Anyone who is prepared to hand out the tariffs which this Government has been prepared to hand out and leave industry to do precisely what it likes about prices is irresponsible. Prices ought to be fair and reasonable and in accordance with what is necessary for the economic and efficient development of the industry to set back congestion, to end pollution and to allow industry to locate itself so that living and working conditions are good. The Japanese propose to try to move industry into rural areas and integrate rural development and industrial development. The cost of these things, however, should not be allowed to fall upon the workers, which is where it now falls. A protection policy should not be an unemployment policy. I mean, when applied through the Board in a reduction of tariffs it is an unemployment policy. Where it is found that industry will have to close down, workers should be regarded as being on transfer. The Department of Labour and National Service should be obliged to get them a satisfactory job. Retraining should be available so that their productivity and wages can be raised and not lowered because they are forced out of a job in which they may have had experience or skill. I do not think any policy to change industry by tariff changes should be acceptable unless those conditions apply.  1  have briefly tried to summarise in a few minutes something which has been very largely achieved in countries such as Sweden that are far more advanced than we are in Australia. We have done nothing about social and economic planning in Australia because we have had a series of governments for 25 years which have never needed a policy to win an election. All they have needed to do is to kick the communist can around. We have no time to lose. I think it is time that we embarked on an intelligent programme of seeing whether we can plan our industrial development better. 
irns asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Were 9,013 men automatically considered for call-up fair national service since the beginning of 1968? 
If so, how many of them were called up? 
How many of them had (a) registered late voluntarily; (b) registered only when detected by his Department, and (c) refused to register at all. 
What meaning is placed on the term 'register late voluntarily' in relation to registration for national service. 
How many of them have been prosecuted (a) up to the end of June 1972; and (b) since that date for failure to register for national service, and how many cases are still under consideration for appropriate action. 
ns asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say whether M. Francis Sanford is the Mayor of Papeete, Tahiti, and a Deputy of the National Assembly. 
Can he also say whether M. Sanford recently travelled to the United Nations to protest against the French nuclear tests. 
If so, is it a fact that Qantas failed or refused to provide a passage for M. Sanford and that he eventually travelled by Pan Am; if  so,  why was Qantas unable to provide a passage for him. 
Can he say whether M. Sanford was refused permission to broadcast over radio in Tahiti. 
Did M. Sanford send a tape recording to Radio Australia with a request that it be broadcast so that his situation and the isolation of the people of Tahiti by the French authorities could become known; if so, (tas it yet been broadcast. 
If it has not yet been broadcast, when will the broadcast be made. 
Will he inquire of the French authorities to ascertain what has happened to an urgent telegram which M. Sanford sent to me seven or eight days ago and which I have not yet received. 
ns asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
In which years has the French Government exploded nuclear devices in the Pacific area. 
What announcement did the French authorities make before each year's series of explosions in regard to the proposed number, size and type of explosions. 
What number, size and type of explosions did they carry out in each year's series of explosions. 
What systems or methods of monitoring or detecting these explosions are used in Australia. 
What levels of radiation have been detected in Australia in each year that explosions have occurred in the Pacific area (a) on the ground, (b) in water and (c) in the atmosphere. 
Is it considered that there is any minimum or threshold dose of radiation below which no harmful effect is likely to occur in respect of animals or human beings. 
Have any Australian officials or members of the National Radiation Advisory Committee or any other persons on behalf of the Australian Government received information from or given any information to the French authorities about nuclear devices; if so, what are the details. 
Is any co-operation taking place or proposed between French and Australian officials regarding the production of nuclear devices; if so, what are the details. 
Have any Australian officials or members of the National Radiation Advisory Committee made any visits to the French testing sites; if so, who made the visits, when were they made, and who met the cost of them. 
What levels of radiation have been detected in the Pacific area in each year that explosions have taken place (a) on the ground, (b) in water and (c) in the atmosphere. 
What cases of illness or death are known in (a) Australia and (b) the Pacific area which may have been caused by radiation. 
ns asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the number of males turning 20 in each year, as estimated by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, and the number of National Service registrations in each of the same years compare as follows: 
If so, what is the reason for the discrepancy of 53,315 in the totals. 
Was there an average of 202 prosecutions a year for failure to register for National Service during the period 1965-66 to 1970-71 but were there 723 prosecutions for the same offence in 1971-72; if so, what is the reason for the increase. 
Was there an average of 16 prosecutions a year for failure to attend for medical examination during the period 1965-66 to 1970-71 but were there 70 prosecutions for the same offence in 1971-72; if so, what is the reason for the increase. 
ns asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon  notice: 
is it a fact that postgraduate work financed by public money has been severely hampered by delays in the release of Cabinet records. 
Has he been notified of these cases; if so how many cases have been brought to his attention and what action has he taken. 
Has he received any letters from supervisors of postgraduate students expressing concern at inordinate delays in releasing records vital to publicly financed research work; if so, how many has he received. 
Has he acknowledged the existence of such delays; if so, in how many cases. 
If the answer to any of the above questions is in the affirmative, why did he, in answer to a question from me on 13th April 1972, say that he was unaware that research work financed from public funds was being seriously impeded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1972 be amended to increase from S500m to $750m the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may assume under contracts of insurance and under guarantees. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation was established in 1956 as a Commonwealth-backed, but independent, statutory authority to provide exporters with insurance facilities which were not normally obtainable from commercial insurers to cover risks of non-payment by overseas buyers. The Corporation's statutory powers have since been progressively extended, and now include the authority to provide guarantees to commercial lending institutions supplying finance for deferred payment export transactions. 
When the Corporation enters into a contract of payments insurance with an exporter, and when the Corporation gives a repayment guarantee to a lending institution, it accepts a commitment that, if specified payment risks eventuate, it will pay the exporter or lending institution in accordance with the terms of the contract or guarantee. In other words, it accepts a contingent liability. It follows that the greater the amount of export business that the Corporation insures, and the more often it assists exporters to obtain finance by providing guarantees, the higher will its contingent liability become. 
Since the Corporation was established, the statutory maximum contingent liability has been increased as follows: 1956 - $50m, 1959- $100m, 1964- $150m, 1965- $200m, 1970- $300m, and in May 1971- $500m. When the Corporation's maximum contingent liability was last increased in May 1971, from $300m to $500m it was expected that the Corporation could operate for about 2 years within the new ceiling. At the end of December 1972, actual contingent liabilities stood at $4 16m. Since then the Corporation has, of course, entered into additional business and has also given in principle approvals to prospective business amounting to approximately $100m. 
An important element in the expansion of the Corporation's business is the world-wide trend towards increased and longer term credit trading of capital equipment and manufactured goods. This involves the Corporation in the maintenance of contingent liabilities on individual transactions for long periods. Since the Corporation's contingent liability is rapidly approaching the statutory maximum of S500m, it is necessary that action be taken during this session to increase the limit as provided for in this Bill so that the Corporation will not have to curtail cover for new export business. It is estimated that, on the basis of current and prospective growth rates of short term revolving business and of medium and long term transactions, the Corporation will be able to operate for about a further 2 years within the proposed new ceiling of $750m. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Anthony)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
The amendment contained in the Bill now before the House removes the excise duty from wine produced from fresh grapes, being wine that does not contain any added sweetening matter. Honourable members are aware that one of the first actions of this Government was to invoke provisions in excise by-laws to allow wine to be entered for home consumption without payment of duty. The Bill now under consideration retains the duty on certain artificially sweetened wines which were liable to such a duty prior to the imposition in 1970 of an excise on commercial fresh grape wines. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I have seen the reports to which the honourable member refers and they are mostly inaccurate. The Government has given consideration to this matter, which was before an interdepartmental committee for some time. A report has been completed and it is ready for consideration by the Cabinet. When that report is considered full consideration will be given to the effect of revaluation on Australian secondary industry. 
The effect of revaluation of the Australian currency, directly as the result of decisions made by the Australian Government and indirectly as the result of decisions made by the American Government, is quite considerable. I expect that the percentage change in the value of the currency as a result of these decisions would be greater than the percentage effect on Australian industry that would have come from a tariff change of the same percentage. Therefore, it will be appreciated that the change in the currency has a very considerable effect. These changes were made by the Government for very sound and strong reasons related to the level of Australia's reserves. The speculative aspects of currency dealings involved from time to time many millions of dollars. The decision about revaluation had very strong force and weight behind it. Unfortunately, any such decision taken in and justified by the national interest has consequences. The consequences of this decision will take a considerable amount of time to work out. It is not yet possible to foresee the effects. 
In relation to the effect of the change in currency value on secondary industry and primary industry, both these sections of industry are being examined thoroughly by interdepartmental committees which have established criteria for adjustment and compensation. These criteria take into account other changes in the economy that have taken place. When action is taken on the recommendations of these interdepartmental committees - action has already been taken in some cases and will be taken in others as soon as the decisions are properly made - the effect on different sections of the economy also will be weighed. It seems to me that people who have been involved over a period of time in speculation in which millions of dollars have changed hands, as has been the case with speculation in the mining industry, and who have made a great deal of money on the speculative upswing, run the risk of losing some money on the downswing. Personally I have not much sympathy for the very well-to-do people who have been involved in that speculation. But there are many others. The particular effect that the Government will be very careful to take into account is the effect on employment. The first responsibility of this Government is not only to maintain full employment but to protect the job of everybody who is employed. Nothing will lightly be done that will endanger one job in this country. If, for reasons of national interest, changes have to take place and people have to be disemployed, that will be done with proper protection and with proper rights to retraining  - things that the previous Government apparently never thought of. 
That remark made by a former Minister shows how unwilling he is to give serious consideration to this matter. It is very apparent from files we have and from statements that have been made that the previous Government was being briefed for a long time on the constructive action that could be taken to deal with these matters without any question of direction at all. Yet, in all these cases, the previous Government ignored the advice it was given. This Government will not do so. The proper steps will be taken to ensure that no injustice is done to anyone as a result of the currency appreciation. 
I move: 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the report by the Tariff Board on cathode ray tube display terminals. I present also the following reports by the Tariff Board which do not call for any legislative action: 
Cotton yarns (by-law); and 
Disinfectants, insecticides, fungicides, weed-killers, etc. (by-law). 
Pursuant to statute I present also the Special Advisory Authority's report on phthalic anhydride. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Ohe of the main concerns of the Government in its consideration of the motor vehicle industry in Australia is naturally to ensure that employment of Austraiian workers in each of the many aspects of this industry is adequately safeguarded, lt is true that parts known as cut rate parts are imported into Australia and that those parts are used fairly widely in the assembly of motor cars except those that are in the high content plan. I am not sure of the proportion of parts that goes in one direction or another and I will have that investigated. However, I would expect that the imported parts would not be especially suitable for cars assembled or produced in Australia.  1  would think that those parts would be used in imported cars unless such cars were imported in a very highly made up form. I think that would be the limitation there. That will be investigated. I assure the honourable member that the first consideration of the Government is to protect employment in Australia and unless it can see a feasible alternative which is readily acceptable to those concerned it will not permit pressures on the industry that would cause unnecessary unemployment. 
I have had many representations from companies and unions concerned in the manufacture of carpets in Australia and it is clear that carpet manufacturers in this country have for some weeks been subject to very intense competition as a result of the importation of carpets at much lower than normal prices - 20 per cent, 25 per cent and 30 per cent lower. Undoubtedly prices have been significantly affected by changes in the value of the Australian dollar as against the American dollar. In addition to consultations between myself, members of the Department of Secondary Industry and those in the industry, an interdepartmental committee has been in existence for some weeks to examine these things and this is one of the cases that has been submitted in detail to that committee. 
A set of criteria has been established which would allow judgment to be made about any form of assistance that might be given, any form of action that might be taken, to ensure that adjustments following currency revaluations will not have adverse effects on employment. It is expected that within a very short time specific decisions will be made about this industry. I assure the honourable member that, as indicated by these actions taken by the Government, we regard employment in Australia as of the first priority and  we  will be setting out to ensure that any changes that might be made as a result of unavoidable economic forces will not be mainly at the cost of people directly involved. 
I notice an astonishing change in the attitude of the right honourable Leader of the Opposition to open government since he became the Leader of the Opposition.  His  attitude when on this side of the House was in very strange contrast to his desire for openness now. 
Yes, and his openness increases in proportion to his remoteness. However, the question which the right honourable gentleman asked me is an interesting question. First of all, I would have thought that he could have understood that Australians will have a sense of idealism in their desire to own their own country and to buy their own country back from the foreign corporations that the right honourable gentleman, when he was Treasurer, permitted to make inroads upon the ownership of Australia, very often in complete contradiction to what the Leader of the Australian Country Party, whoever he might have been, desired. I would think that that kind of problem is one that he would have to reconcile more with those on his side of the House than between him and us. 
The matter of priorities - the Australian Industry Development Corporation as against building societies - is, of course, an important question. Housing is very important just as investment by the AIDC, for the reasons I have just mentioned, is very important. The Government will be taking properly into account the relative priorities that are involved and its decisions on this matter will reflect its judgment of those priorities. I would think that they will meet much more the desires of the Australian public than those that were established under the government of which the right honourable gentleman was  a  part. 
in reply - In closing this debate may I say how much I appreciate the statements by the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  who was the Minister for Trade and Industry in the previous Government on his acceptance of this Bill and his understanding of the work of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The Bill is a simple one. It seeks to increase the contingent liability of EPIC from $500m to $750m. I assure members of the Opposition as well as Government members who have spoken in this debate that their remarks about other ways in which EPIC might be improved, expanded and strengthened will be carefully noted. I expect that in the relatively near future we will be amending the legislation to increase the scope and effectiveness of EPIC. The suggestions that have been put forward in the debate tonight will be carefully taken into account when that course is adopted. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  began bis speech by saying that the subject of the debate was important enough not to draw in the world monetary situation. I suppose 1 would agree with that view, but the leading  speaker  for the Opposition, the right honourable member for Richmond, who is the Leader of the Country Party, spent the greater part of his speech drawing in the world monetary situation and deploring the effects of revaluation. So it was hardly likely that, that lead having been established by the Opposition, the subject could be ignored thenceforth. I suggest that the honourable member for Wentworth settle with the Leader of the Country Party how debates ought to be conducted in the House. 
The right honourable member for Richmond spoke about the fast growth of EPIC and argued that it should be faster. I contrast the arguments of the honourable member for Wentworth and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  who were worried about the growth of EPIC. One of them said that $750m goes far enough. So again we have differences of view on the Opposition side which I suggest ought to be reconciled. I leave Opposition members to reconcile those things between themselves. I agree with the right honourable member for Richmond when he says that EPIC should grow faster; it will grow faster. The honourable member pointed out that the exports credit agency in Britain insures 36 per cent of British exports which is more than double the percentage that we insure in Australia. This is because the British economy is more geared to exporting, is more sophisticated and has had more development. It is time that we caught up with Britain rapidly. The Government will encourage industry to insure with EPIC to a greater extent. 
The right honourable member for Richmond accused the Government of being dedicated to the task of sabotaging the export industries. I do not think any responsible person in this country would accuse a government of being dedicated to such a task and I am very surprised that the right honourable member can use language like that. He spoke of the effects of revaluation, but revaluation was not something that the Australian Government gladly chose. It was a course that was forced upon the Government. The world monetary system, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  said, is still in the melting pot. The Australian dollar cannot be expected to chase the American dollar all over the globe. Had we not taken the action we did to stabilise the Australian dollar we simply would not have been left in an unaffected situation. 
Had we not appreciated the Australian dollar in relation to the American dollar and in relation to some other currencies, it is quite obvious that the American Government would have taken additional steps in relation to the Australian dollar. They were pointed out by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. Opposition speakers who simply look at appreciation as something that we had a free choice about, who believe that if we had not appreciated there would have been no other consequences and that the United States would have done nothing about our meat exports or our other exports into that country, completely fail to understand the situation. The appreciation of the Australian dollar was an action which protected Australia against the consequences that otherwise would have come, and these are things that are so frequently not understood by the theoretical analysts of the situation as well as by ordinary political speakers. No-one would choose to change currency values unless there was very strong reason for it and the effects of it can be quite clearly identified although they will take quite a long time to work out. 
The right honourable member for Richmond spoke about the effect in imposing losses upon Australian industries. Let us look at the rural industries first. Wool, meat, wheat and sugar prices have gone up to almost record levels and it was not so long ago that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was on this side of the House deploring the effect of high wool prices in encouraging the use of substitutes and making clear that wool prices could go too high. Now the appreciation of the Australian dollar has offset that and has reduced the competitive effect of substitutes on Australian wool, and the growers of wool, meat, wheat and sugar generally are in a very satisfactory situation today notwithstanding the revaluation. The people who are suffering the most from the effects of that side of the economy are not the producers of these commodities but the consumers in Australia who have to pay fantastic prices for meat, for example. I sometimes wonder where the demands of the rural producers will end. The price situation of those 4 commodities ought to be enough to satisfy anybody under existing circumstances. 
The Government has taken immediate action in the formation of an interdepartmental committee which has established criteria to assist primary industries. The cases of those industries has gone to it and where it was considered fair and reasonable proper assistance has been given. This applies particularly to fresh and canned fruits. Now, where is the damage? I point out that there are benefits of appreciation which very considerably offset the damage that might be done. The Government has taken a comprehensive view - not a one-sided view - of this and I suggest that it might be a little better if on this question members of the Opposition like the right honourable member for Richmond were prepared to take a little less one-sided view as well. He looked at the manufacturing industries and he mentioned a Sydney photographic firm. It is a firm of very great enterprise-' in fact remarkable enterprise. It has managed to export as much as 60 per cent of its output. The honourable member said that within 12 months the employment of 700 people in that company will be in danger. To that statement I say, yes if nothing happens. The Government is well aware of the position of that company. I have recently had lengthy discussions with its managing director. 
We are doing 2 things about this. One of course is the establishment of the interdepartmental committee that has been considering the position of secondary industries. As soon as we know what should be done action will be taken, but the Government is not simply going to proceed to hand out public money without properly examining and investigating the circumstances. Yesterday it was announced that the Government will continue the export incentive scheme for another 12 months after 30th June this year. That is about IS months from now. That scheme will cost $96m gross and about $55m to $60m net. It is a very considerable amount of money to provide to industry as an assistance to export. The right honourable member for Richmond mentioned that this assistance was only for a year. It is for IS months. In the meantime the Government will examine the situation and arrive at a plan. If this is satisfactory the plan for a subsequent scheme of export incentives will be announced this year so that industry will have ample warning of what the situation will be. But again I emphasise that the Government will not easily and loosely hand out as much as $96m a year to manufacturing industries unless it is satisfied that it is essential to meet the purpose to which it is directed. We are extending the present scheme for IS months because we believe that industry is in some condition of uncertainty. We will not pull the rug out from underneath it at short notice. No responsible government would do that. But at the same time we will not simply go on with the scheme unless we are satisfied - I submit that previous governments associated with the scheme were never satisfied - that the scheme is achieving its purpose. I think that the Government is doing a considerable amount to deal with the situation. 
The right honourable member for Richmond said that we need to encourage exports. I believe that. I believe that the great economic problems and crises in Australia have been caused by a deficiency of exports and export earnings. We need a long term plan to ensure that these crises are avoided. If one looks at manufacturing industry one can understand the argument about exporting. Australian industries that export are well known to be the most efficient industries, because experience in exporting brings them into contact with new ways of doing things. They can innovate and develop more effectively. We know that in the case of large scale production the industries need a larger market than Australia can provide. In order to obtain that market they need to enter into exporting. These are all reasons that justify the importance of exporting. 
The right honourable member for Richmond talked about the necessity for extending export into buyers' credit. He talked about the necessity for lower rates of interest so that Australia can be competitive. All this is valid argument. The Government has put into the hands of an interdepartmental committee the job of recommending what might be done about an export bank. As the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  has suggested, this could well be closely associated with EPIC. I am sure that before this year has gone very far we will be proposing an amendment to this legislation or new legislation to answer the need that the Leader of the Country Party suggested there is for increased buyers' credit. I have noted the points made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn).  These points will be taken into account in subsequent action by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Now we know how the honourable gentleman used to perform in the secret enclaves of his Party when discussing the McEwen bank which, of course, is the bank which we are now developing. The hon ourable member may be terrified by the publication in which he read that headline, but I am not. The development of the Australian Industry Development Corporation will meet the prescriptions not only of those who have been very successful and efficient in charge of it but also of the various industry advisory councils and boards set up by the previous Government for the purpose of giving advice on questions such as this. The thing that intrigues me about the advice that has come from those industrial quarters on this matter is that the advice leading to our amendments had been given to the previous Government for at least 4 or 5 years. I refer to advice from industry groups. The fear of close cooperation between government and industry which the right honourable gentleman - I should say 'the honourable gentleman' because he did not quite make the right - now calls naked socialism is something that he must have derived from his previous portfolio; obviously he has not derived it from his work as shadow Minister in the. fields of overseas trade and secondary industry. I assure him that the amendments to the AIDC legislation will be brought in with full responsibility to air sections of the community and will make the Corporation into a most effective instrument to serve the interests of the Australian nation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The amendment contained in the Bill now before the House makes provision for beer produced in the home for noncommercial purposes to be exempt from excise duty. The decision by the Government to allow home brewing will bring Australia into tine with Great Britain and New Zealand where home brewing has been permitted for many years. Home brewing is a genuine and satisfying hobby for many people and the legislation now being considered will permit home brewers to make beer for their own use. The opportunity has also been taken to re-frame the definition of beer to align It more closely with production methods of beer in this age. A summary of the change is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is complementary to the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 2) I have just introduced, will amend the Excise Act 1901-1972 by providing penal provisions for breaches of the concession permitting the home brewing of beer. The amendments provide for the forfeiture of beer on which duty has not been paid that is sold or offered for sale and for a pecuniary penalty for persons who contravene the concession. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to implement the Government's decision to extend the payment of bounty on the production of agricultural tractors for a further period of 6 months to 30th June 1973 or until such earlier date as may be fixed by proclamation. The Government's decision to extend the bounty period was announced on 29th December 1972. Extension of the bounty period will ensure continued assistance to the industry while the Government completes its consideration of the Tariff Board report which has recently been received. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
I have not heard of any recent cases of imports from the United States of carpets which may be of the type subject to high fire danger. There would be regulations which would require the Department of Customs and Excise to pay attention to this matter. I feel sure that the officers of that Department would be aware of what to look for in this regard. I think it would be reasonable to say that such goods would not escape their observation. However, I will see whether there is any reason to take unusual precautions and I will notify the honourable member of the results of my inquiries. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a Tariff Board  report  on Fibre Board - by-law. 
I move: 
Pursuant to statute I present the report of the Special Advisory Authority on capacitors. 
Ordered that the report be printed. Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent figures available on the financial activities of the AIDC are contained in the latest Annual Report of the Corporation and relate to the financial year 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1972. 
This report showed that at 30th June 1972$1 6.8m was on loan to AIDC. Since that time the Corporation has made publicly announced issues of securities, in Australia and overseas, totalling approximately $25m. 
Investment by AIDC at 30th June 1972 stood at approximately $55m. Of this, $44m represented the value at cost of general investments, comprising principally investment of capital funds, while investments in industry projects were valued at $llm. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In 1971-72 total Australian imports from, and total Australian exports to the countries specified were: 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Excise Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
by leave - As honourable members are aware, I have recently returned from New Zealand where 1 held discussions with the New Zealand Minister of Trade and Industry,  Mr W.  W. Freer, on the operation of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and on related trade matters. This was the first ministerial review of NAFTA since the 2 new Labor governments were elected to office. This Agreement provides a most valuable and important association for the 2 countries, and I should like to acknowledge the work of previous governments, and especially the work of the former Australian Minister for Trade and Industry, the then  Mr John  McEwen, and the former New Zealand Trade Minister,  Mr John  Marshall, with whom I had the opportunity to hold discussions while I was in New Zealand, in laying the foundations of a structure which has given great benefits to both countries. 
The Australian Government is giving high priority to its trading relationships. Continuing developments in international trade require that the maximum attention must be given to securing and advancing Australia's interests in overseas trade. Two such developments that are of the closest concern to Australia are the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community and the rapid steps being taken by Japan and the 
United States in particular to building up trading relationships with the People's Republic of China. Recent international currency movements have also highlighted the vital role that trade plays in the international economy. 
The environment which Australia faces is one of increasing competitiveness among trading nations. This is an environment in which Australia must not only survive but also flourish, and only the resourcefulness and determination of government action can ensure that Australia derives the maximum benefits from the opportunities that are presented to Australia. Australia's trading position is strong. But it is urgent that Australia should strengthen and broaden its trading relationships. The Government is determined that Australia should be in the forefront in seeking new markets and increasing its trade in existing markets. The early life of the new Government has testified to the importance that not only itself but also other nations place upon our role as a trading partner. The visit to Australia in March by the Soviet Trade Minister,  Mr N.  Patolichev, has confirmed the importance of Australia's trade with the Soviet Union and has added scope for development of our trade. Following this, I held discussions with the New Zealand Government on ways to expand two way trade between our 2 countries. Next month Australia will be sending the first Australian Government trade mission ever to visit the Chinese People's Republic. 
I stress the importance that both Australia and New Zealand place upon the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Growth in trade between the 2 countries has been considerable, increasing from $21 8m in 1965-66 to $390m in 1972 - an increase of more than 78 per cent. Discussions between  Mr Freer  and myself were constructive and successful. They have laid the groundwork for a co-operative effort to stimulate an increase in trade between the 2 countries and to develop their economies through the complementary use of resources. Both governments fully support the objectives of NAFTA and intend to work towards its more effective operation. To this end the review of its operation that was commenced during these talks will continue over the next 12 months. Indeed, the importance that both  Mr Freer  and I attach to the advances that were made in our talks is such that we will be meeting again in about 6 months time to look at the progress made during the intervening period. Normally about 12 months elapse between ministerial meetings on NAFTA. 
Discussions between  Mr Freer  and myself have resulted in a number of significant achievements which will strengthen NAFTA's operation in the interests of our trading and economic relationship. Both governments agreed on the principle that the first objective of our trading relationship should be the joint development of the economies of both countries and that this should be pursued through the complementary use of the resources of each country. Positive measures were agreed upon to prepare for the implementation of this policy. Both governments also agreed that further stepping stones towards greater free trade should be added to the Agreement. Arrangements also have been prepared for the situation arising from the elimination of British preferential tariffs. Accordingly, substantial progress was made on the future of preferential arrangements between Australia and New Zealand and agreement was reached on rules defining the origin of goods traded on a preferential basis between Australia and New Zealand. 
While discussions between  Mr Freer  and myself largely centred on the development of secondary industry and of trade in manufactured goods, due recognition was paid by both governments to the importance of the primary production sector of both economies. It was understood that the appropriate arrangements for meeting the needs of this sector - particularly with respect to meat and dairy products - would be a continuation of co-operation between both countries in third markets rather than the introduction of disruptive competition in each other's domestic market. At the same time, it would be wrong to suggest that there are not some areas of tension, due largely to the similarity of production in both countries. Problem areas do exist, in particular with regard to some forest products. As a result of discussions with  Mr Freer  this morning, we expect to make progress in that area too. Both governments are mindful of such problems and are watching the situation closely while encouraging a resolution of competitive interests through those directly involved. 
One of the key advances made through the discussions in New Zealand was the new emphasis that was placed upon the concept of economic co-operation. Up to the present, the emphasis under NAFTA has been, quite reasonably, on the expansion of trans-Tasman trade. However, there are great advantages to be obtained from the gradual development of an economic framework in which 2 individual markets, comprising 13 million people in Australia and 3 million in New Zealand, blend into a closely related market of 16 million people. The possibilities of economies of scale would benefit not only production and employment in both countries and trade between the 2 countries, but also would strengthen the competitiveness of both nations in wider international trade. It is clear that the greatest benefits will accrue to both countries when each economy is encouraged towards specialisation in the production of those things which it is suited to producing most efficiently and most economically. However, I stress that this is a long range ideal. It can only be achieved by gradual and co-operative steps which, moreover, must take proper account of the existing level of industrialisation in both countries. Responsible planning, therefore, should be geared towards complementary development in future industries rather than being implemented in a way that would disrupt existing industries. The important thing is that economic co-operation becomes the first objective of our relationship once it is established that resources allocation is the key to sensible economic planning. 

 Mr Freer and I agreed that the operation of NAFTA should now move into a new phase, one in which the emphasis should be placed on what I consider to be the fundamental objective of NAFTA - that of the development of the area, and the use of the resources of the area as a basic stimulus to the further expansion of trade between our 2 countries. When I say this, I mean that trade can only increase with real advantage if it is aimed to fully and properly develop our resources. It is not only the aggregates of goods exchanged that are important in trade. Of far greater importance is the contribution that the exchange of goods makes towards real economic growth. It is essential to ensure that trade strengthens and optimises the industrial growth of both countries. 

 Mr Freer and I agreed that high priority should be given to the complementary use of resources as a means of developing each country's economy. Against this background, we had an initial discussion On the industry objectives of both governments and we agreed to keep in touch with each other as these were elaborated into policies. The basis for this arrangement was our belief that Australia and New Zealand must work together not only to ensure that our individual plans and policies can take account of the other country's objectives and aspirations but also to encourage collaboration between industries in the  2  countries so that they can contribute in a complementary way to the growth of the  2  economies. For example, the development of an efficient secondary industry in New Zealand is in Australia's interest as well as in New Zealand's interest. My aim is to assist, in every way that Australia can, in the achievement of this objective. 
It is essential to stress the importance of involvement of industry leaders in the process of our mutual economic development. Both governments are prepared to work positively and constructively towards this end within the framework of NAFTA. But, while governments can plan, encourage and lead, the success of NAFTA is still very much dependent on how businessmen use the arrangements governments have evolved. A fundamental point is that government does not work in isolation from commercial realities. Government must work with business, from a position of leadership, but leadership based on close consultation and co-operation with industry. The extent to which industry can take advantage of the economic growth of both countries and of the economies of scale which should result from production for the combined area market will depend on the energy and imagination that businessmen on both sides of the Tasman put into making NAFTA work. Co-operation should be the objective, backed by the assurance that, through co-operation, trade can be expanded without injury to existing investment and efficient domestic industries. It is worth noting that, in some industrial sectors, notably motor vehicles and domestic appliances, there is already an encouraging trend towards trans-Tasman industrial cooperation and co-ordination of production plans. For example, although starting from limited firm to firm arrangements made under Article  3:7  of the Agreement,  2-way  trade in domestic appliances has greatly increased in volume on the basis of industry to industry co-operation. 
I refer now to the very significant agreement reached by both governments on the principle that provision should be made to add further stepping stones towards free trade. It is apparent that the slow expansion of the trade coverage of Schedule A - the free trade part of NAFTA - has been to a large extent the result of reluctance by firms and industries to commit themselves to conditions of complete free trade without some transitional arrangement which would permit them to gain experience as to their relative competitiveness. At present, NAFTA Schedule A arrangements are all or nothing. In adding a product to Schedule A, permanent commitment is being undertaken with uncertainty as to the result. This is too big a step to take for many firms and industries in view of the many unknowns. To the detached observer, the fears often appear groundless but they exist, and if they are based on uncertainty as to the future then it is up to the governments to provide means to allay that uncertainty. In the discussions between  Mr Freer  and myself we have provided additional stages between the existence of the commodity in perhaps Article  3:7  and its eventual entry into Schedule A - the completely free trade area. 
The framers of NAFTA, to their credit, included Article  3:7  in the Agreement. This Article allows the governments to agree on and implement special measures beneficial to the trade and development of each member state and designed to further the objectives of the Agreement. It has always been seen as a way of providing transition to full Schedule A treatment. The governments have used the authority given by the Article successfully to approve a narrow type of arrangement nl the firm to firm level. In its way this has been quite successful. Since this type of arrangement has been in force  2-way  trade worth $5 8m has been facilitated. It is unfortunate, however, that loose usage has caused many people to think of such arrangements as being the only way of operating under Article  3:7.  Article  3:7  arrangements as currently employed are useful in bringing firms together and generally educating business to the benefits of trans-Tasman partnership. However, such firm to firm arrangements only in rare cases lead to the consensus at industry level that is required before genuine free trade through Schedule A is possible. The governments see the need for intermediate steps to facilitate transition to Schedule A.  Mr Freer  and I have authorised officials to undertake studies, in collaboration with industry, designed to introduce new transitional positions, allowing a wider range of industry to experience the benefits of free trade in a practical sense and, in the light of proof provided by this experience, enjoy the long term benefits that inclusion of products on Schedule A would bring. 

 Mr Freer and I also reached agreement that specific measures should be taken to take account of the new situation arising between our 2 countries with the elimination of British preferential tariffs. These measures include understanding on rules concerned with the origin of goods traded on a preferential basis between our 2 countries in the future, and also the preferential arrangements themselves. It was recognised at the inception of NAFTA that the rules of origin applying to the goods traded on a preferential basis, and evolved in the 1930s for completely different reasons, were not necessarily appropriate to a free trade area. An essential element in any such rule is that the benefits accrue primarily to the partners. It is, after all, an area agreement designed to make the best use of the area's resources where this is economically reasonable and to increase trade above the level at which it would otherwise be. The origin rules we now have were intended to benefit Britain as well as Australia and New Zealand. This was fair enough in the context of the old Commonwealth agreements. But now we are thinking in an entirely new context. We in Australia are thinking increasingly in a Pacific, South East Asian and Asian context. 

 Mr Freer and I therefore agreed that common rules of origin, based on a 50 per cent area content criterion, should be adopted. There would, of course, be circumstances under which a 50 per cent area criterion would not be appropriate for certain industries. It was recognised that provision would have to be made for flexibility in the administration of the common rule in special cases and circumstances. Officials in both countries will be consulting closely with industry to ensure that the new rule does not produce distortions in trade or grave inconvenience to traders. After those consultations are completed it is proposed to finalise details for new rules with the objective of implementing them from 1st July 1974. 
Another matter of major importance on which substantial progress was made during our meeting in Wellington was the future of preferential arrangements between Australia and New Zealand. The mutual exchange of 
British Preferential Tariff treatment between Australia and New Zealand derives, on a non-contractual basis, from the trade agreements each country had with Britain and, although applying to items of trade not yet covered by Schedule A, is an essential element of the NAFTA relationship. With the dismantling of the British Preferential Tariffs by both countries which eventually will come, and New Zealand has been more specific about this than has Australia so far, it has therefore been necessary to reach agreement on the extent to which preferences accorded by each country to the other could, and should, be retained in the circumstances of the 2 economies and in terms of the concept of a developing free trade area. 
Both countries recognise that to achieve the prime objectives of NAFTA, including the development and use of the resources of the area by the expansion of mutually beneficial trade, tariff rates against each other should be kept at the lowest possible levels and should give preference to area production where this was economically reasonable. In this way, trade growth under such preferential arrangements should help to stimulate a progressive movement towards free trade under NAFTA. 
Several factors have underlined the necessity for reaching an understanding with New Zealand on preferences with a minimum of delay. Both Australia and New Zealand are restructuring their tariffs in a climate where British preferences will be disappearing and, in the case of New Zealand, practical reasons made it necessary to finalise important aspects of its proposed new tariff at an early date. Although the time limits on the Australian side are less rigid, the future position of New Zealand rates in the Australian tariff will have to be taken into account in future references to the Tariff Board. Another important consideration is the effect which the forthcoming round of negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade will have on tariffs in both countries. 
For all these reasons, an early understanding between Australia and New Zealand on reciprocal preferential arrangements was necessary. Accordingly, during our discussions in Wellington,  Mr Freer  and I agreed that we would put before our respective Cabinets proposals for an interim agreement on preferences, which would operate pending the working out of a long term agreement. The proposed interim agreement will apply until 
September 1974, and will thus provide a period of experience within which to assess whether the interim agreement can, as we would hope, form the basis for a long term arrangement. 
The details of the agreement I have reached with  Mr Freer  will be. announced when the necessary formalities have been completed. Meanwhile I can say that the emphasis in the arrangement is heavily on manufactured goods for which New Zealand is such an important market for Australia. The major exception is motor vehicles, transport vehicles and components. These items form a very important part of the trade between Australia and New Zealand. They accounted for $57m of Australia's exports to New Zealand in 1971-72 and, being mainly in CKD form, represent the basic materials for New Zealand's developing motor vehicle assembly industry. They are therefore an important element in the total NAFTA relationship and will necessarily have to be covered in any long term arrangement. However, New Zealand has not yet formulated a policy on the development of her motor vehicle industry and could not, at this stage, accept a commitment on future tariffs, particularly as developing a future policy on this industry is a very complex subject. 
Given the existing interconnection between the Australian and New Zealand motor vehicle and component industries the matter, of course; goes much wider than tariffs and preferences. Indeed,  Mr Freer  and I had an initial discussion about achieving a high degree of complementarity in our motor vehicle policies. 
That is right. It is not a bad objective either. We both recognised this to be a most desirable objective, particularly as the. industry is one with considerable scope for further industry co-operation and joint development. We agreed that an examination should be made of the scope for greater participation of New Zealand components in the overall development of the motor vehicle industry of the NAFTA area. 
There are external factors which, if not coordinated, could make all the work by government and industry meaningless. Industry has a particular responsibility and the motor vehicle industry has a particular responsibility in this respect. It strikes me as important that we develop a consciousness of each other in our general economic policies. This will become increasingly important as more and more industry comes under the NAFTA umbrella. 
While the importance of the primary industry sector of both economies was mutually recognised and understood, our discussions in New Zealand on this occasion were concerned primarily and most directly with trade in manufactured goods and the development of secondary industry. However, both governments are aware of the need to avoid disruptive competition in our exports of primary products, both in each other's domestic market and in international trade. Both governments recognise that our mutual interests in the primary sector, and particularly with respect to meat and dairy products, will be best served by a harmonious and co-operative effort towards an expansion of our primary produce exports in third markets.  Mr Freer  and I have therefore agreed to continue, vigorously and constructively, the work already started towards this objective. 
I would mention that, while in New Zealand, I stressed the considerable emphasis placed by the Australian side on the process of reconstruction that has been going on for some time within the Australian dairying industry, and the effects that this was already having in achieving efficiency of that industry. 

 Mr Freer and I were very pleased with the degree of frank consultation and co-operation which has characterised discussions under NAFTA since its inception. We strongly endorsed the view that this type of consultation and co-operation gave strength to the whole structure of our trade relations and agreed that it should continue at all levels - government, industry and commercial - as basic to the success of the Agreement. It is essential that knowledge and experience of the Agreement and of its opportunities and benefits should penetrate to all sectors of our 2 communities if NAFTA is to achieve the wide public support which will ensure its full and successful operation. 
Our relations with New Zealand under NAFTA are the most intricate and comprehensive of our trading relations. It has to be recognised that because of the comprehensive nature of these relations and the similarity of our 2 economies it is difficult to move rapidly towards more free trade. I have already acknowledged the work done by the previous governments in this matter. In conclusion I acknowledge the ease and fruitfulness of the co-operation that  Mr Freer,  the Minister for Trade and Industry in New Zealand, made possible in this matter. Finally, I acknowledge the high level of competence that is shown by our own departmental officials in the real work - and they do the real work - that is done in these negotiations. I present the following paper: 
New Zealand-Australia Trade Relations - Ministerial Statement, 11 April 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Crean)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on Small Business and I ask leave to make a brief statement on the subject of that report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
See (1). 
See (1). 
1 am aware that the company near Devonport that was mentioned by the honourable member has announced that it proposes to curtail sales to Thailand, that this will involve a reduction in the number of people employed and that it is now choosing to make those sales from another branch of the company in Great Britain. The company has asserted that the reason for this is the change in the currency valuations in relation to the Australian dollar and the Thai baht that have taken place recently. It is true that there has been a change in the currency relations between the 2 countries and that the appreciation of the Australian dollar could have been a factor involved in the company's decisions. However it is likely that the changes that occurred since the devaluation of sterling in 1967 have had more effect than the December or February events in respect of those 2 currencies. 
As far as I am aware, the company has made no approach to the Department of Overseas Trade, but if it desires to do so it may make an approach to the Department or to me personally and I will then assure the company that its case will be considered on the basis of the criteria that have been decided upon by the Government for assistance to companies that have suffered losses as a result of the currency changes. Some quite definite criteria are established. The company would have to show that there had been a reduction in its export price and that it had come about as a result of the currency revaluation. The Government is not simply concerned to accept a statement made by anyone but will naturally require proof of this important point. The assistance that is available is limited to $100,000 but many cases are under consideration and if the company in Devonport has a case I suggest that it submit it immediately to the Department or to me. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Book bounty has been paid to the manufacturer of the publication 'The Jesus Scrolls'. 
(a) Particulars sought by the honourable member are confidential between the printer and the Department of Customs and Excise. However, the Book Bounty Act provides for an annual return to Parliament showing the number of books produced each year on which bounty has been paid or is payable, the name, address and amount of bounty which has been paid or is payable to each claimant. 
The full amount of bounty was paid by the Commonwealth to the manufacturer of the book. 
Minister for the Northern Territory: Administrative Arrangements (Question No. 238) 
I move: 
I present the following reports of the Tariff Board: 
Agricultural tractors; and 
Cherries. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
STATES GRANTS (TECHNICAL TRAINING) BILL 1973 
Debate resumed (vide page 1706). 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The chemical is known as tributyl phosphorothioite, sometimes as tributyl phosphorotrith. iloite. It is imported under the name of 'merphos' and formulated for sale as 'Folex'. It is understood the chemical is imported into Australia for sale as a cotton defoliant. It is sprayed on the plant to remove the leaves so enabling the bolls to be harvested cleanly. 
Yes. Statistics of imports of this chemical are not recorded separately. However, I understand the present shipment amounts to 8,600 kilos. 
Yes. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has supplied the following answer: 
There has been no local investigation conducted specifically on its effect on the environment However, the likely effects on the environment in its use on cotton crops would be: 
Plant and Animals: 
cotton - used as a defoliant. 
other plants and animal- spray drift would affect surrounding areas but in view of the extensive pesticide use in cotton growing the added hazard of one application of the compound does not appear to be significant by comparison with the total exposure to pesticides. 
Soil: 
The chemical is not very persistent, lasting a few days. It has no apparent lasting effect on soil and in this respect it has advantages over many other defoliants. 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answer: 
Operatives should not incur additional risk if the material is dealt with according to the precautionary advice on the label. The State Poisons Authorities require that precautionary statements and warnings shall appear on the labelling of agricultural chemicals which are considered to require these statements. Such statements are drawn up only after a detailed consideration has been made of the hazards- involved. 
The Ministers for Health and Primary Industry have supplied the following answer: 
It is important to note that whilst 'merphos' is an organic substance containing phosphorus it does not possess a significant ability to inhibit cholinesterase enzyme activity in man or animal. On the other hand some organo-phosphorus compounds which are insecticides are highly toxic due to their effect on these essential biological processes. 
There is extensive literature on the effects of organo-phosphorus insecticides on the health of operatives and from data obtained from this literature, guidelines for the safe use of these insecticides have been drawn up. The National Health and Medical Research Council has issued a booklet 'Poisoning by Organo-Phosphorus Compounds' which has been widely distributed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 1st September 1972. 
At the present time tariff quotas, introduced by the previous government, apply to the importation of these goods and these will continue until 30th June 1974. The tariff quotas were intended to give the industry time to adjust to the reduced rates of duty recommended by the Tariff Board and to ensure that the more efficient sectors of the Australian knitwear and woven shirt industries would continue to operate on a viable basis. 
The Textile and Apparel Industry Advisory Panel was recently established to advise the Government on means of ensuring a strong, viable and profitable industry, and on matters affecting the development of the industry. Members of the Panel comprise representatives from industry, trade unions, consumers and the Department of Secondary Industry bringing together the collective experience, knowledge and ideas of a wide cross section of the community. One of the matters the Panel will be looking at is the need for quantitative restrictions or other forms of assistance to the industry. 
Repatriation: British Ex-servicemen  (Question No. 362) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My colleague, the Minister for Labour has been asked a similar question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and I would therefore refer the honourable member to the answer to question 119, which appears on page 1460 of Hansard of 12 April 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the revaluation of the West German Deutschemark in May 1971, and the general realignment of currencies in December 1971, the European Economic Community introduced a system of frontier price adjustments, intended to eliminate as far as possible, the effects of the currency changes on intraCommunity trade. The compensatory adjustments applied to trade with third countries as well as to trade between members of the Community and covered exports of those agricultural commodities subject to the EEC's Common Agricultural Policy. Frontier price adjustments are still operative in respect of Community trade in these items but following the further international currency changes of February 1973, the EEC has adopted a new system of calculating these adjustments. 
There are cases where the previous EEC system of frontier price adjustments is believed to have been responsible for diversion of trade from Australian exporters in third country markets. However the effects of the new method of calculating frontier price adjustments on Australian exports will only become evident over time. 
Our views on these matters are conveyed to the Governments concerned both directly through our representatives in the appropriate capitals and through regular discussions within the GATT. 
-I move: 
The summary of the alterations is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I present the following report by the Tariff Board: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1) 1957-1972, contains amendments consequent upon the alteration in customs and excise duties in the Tariff Proposals introduced earlier tonight. The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel which is sold or disposed of to a person who is not the holder of a certificate and is therefore not entitled to receive concessional duty treatment. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
DIESEL FUEL TAX BILL (No. 2) 1973 Bill presented by  Dr Cairns,  and read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957-1972 and is complementary to the Bill I have just introduced. The Bill varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 

(9.53) - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the provisions of the Excise Act 1901-1973 relating to the dutiable contents of certain prescribed beer vessels. Honourable members will recall that my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  referred to this matter in the Budget Speech earlier this evening. 
 Section 77B of the Excise Act prescribes the dutiable content of kilderkins, half-hogsheads, barrels and hogsheads. The present dutiable content of these containers was fixed at a time when all bulk beer vessels were hand-made of wood and the prescribed dutiable contents reflected the average fills at that time. 
However, because of the turn to usage of factorymade stainless steel vessels for bulk beer the average fill of today's containers is now in excess of the present prescribed dutiable contents. In practice, for some years now, the largest size vessel in common use has been the kilderkin, the dutiable contents of which are being increased by 2.5 litres to 79 litres by this Bill. Similar increases are proposed to the dutiable contents of the other vessels named in section 77B. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
Firstly, the Minister for Primary Industry and myself, as Minister for Overseas Trade, have agreed to allow imports from New Zealand of 800 tons of potatoes. We did this because the price of potatoes in Australia has risen from about $40 to  $50  a ton to about $200 a ton in a year. That is a fantastic increase. This state of affairs is no good for producers or for consumers and it brings into very great emphasis the need for a national program of stabilising basic prices. I would think that every member of the House, particularly the representatives of primary producers, should be concerned about this. I wish we could obtain, if it were possible, the imports to Australia of other commodities such as meat, for example. I wish we could increase the supply in Australia of the food commodities that are contributing nearly 60 per cent to the increase in the cost of living which is now called inflation. Nearly 60 per cent of that cost of living comes from the sources of food supply and raw materials and not from factory products. If we are to deal with inflation that is one of the primary places at which we have to look. 
The honourable member has asked me whether adequate safeguards will be taken to see that black wart and golden nematode, which are well known diseases of potatoes, will not be imported from New Zealand. The answer to that question is, yes, full and adequate care will be taken. An officer of the Victorian Plant Research Laboratory,  Mr Maher,  went to New Zealand and inspected the areas from where the potatoes are coming and with New Zealand officials has certified that in those areas there is not and never has been any of those diseases. That is the first point. The second point is that the imported potatoes will be used in only 2 companies in Australia both of which I think are in New South Wales. The premises of these companies have been inspected by Commonwealth and State authorities who have laid down the rules under which these potatoes will be handled in the factories. Full precautions will be taken to see that they are not distributed through retail outlets. The potatoes will be confined to these 2 factories. After they are processed the peel and other wastage will be destroyed under the supervision of the authorities. Completely adequate precautions are being taken. I think that this ought to satisfy every requirement of national policy in a matter like this. 
This question relating to industrial research and development grants and the scheme of the Australian Government in this respect relates .to a very significant and important activity in secondary industry. Today we need a very rapid rate of technological advance and we need to be very much concerned with research in Australia so that our technological advance is not delayed and so that we are not any more dependent than is necessary upon research by multi-national corporations or upon research in other countries. However the scheme that has been used in this country has had a good deal of waste in it. It was too narrow in a number of respects. The reassessment that the Government has undertaken - which was given effect to in the decision made by the Treasurer last night - extends the scheme in 2 directions. First, it makes the scheme available when research is undertaken by persons with an appreciable level of practical experience, even though such persons may not possess the for mal academic qualifications, whereas previously it was a requirement that university graduates be associated with the research. Secondly, there is an improvement in the amount of eligible expenditure in relation to the grant. Some emphasis was given to the suggestion that we were not concerned with encouraging research at its commencement. This is an important area of research, but commencement is a matter of time and assistance will be given over whatever time is necessary for the development of the research program. 
In addition, the review has taken into account that there may be cases where firms have already commenced research and development programs which are of particular merit and where it would be in the national interest for these to be continued and encouraged. In those cases where such programs have commenced they will be allowed to continue under the previous arrangement. The honourable member can therefore rest assured that the review will not be carried out under any narrow or restrictive interpretation of commencement nor will it exclude those that have already commenced a worthwhile program of research. We want to eliminate a good deal of the waste that has taken place. A lot of money has been paid for research that was not research at all. A lot has been paid to very large corporations which could well afford to undertake research. I would imagine that the Leader of the Country Party is a spokesman for those organisations and I can therefore understand his concern, but we are not going to subsidise wealthy corporations which in some cases, are not doing research at all. Each case will be considered on its merits and a better result in research in Australia will be obtained in this way. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965- 1969. The Act provides the legal basis for the Petroleum products subsidy scheme whereby a Commonwealth subsidy is paid in relation to the distribution and sale of certain petroleum products in country areas. The objective of the scheme is to reduce rural costs by effecting a significant degree of equalisation between city and country wholesale prices of such petroleum products. The means of doing this is by subsidising, except for a determined margin, the distribution costs involved in moving products from bulk city installations to country points of sale. The scheme is, however, expensive and less efficient in achieving its objective than is desirable. In practice the largest pay-outs under it are made in major inland cities. 
The margin has hitherto been 3.3c per gallon. In the course of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  indicated that the margin will be lifted to 5c per gallon with a consequential saving in Government expenditure. Amendment of the Act is necessary to permit the new margin to be put into effect. At the same time it is proposed to revise the rates of subsidy payable in the various country areas, to take account of changes in transport and other distribution costs which have occurred since 1969, when the scheme was last reviewed. These changes necessitate amendment of the present schedule of subsidies. The Bill deletes section 6 of the Act which ties subsidy rates to circumstances as at 1 December 1969 and in general very strictly limits the circumstances in which the schedule of subsidies may be amended. As a result of this amendment of the Act it will be possible in the future to adapt the schedule of subsidies more readily to changes in petroleum marketing methods and economics. A revised schedule of subsidies is being prepared setting out subsidy rates that take into account the new subsidy margin and the updated transport and distribution costs. The new schedule will come into effect within one month of the date of operation of this Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Edwards)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the cellulose acetate bounty until 30 June 1976. This is in conformity with the Tariff Board suggestion that the bounty be continued until the Board has examined this and other acetyl products in its 1975 general review of the chemical industry. The Present Act expires on 31 December 1973 and it is desirable that there should be continuity of assistance until the Government has considered the Tariff Board's report and recommendations. Opportunity is also taken to introduce metric measurement and the rate of bounty of 8.8c per kilogram is a conversion of the rate of 4c per lb as provided for in current legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Edwards)  adjourned. 
Any increase in the supply of a commodity in very short supply in Australia is likely to benefit every member of the community who needs that supply. The use of the 800 tons of imported potatoes in the production of potato chips by manufacturers will mean that they will not be drawing on supplies in other areas, and that will make supplies more available to the community. It is obvious at a time like this when there is a very great shortage of a number of vital food commodities that an increase in imports of those commodities will be of benefit to the consumer. I am particularly concerned about the consumer, but I am not concerned about the producer when I know that the price of potatoes in Australia in the last 12 months has risen from S40 to S50 a ton to $200 a ton. I believe that any increase in the supply of commodities in such short supply as potatoes are is now thoroughly justified in the interests of the Australian community. 
The 25 per cent reduction in general tariff rates that the Government recently decided upon has been associated for the first time in the history of Australia with a positive program of adjustment assistance. The assistance is to be administered by a special tribunal,  Mr David  McBride. He is a man who is extremely well qualified for the job and he has the money - $25m - and the means to provide assistance for any industries that are in difficulty. I was informed just this morning by the Minister for Labour that up until now there have been no registrations in any of the Commonwealth Employment Service offices of people who claim to have been disemployed as a result of the tariff reduction. I am aware that in a number of industries it is expected that in the next 6 or 12 months there will be increased pressure from imports and that this may even result in the inability of industries to increase their prices as much as they might otherwise have done. The reduction might have the effect of a downward pressure on prices. 
But the probability is that, if it were not for this tariff cut, if it were not for the increase in imports that will come from that tariff cut, the price increases about which the former Prime Minister is now complaining would be greater still. I am sure that his knowledge of economics would be enough to convince him of that. It is quite clear that the probability is that there will be a considerable increase in imports - perhaps $400m worth - as a result of this tariff cut, without any decrease in Australian production and without any decrease in Australian employment. I am sure the Opposition has a sufficient knowledge of economics to know that that would be a very good national result. Quite a number of difficulties are involved. There are industries in the country and perhaps industries employing predominantly female labour which will be affected by this decision, but as I have said we have built into this, for the first time in Australian history, a comprehensive system of adjustment assistance which will allow for that.  Mr McBride,  on application from any industry- 
 Mr McBride,  of course, was appointed by our predecessors and their judgment was very good. They appointed him to the Tariff Board because they knew of his special qualifications in this area. I am very glad that our predecessors did so. He is ideally equipped for his present position. I would like to make it clear that  Mr McBride  has the power to recommend a restoration of tariff protection or protection in some other form, if that is desired. On the other hand, he has the power to give effective adjustment assistance so that beneficial changes can be made and so that they will not fall directly upon employees or the industries concerned. This is a comprehensive system of adjustment that is necessary if there is to be any tariff reform at all. Experience in the last 20 years has proved that, in its absence, tariff reform is most difficult indeed. This Government has made a more substantial reform in tariff by this one action than was made in the previous 20 years, and we have done it with adequate safeguard. 
I think it has been obvious for a great many years that it is necessary for considerable improvements to be made in the provision of benefits for those who happen to be unemployed or disemployed. For 23 long years I watched this miserable unemployment benefit being paid out by our predecessors. One of my early intentions was to do all I could to have that advanced and improved. I was concerned, first of all, to gain acceptance of the principle that where any unemployment was caused by the application of government policy we would not require those adversely affected by it to go on living on the unemployment pittance that prevails generally. 
Dairy farmers, who so far have been pretty adequately provided for by legislation which the Leader of the Australian Country Party had a considerable hand in designing, have not been overlooked. The point I am making is that the unemployed for whom he feels no similar responsibility have been overlooked considerably. As Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry, it has been my intention to make sure that we do not overlook those people who have been adversely affected by the 25 per cent tariff cut. 
The Minister for Social Security reminds me of the more than 100,000 people whom our predecessors put into unemployment the year before last as a result of applying government policy and for whom they made no provision at all. I contrast that with the method adopted by this Government. I am confident that the overwhelming majority of the Australian people will support the steps taken by this Government. We intend to apply that principle more widely to all the unemployed as we can afford to do so. The honourable member for Berowra, being an economist, would know that there is a limited amount available for any government to provide these improvements. Unfortunately, sometimes people who are badly off have to be denied because of the overall effect of increased expenditure on the economy. But this principle will be applied to an increasing number of people until, I hope, we reach the stage already achieved by advanced countries in the Scandinavian area and elsewhere. I remind the honourable member who is now interjecting that such people do not have any sidelines such as writing articles for the financial Press. 
The principle has applied in advanced countries for a long time that when people are out of work they receive something like the income they received before - something like the average income of the community. So there is no fall in income when a person happens to be unfortunate enough by industrial changes or by government changes to be unemployed. The concept of most of my conservative opponents who are interjecting, that unemployment is evidence of a particular fault of the individual for which he should be punished, has gone - and it has certainly gone from the policy of this Government. 
 in reply - I would like to mention one or two points raised by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards).  I am sorry I was not in the chamber to hear all that he had to say, but I got some indication of what he said about the remarks of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  about the relationship between the comprehensive review of the tariff and this proposal. I can assure him that there is nothing inconsistent in what the Treasurer has said and the Government's intention, which was derived from that of its predecessor, to continue the comprehensive review of the tariff that the Tariff Board has set out to make. Similarly there is nothing inconsistent in the proposal now before the House, nor, if I might depart from strict order for a second or two, is there anything inconsistent between this Bill and the Government's recent 25 per cent reduction of tariffs. 
Quite easily. This bounty has been paid on cellulose acetate produced in Australia since 1956. It was a continuing policy under the previous Government and is continuing under this one. The Tariff Board report of 1971 recommended extension of the bounty period until the results of the 1975 review of the chemicals industry were known. So first of all the Government, in the Bill before the House, gives effect to a decision which is consistent with the policy for this industry since 1956 and which is consistent with the report of the Tariff Board of 1971 about continuing this bounty until 30 June 1976. It is in no way inconsistent with the decision to reduce tariffs. I suppose it would have been out of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the honourable member for Berowra to express his attitude to that matter and to say whether he favoured it or did not favour it. I was waiting for him to do that. 
I am sure you were. If I may depart from order, this action taken by the Government about the tariff cut was one that was taken on the recommendation of a committee, the  chairman  of which was the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. 
I am not talking about that point. I am talking about its consistency with the present decision. The committee, of which the  chairman  was the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, and the Government have taken into account the relationship of the underlying tariff rate and the other additional provisions such as this bounty; and we are satisfied that a cut can be made without in any way diminishing the economic prospects of those who are producing cellulose acetate and are protected by this bounty. We are in very close touch with the statistics of both production and employment. The results so far have completely confirmed the Government's belief in respect of this matter. I do not intend to go any further on that point, nor to enter into any kind of debate with the honourable member about the legality of this measure. 
I was rather expecting that the honourable member for Kooyong would have taken the opportunity to ask a question on this matter in the last 4 or 5 days, and I was rather surprised that he did not. Frankly, I thought he had lost interest in it. As he now raises it, at a time that is out of order, I say to the honourable member that on my strict reading of section 15 'shall' means 'shall'. I also know that since 1931, over the last 40 years or so of the history of this Parliament, on occasions when a government has considered a great national economic question, as it did in the case of the Scullin tariff of 1931, as it has done on at least a dozen occasions since then, as it has done on at least half a dozen occasions since I came into this House- 
They were not in relation to trade agreements. I do not want to debate with the honourable member, by way of interjection or in any other way on a Bill like this one, this question but there have been many occasions, other than in relation to trade agreements, when this has occurred. The Government in making its decision this time did so on the basis of those longstanding precedents in the history of this Parliament. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS - I will give the honourable member an assurance that I will do my best to keep out of the Australian law in the future any mandatory reference to the Tariff Board. If I were a betting man I would give him even money that it does not appear henceforth. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS - It is a statement that is backed not by my ability to win an argument but by the overwhelming logic of the case. The Tariff Board is an advisory body whose advice should be sought by the Government. There should be no mandatory requirement to refer every matter to the Tariff Board, and I think that 9 out of 10 members of this House over the years and now would agree with that. 
There is no need to amend the Tariff Board Act. The honourable member for Kooyong would be sufficiently in touch with proceedings to know that before very long we will have before this House a Bill to establish an industries assistance commission. The question will come up then and I am sure we can debate the matter to the honourable member's satisfaction. One other point I want to mention is the point raised by the honourable member for Berowra when he wanted to know if the Bill we are now discussing made any difference to the actual amount of the bounty and the significance of the bounty as a protection item. The conversion from imperial to metric measure reduces the effective rate by about 0.02 per kilogram. My own impression was that it made no difference, but that is the exact figure. It reduces the effective rate by 0.02c per kilogram. 
In the right direction, according to the honourable member for Wakefield. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of the statement made today by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  regarding pre-Budget excise clearances of goods on which duties were increased in the Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (e) The Australian Industry Development Corporation reports annually to the Government, giving such information as is required or appropriate in accordance with the provisions of the AIDC Act. These reports are tabled in Parliament. A feature of AIDC's operations is that it is not required or expected to give more detail of its business dealings and affairs than is fully consistent with its role as a commercial operation of similar standing to a public company. The latest information on the activities and affairs of the Corporation is contained in the Corporation's Second Annua] Report relating to the year ending 30 June 1972. The Report has been tabled in the House and copies are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
Details of the remuneration of the Corporation's Executive Chairman are as set out in the 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Representatives have been received from the Victorian Farmers' Union concerning the increasing cost of meat meal. 
The cost of meat meal on the Australian market has increased by 50 per cent during the last six months but it is not known what percentage of this increase is attributable to overseas demand. 
Meat meal is included in the Third Schedule of the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations and consequently cannot be exported unless approval in writing is given by the Department of Primary Industry. The purpose of inclusion of products in the 
Third Schedule has been, in general, to ensure availability of supply in Australia rather than to control prices. Following a recent review of the Australian protein meal situation by officials of several departments, the Department of Primary Industry has intensified its oversight of exports of meat meal to ensure that adequate supplies are available on the domestic market. 
ns -  The answer to the honourable member's question is as Follows: 
The Department of Overseas Trade rents all its office space through the Department of Services and Property, and details in respect of that Department were included in  Mr Daly's  reply. 
The Export Payments Insurance Corporation which is a statutory Authority responsible to the Minister for Overseas Trade arranges its own accommodation and occupies office space in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth. 
The details of buildings occupied and rentals paid by that Authority are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the States the Department of Secondary Industry uses office space Tented by the Department of Services and Property and details were included in  Mr Daly's  reply. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation, which is a Statutory Authority responsible to me, has advised me that it rents office space in Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney. The average rental cost per square foot is $7 for a total area of 19,677 square feet. 
It is true that one of the main purposes of the Australian Industry Development Corporation is, to use a slogan, to 'buy back Australia'. In fact, I think the slogan first came into existence when it was used by the right honourable gentleman's predecessor, the Right Honourable  Sir John  McEwen, who was Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Deputy  Prime Minister and Prime Minister. I think it was he who emphasised that his Liberal comrades in the Government for many years had been allowing- (Opposition members interjecting) 
I am not going into the degree of relationship that exists between the 2 Opposition parties; I am merely assuming appearances. But it was  Sir John  McEwen who correctly emphasised that under a succession of governments in which apparently the Liberals had the majority Australia had been sold; we had been selling a bit of the farm every year. Does the right honourable member remember that expression? So, derived from that background, the main purpose of the Australian Industry Development Corporation was established. I would expect that the Leader of the Country Party would be 100 per cent behind that purpose. 
The amateur banker speaks again. It was he who resisted- 
No, he never said boo when  Sir John  McEwen was here. He resisted what  Sir John  McEwen was trying to do.  Sir John  said boo and the right honourable member was not to be the leader. The right honourable member was not to be Prime Minister while  Sir John  was a member of this House. So it was  Sir John  McEwen who said boo, and that was the end of the right honourable member for Lowe. 
However, I want to assure the Leader of the Country Party that the operation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be carried on with a full sense of national responsibility. The Corporation will not be misused for any purposes. As the right honourable member knows, its functions will be confined mainly to making judgments based on sound commercial principles. Where a judgment is not so based it will be separated completely in a division concerned with the national interest. In some cases we will be concerned to begin or to encourage operations or enterprises which may not pass the normal test of commercial validity. But in such cases the Government will be prepared to accept full responsibility for that. We will be establishing a national interest committee to be in control of this section. 
Yes, quite separate. The committee's purpose will be to advise the Government. I will ensure, while ever I am the responsible Minister, that full and adequate information is given about whatever is proposed. I will stand by the statement that those proposals will pass the test that we apply to them. I think they will have the support of the majority of members of both Houses of the Parliament. 
Yes, the last question was about redeeming investment. The investment to which the right honourable member refers will be investment in the national investment fund. This is something new that is being brought into existence. It did not exist before. It will be under the control of a supervisory council, again separate from the AIDC, and will have a trust responsibility in relation to that fund. The fund will be divided into various sections. Those who will be invited to subscribe to the fund will have clear indications of exactly what they are subscribing to. In some cases such people will be subscribing to a superannuation type fund which will give them a regular income; but they will not have the benefits of quick disposal, nor will they have the benefits of directly accruing capital appreciation in equity. Other projects that will be put up by the national investment fund will be of a venture kind. In some cases the stock will be disposable at market values, as Commonwealth bonds are. In other cases, it may not be. But before a person subscribes he will know exactly what he is doing, exactly what he is buying, exactly what his rights are and exactly what he can do with the stock. 
Yesterday the Minister for Customs and Excise, whom I represent in this matter, made a statement in the Senate. I tabled it in the House last night. It was a statement about the excess clearances on high duty goods that are made, as a rule, in the weeks before the 'Budget is introduced.  Senator Murphy  pointed out that under existing legislation this practice cannot be prevented. He further pointed out that this year it appears that no excess clearances were made by oil companies of petrol and similar products in the pre-Budget period but, between the middle of July and the Budget, duty was paid on significantly greater quantities of both tobacco products and spirits than would have been normally required by consumers. During this period the volume of tobacco products in the hands of distributors and retailers had been increased by the equivalent of approximately 3 weeks normal requirements. The information available at present suggests that the 3 major cigarette companies have not attempted to make windfall profits as a consequence of the higher Budget duties. However, the distributors and retailers of Rothman products on the day before the Budget were holding, on the average, approximately 5 weeks' excess stocks, and ' distributors and retailers of products manufactured by W. D. 6 H. O. Wills and Philip Morris were holding slightly under 2 weeks' supply in excess of their normal stock holdings. 
Excess clearances of spirits were greater than those of tobacco products. Spirit merchants, distributors and retailers are holding approximately 5 weeks' supply in excess of their normal requirements although this figure varies sharply between products of different companies.  Senator Murphy's  statement went on to relate that in the case of both tobacco products and spirits the overall pattern of excess clearances is similar in all States and similar to that which has occurred before every other Budget, whoever leaked the secret. These figures indicate that, on average, higher prices should not be charged for cigarettes and tobacco until early September, and for spirits until the end of September. I stress that. Given the quantities that the companies have withdrawn in the pre-Budget period, higher prices should not be charged for cigarettes and tobacco until early September and for spirits until the end of September. I have stressed the words 'on average'. There will, of course, be retailers and distributors who run out of old stocks of some lines earlier than the dates I have suggested. There will also be many others who will have some stock paid at the lower rate of duty for several months from now. This will be particularly true of many brands of spirits. 
It is important, I think, that this should be known. I know that those interested in spirits, like the honourable member for Boothby, might not want this information to be known, but I suggest that the honourable member have the same kind of respect for me that I will give to him, and 1 promise to repay him in similar coin.  Senator Murphy  went on to point out that steps will be taken to change the legislation to endeavour to prevent this happening in subsequent years. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second  time. Three years ago, when the legislation to establish the Australian Industry Development Corporation was before this House, the Labor Party, then in opposition, welcomed  it  with enthusiasm, but we saw from the beginning that AIDC as then structured could not be expected to stem the rising tide of foreign ownership and control in Australia, let alone reverse it. The Australian Industry Development Corporation was formed at a time of capital scarcity in Australia. Large. blocks of capital were needed for big new mining ventures and, in the main, it had to come from overseas. Whether it was venture capital or loan money, when brought in by foreign corporations it added to foreign control of Australian resources. 
So AIDC was given the job of tapping overseas capital markets for loan funds, and putting these moneys at the disposal of predominantly Australian companies - to help them to undertake, or participate in, new development or expansion. This in itself was an important task. I should think that almost every Australian would have thought that this was an important task and would have been prepared to give it his wholehearted support and to have wished AIDC well in the mission, limited though it was, that it was able then to begin to undertake. I have no doubt that whatever was the possible role of AIDC then, its role will be of even greater importance now 
Industries processing and using mineral resources, for example, require blocks of capital many times larger than those merely extracting raw materials for export. The processing industries are the kind of industrial development we want in Australia - and I think some other countries want it in Australia too - but we also want Australians to share to the greatest extent practicable in the ownership and control, and the rewards of that ownership and control of those operations. We want a fair deal for Australians, and we include Australian capitalists in that desire 
Where there is strong Austraiian participation in the ownership and control of a development, we can expect that development to be directed towards the national interest of Australia, and towards maximising earnings in Australia. Without such Australian participation we will have the prospect of Australian resources and industries being developed to maximise the global profits of multinational corporations, and very often at lower export prices than if we in Australia were able to match a little closer their monopolistic powers. When we are concerned with export prices we are not alone concerned with the export prices of, say, minerals and energy, important as these  aire.  We are concerned with the whole range of exports - wool, wheat, meat and so on - within the wide range of commodities that still remain of importance for Australia in the future and possibly of even greater importance in the future than in the past. It is of course my main responsibility as Minister for Overseas 
Trade to see that Australia's bargaining position is established in relation to all these commodities. 
But AIDC, in its original form, was equipped neither with the functions nor with sufficient financial resources to make the kind of impact on the problems of foreign ownership and control that the Government, and the Australian nation, wished it to make. On the one hand, AIDC just did not have the means of gathering together sufficiently large blocks of entrepreneurial capital for investment in major development. As a borrowing agency, of international stature, it is already well accepted in the capital markets of the world, but it has been restricted in its access to Australian funds, and has not been in a position to invest in the share capital of projects to any great extent. 
Moreover, AIDC has had to operate under restrictions which limited it to investing at the invitation of the company concerned, and to temporary, minority holdings. It could not, for example, act itself as the Australian partner in a joint venture with foreign companies. It has had to decline requests for it to act in this way when other Australian partners could not be found. AIDC has had to decline offers to purchase substantial holdings, including 50 per cent holdings, in companies in Australia at present 100 per cent foreign owned. Under its charter it could only acquire shares when providing finance for a development, or in investing its limited capital funds. And, when it did take shares in a development enterprise it had to try to sell them as soon as it could. One cannot help feeling that these limitations upon AIDC were the result of pressures by business interests which objected to the competition of AIDC and similarly now much of the opposition to an enlarged and expanded AIDC is derived from those whose interests are served by leaving the field alone to the financial giants who increasingly dominate the capitalist world. But it is not in the interests of the Australian people that we should do nothing or limit our own powers in trying to hold our own a little more effectively. 
With its existing limitations it was clearly not possible for AIDC to operate and negotiate on equal terms with the many overseas corporate giants operating in Australia. Nevertheless, what it has been able to achieve even while hemmed in by such restrictions indicates the contribution which an institution such as AIDC, properly equipped, will be able to make in this area of national policy objectives. By offering development finance in suitable 'packages', often containing both loan and equity capital and on terms and conditions tailored to the particular venture, AIDC has been able to help many good projects, large and small, which otherwise could not find suitable finance without selling out to overseas interests. 
Although limited in its own participation, AIDC has often been able to introduce other Australian companies into a project. These companies have contributed to the capital but, more importantly, they have strengthened the management and thus also the financial prospects. To take a few examples, there is a major manufacturing venture in Victoria, over 75 per cent Australian-owned, which was able to proceed only when AIDC brought together the Australian partners. There is an important mineral development in Queensland which needed AIDC at a critical time to avoid diluting the Australian ownership. There is a raw material processing venture in Tasmania which is Australian rather than foreign owned and controlled through the efforts of AIDC. A major resource in Western Australia, yet to be developed, has been brought into the hands of Australian companies, instead of being 50 per cent owned by foreign companies. 
With the obvious potential of AIDC in mind we said in the policy speech that we would expand its activities to enable it to join with Australian and foreign companies in the exploration, development and processing of Australian resources. This objective I believe is supported by over 90 per cent of the Australian people. Australians want us to increase the influence of Australians in our own affairs. Australians want us to be able to stand up for ourselves in world economic affairs which may be vital for us. We also foreshadowed mobilisation of Australian capital by issuing national investment bonds through the expanded AIDC. Our platform spelled out that we would enable ordinary Australians to take part in the ownership, development and use of Australian industries and resources, divert investment by large financial institutions from bricks and mortar into desirable development projects, and make it a primary policy objective of the Corporation to obtain majority Australian ownership and control over existing and future enterprises. 
The Bills I am now presenting represent the fulfilment of these proposals and policies. The first Bill, the one to amend the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act, expands the functions of AIDC. The range of industries in which the Corporation may assist companies is extended to include transportation and distribution and activities related to the industries already in its charter and its original charter theme. Development is a comprehensive word. It does not only mean digging enormous holes, driving huge drills into the earth and sea or producing power. Development is development of people in the social and human sense as well as in the purely material activities related to the industries already in its charter. AIDC is given a second principal function: That of securing the greatest practical Australian participation in the ownership and control of companies engaging in those industries. The Corporation is given power to initiate particular investment proposals itself, rather than having to wait for approaches from companies. It will no longer be required to divest itself of shareholdings it acquires in companies it assists. 
The Corporation will no longer have to borrow principally overseas.. It will, as necessary and convenient, be able to raise money either in Australia or overseas, provided that it acts in accord with the Government's monetary policy, as notified to it from time to time. 
In all of the above, AIDC will continue to be required to act in accordance with sound principles, providing funds only' to those companies or projects which it judges to be efficient and financially sound. All these provisions will enable the Corporation to fulfil more effectively its functions of assisting Australian companies to develop Australian industry. Special attention will be given to encouraging individual enterprise and' supporting smaller Australian businesses in their struggle to compete with local and international giants. Assistance will also be available to establish and expand sound and viable co-operative enterprises. 
We also want AIDC to help implement our policies for industrial development, not to replace private ownership with Government ownership but to help build more productive, more socially desirable, and more positive and progressive Australian industry. To the extent that there is a change in ownership, we will work towards more ownership in the hands of individual Australians. Public ownership in the AIDC area of responsibility would be within the national interest division. But the main general function of AIDC will be directed at strengthening the individual Austraiian enterprise in primary, secondary and tertiary industry so that it may sooner obtain better technology and management and more than hold its own against the conglomerates seeking to exploit it on one side and the consumer on the other. In some cases some action of working together by individual enterprises will be essential, but I consider that the co-operative form of action will be most appropriate and effective. 
Under the provisions of the Bill the Minister will inform the Corporation of Government policy in relation to establishment, development or advancement of an Australian industry. Where it would be in accord with those policies for the Corporation to assist a company or participate in a development project but the Corporation for any reason is unable to help - for example, because the funds required, or the scale of risk, are beyond AIDC's unaided resources - the Bill provides machinery for the Government to ensure that assistance is given. 
A series of provisions will enable the Government, in such cases, to provide the needed capital to AIDC, or to give guarantees which enable AIDC to support the project itself. In this way the Government will be able to make use of the financial skills and industrial knowledge of the Corporation in pursuing Government policy in relation to industrial development and to Australian participation therein. The accounts of such 'national interest' transactions will be kept quite separate from AIDC's other moneys, including the National Investment Fund, and a National Interest Committee will be established to advise the Government on the decision to give support in such cases. In the light of the changed functions of the Corporation, the Board of Directors is to be strengthened by appointing to it the Secretary to the Department of Secondary Industry. This will provide a needed channel of communication between the Board and the Government, enabling the Board to be fully conversant at all times with relevant Government policies. 
The second Bill, establishing the National Interest Fund provides the means of raising the financing AIDC needs to perform its new functions in its main areas. The Bill empowers AIDC to raise funds in a variety of ways, through different divisions of the National Investment Fund. There will, for example, be divisions containing savings plans similar to superannuation and endowment insurance schemes. Contributions to these divisions will be tax deductible within the $1,200 deduction now allowable for payments for superannuation and insurance. Contributions to these divisions will be invested by AIDC in sound developmental projects and other appropriate assets enabling the ordinary Australian to participate in his country's development and secure a return suitable to his need and especially to his needs in the future. 
His rights, including income and equity, will be set out in the contract he has with AIDC and he will know exactly what his position is. Income will be paid to him out of the income earned by the assets in his division of the Fund and he may sell his bond at any time or redeem it at the value of its asset backing. I interpose to point out to the House and to the people that there is an opportunity here for the ordinary citizen to share in the kind of capital appreciation which so far has been confined to a very small percentage of the Australian people. 
The creation of investment bonds will enable the Corporation to support projects that by their nature cannot be financed with borrowed money. It will thus be enabled to play its role in the financing of mineral development and other long term industrial projects. Because an investment bond is not a fixed interest security providing for repayment of a stated amount at a given time but a contractual interest in the value of a given collection of assets and in the income earned by them, it is possible to finance projects with little or no return in the early years but high growth and income at a later stage. Such projects cannot be financed with loan money. Subscriptions to investment bonds as distinct from the superannuation and endowment plans will not be tax deductible, but the Government has decided to contribute $10 to the Fund for every $100 invested in the bonds by individuals resident in Australia. The extra income and capital growth accruing from this Government contribution will flow to the individual investor and when the bonds are redeemed the Government's contribution will be returned to it. Provided the investor holds his bonds for at least 3 years, 'the Govern- ment will bear, to the extent of its contribution, any depreciation in the value of the bonds. The Government's contribution is insurance for 3 years against any risk that the investor might take and increasing the base of his earnings from, say, $100 to $110 during the life of his investment. These measures should provide a powerful incentive to the small investor to put his money into investment bonds, and thereby to seek to achieve the objectives of the AIDC. 
It is also our intention to make appropriate changes to the 30/20 rule to channel towards the Fund some of the very large amounts of capital available to insurance companies and private pension funds for investment. The Treasurer will be discussing this matter with the companies and firms concerned, lt will be the responsibility of the Treasurer, in consultation with these companies and firms, to work out the rate at which the change in the application of the 30/20 rule will apply. The companies and firms concerned will have a full opportunity to have an effective say in what the rate ought to be. 
It will also be possible to use the National Investment Fund as a channel for overseas capital which would otherwise take the form of an equity interest. Where it is desired to finance a particular development project in this way a special division of the Fund could be created. The overseas investor would buy investment bonds in the series in that division and the money raised could be invested in the project. The overseas investor would, in accordance with the terms and conditions of his bonds, be entitled to income earned by the project and to the benefit of growth in its capital value. He would not, however, exercise the control over the project that he could as the owner of ordinary voting shares. Of course, it is not the owner of ordinary voting shares with whom we are really concerned. We are concerned with the owner of a large block of voting shares, who is the very antithesis of the individual in any meaning of the word at all. Australians subscribing to the Fund will enjoy the benefit of investments that have been assessed and selected by AIDC's able and experienced Board. 
Yes. In addition, those investments will have been approved by an independent supervisory council appointed specifically to watch the interests of those who invest in the National Investment Fund and given appropriate strong powers. The council will have a trust responsibility. The Bill provides that the supervisory council will consist predominantly of people whose experience in investment will contribute to the skilful management and investment of the Fund. I have no doubt that suitably skilled and nationally-minded Australians will be willing to serve in this important task. Equally I have no doubt that they will work in harmony with the Board of AIDC to achieve the purposes for which we are building up the Corporation and creating the Fund. 
The Board of the Corporation will continue to be responsible for carrying out the Corporation's functions of developing Australian industry and maximising Australian ownership. It will decide when and how AIDC is to assist companies or participate in projects on the same basis of sound principles as before and will manage AIDC's investments, including those financed by the National Investment Fund or undertaken in the national interest with govermnent money or a government guarantee. It is essential, for the preservation of AIDC's commercial borrowing status and its ability to work in close co-operation with other companies in industrial ventures, that the Board remain free to exercise independent judgment in discharging the commercial aspects of its responsibilities. Where the Government supplies money in national interest cases, of course, the Corporation will be required to use that money for the specified purpose and in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Government. But the Bill is drawn so that in these cases the Government, having made clear what it proposes and why it is acting, will carry the financial responsibilities and risks. The normal commercial funds of AIDC, and lenders who contribute to those funds, are completely protected against any losses or costs that result from national interest investments. 
Not flowing out of national interest investments. The function of the supervisory council will be to protect the interests of subscribers. It will lay down the investment policy to be followed in the use of Fund moneys and any investments not covered by general policies will be subject to individual approval by it. The Bill provides an appropriate balance of powers between the Board and the Council and includes provision for disputes or disagreements to be resolved by ballot of contributors if necessary. 
 Losses will have to be carried by the Fund. 
 Not by general revenue. The function of the National Interest Committee will be to advise the Minister on what government action should be taken in projects which involve the national interest. It is, of course, up to the Government to decide what action it will take in national interest matters. But in every case the Government will first have the benefit and protection of a financial evaluation of the investment by AIDC, as well as the advice and recommendations of the National Interest Committee. 
These arrangements will give every Australian an opportunity to gain a stake in his country's future development by making weekly contributions in a convenient manner, from his pay to a savings plan, or by buying investment bonds. His contribution will be invested in Australian companies and development projects selected for their earnings and capital growth prospects under the supervision of the supervisory council whose duty will be to protect his interests. The Board will represent him and all the other subscribers in exercising control over the companies in which their contributions are invested. This single powerful voice will help to counteract domination by companies, particularly international companies, with large blocks of shares. 
There will also be a number of investment bond divisions of the Fund. For each division there will be a series of investment bonds and a corresponding portfolio of assets. To the investor, investment bonds resemble units in a unit trust although he will have a contract with AIDC rather than an interest in a trust. We look to all Australians to take this opportunity to preserve in Australian hands their great natural heritage and the industries established by the initiative and labour of their fathers. We believe they will gladly help us to ensure that great new Australiancontrolled industries develop alongside the many foreign-controlled giants that already exist and that where it is economically possible and prudent to do so control of industries in foreign hands will be regained. Australian citizens are not being asked in this plan to leave it to the Government. This is not government action over or above or in place of individual action. It is based on the basic assumption that individual action is good but it recognises that the individual today is vulnerable to powerful groups, many of them international, and that if he is to hold his own he needs more strength. He can get some of that strength by working together with other individuals and by being backed by the Government. (Extension of time granted) (Quorum formed) The new plan for AIDC is a plan for individuals to join together and to accept the support of the Government in preserving and extending their own interests with a proper social conscience and awareness of their responsibilities to the people and to Australia. 
I do not pretend that these Bills or these plans are perfect. They are the best we can do at the moment. They will change and grow in the future. I present the Bills to the House now but I have no intention of trying to put them into law quickly or even at the normal rate. I propose to leave continuation of the second reading debate for about three or four weeks so that members of Parliament and of the public will have an opportunity to study the Bills and make any suggestions for improvements. Constructive amendments here or in the Senate will be taken seriously and given careful consideration. Suggestions and assistance from the public will be welcome and will be studied. 
I ask the House and the public to realise the importance of this legislation, not to expect too much of it but not to dismiss it either with that cynicism that has become all too common when any attempt is made to appeal a little to idealism and for genuine cooperation in an effective enterprise. I am sure much good for the Australian community can come from the development of AIDC. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the National Investment Fund to be administered by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I have discussed the National Investment Fund in detail in my second reading speech on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2), the Excise Bill (No. 2), the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) and the Customs Tariff Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 In closing this debate on these 4 Bills I remark that I have been very interested in the debate on the Budget that has taken place this afternoon. There are several points that I should like to mention, one or two general ones and then a couple of fairly specific ones. Everything the Government has done in the last 6 months to deal with inflation has been said by the Opposition to be wrong. But I have yet to hear one constructive suggestion from the Opposition about what should be done. This debate is a good example of that. 
The Opposition is against the imposition of these extra taxes for which the Bills provide. As an alternative to them the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  who speaks for the Opposition on these matters, and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  said that the Government should have cut its expenditure. I asked by interjection: 'In what way?' The honourable member for Berowra gave the Public Service as one example and then turned to the national pipeline as did the honourable member for Canning. First of all, the Government has not spent any money on the pipeline so that could not have contributed much to the present inflation. So we would not have dealt with the inflation as it is by not spending money on the pipeline because we have not spent any on it. The second point about the pipeline is that the honourable member for Canning recognises the need for a pipeline. He said that private companies sought to construct it. But the belief that spending by private companies is any less inflationary than spending by the government is a completely inaccurate view. $1 spent by private enterprise is the same as $1 spent by the Government. Every dollar is equally inflationary. 
I turn to the question of efficiency. We have only a few government enterprises in Australia but does anybody seriously claim that Trans Australia Airlines is less efficient than Ansett Airlines of Australia? Does anyone claim that the Commonwealth Bank is less efficient than any other bank? No, there is silence from the Opposition. Nobody believes that. So the idea that private enterprise is necessarily any more efficient than the government is always disproved by practice. We do not have many examples of government enterprises but every one we do have is efficient. I notice that a very large number of members of the Opposition choose to fly by TAA. So. I dismiss this argument as part of the political clap-trap in which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is the leader of the band. I have never heard anyone better at it than he. 
Let us have a look at these Bills as they stand. Let us look firstly at the Diesel Fuel Tax Bills. Firstly, 80 per cent of the diesel fuel used in Australia is not taxed at all. The only disel fuel that is taxed is that which is used on public roads. The people in the country, for whom the honourable member for Canning has been speaking, have had a pretty good go under Labor. We have not attempted to take lc from the high incomes that they have been receiving throughout this year as a special inflationary measure. They have been subject to exactly the same conditions and principles as everybody else. But I say now that more than 60 per cent of inflation - the honourable member for Berowra dismissed this rather simply - measured in the increases in retail prices of commodities today is inflation from outside. It is imported. Unless we can stabilise the entry of inflation into Australia we will not be able to deal with inflation within Australia. 
We have not taken lc from the growers, the producers or the exporters. As I said, 80 per cent of the diesel fuel used in Australia is not taxed at all. That is the first point. I shall now give examples of the price of petrol around the world to show where Australia stands on this aspect. The prices per gallon are: United States of America, 42c; Britain, 68c; Austria, 59c; Belgium, 79c; Eire, 66c; France, 84c; Italy, 96c; Netherlands, 81c; Sweden, 82c; Switzerland, 71c; Denmark, 76c; West Germany, 68c; Greece, 76c and Australia, 51c. Petrol is available in Australia at a lower price than in almost any comparable country. 
Let us have a look at containing the existing situation. What percentage of the total cost of petrol in comparable countries is attributable to tax? I have figures for some of them. In Britain it is 66 per cent; Belgium, 73 per cent; France, 72 per cent; Austria, 44 per cent and Australia, 46 per cent. 
It will be a question of all sorts of things. I have just been answering and dismissing all the points that have been made in the debate so far. The honourable member for Berowra by interjection wants to introduce a few more. We do not have time for that. The position is that if we look at the matter in simple language, if the goods that are carried in trucks powered by diesel fuel had to be carried on the railways the cost of the railway would have to be paid by those who use them. In the case of roads this is not so and road transport in Australia has had a remarkably good go in that respect. I think that however one looks at the situation, this tax was economically sound and economically justified. It was one of the many measures that had been taken by the Government to deal with inflation, every one of which has been objected to by the Opposition. But no constructive proposals of any significance have ever come from the Opposition before and until they do I think we can continue this debate on another occasion. 

<graphic href="086131197310093_59_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. The effect of the amendments passed by the Senate to the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Bill 1973 is to require all future amendments of the schedule of subsidy rates to be notified to the Parliament in the form of a regulation. Both Houses will thereby have the opportunity to consider amendments and motions of disallowance may be moved. The principal Act, passed in 1965, provided that amendments to the schedule of subsidy rates be notified in the 'Gazette' and this practice has continued to the present time. So the effect of the amendments is to discontinue that practice and provide that future amendments of the schedule of subsidy rates be notified to the Parliament in the form of a regulation. Both Houses thereby will have the opportunity to consider amendments and may move motions of disallowance if they want to do so. The amendments which have been passed by the Senate will add slightly to the administrative process of the subsidy scheme but they are acceptable to the Government. 
 I move: 
I table the report by the Tariff Board on Resins of the Propylene Type. I also table for the information of honourable members the report by the Tariff Board on: 
Resins of the propylene type. 
I recall the predictions of gloom, especially by the Leader of the Country Party in speaking of country factories and the way they would be affected by the 25 per cent tariff cut. I remember also how that was taken up by spokesmen on behalf of the Liberal Party and by some persons in industry as well. I said at the time that I thought we would have good prospects of getting perhaps as much as S400m worth of goods additionally into Australia without it cutting Australian production at all. Up to this point it seems as though that is true. So far, as I was reminded in the question, the truth is that the characteristic feature of the Australian clothing and apparel industry at the moment is that the demand is so high that orders cannot, in many cases, be satisfied before Christmas and, in some cases, until March of next year. There is still throughout industry, and in respect of country factories as much as those in the city, a great excess of demand. I think that the responsibility that the Opposition has is to support action taken by the Government to try to deal with that excess demand, because that is inflationary. 
At present we have had only one firm which has applied to the McBride tribunal for assistance and for some revision of the tariff cut. Up to the time of the last statistics only 25 persons in Australia had registered for unemployment saying that they thought their loss of jobs was related to the 25 per cent tariff cut. The Government instituted, some months back in the early part of this year, a close watch on imports through the Customs Department. We have up to date information about what is occurring. The position is watched closely. In almost every respect where tariff cuts have occurred the situation is still that there is excess demand in industry, so there is no justification for the gloom and doom that show everywhere else except in the financial pages where profits of companies are reported. There we find that they are at record levels. Therefore the predictions made by the Leader of the Country Party - they are never really predictions, just a string of adjectives tied together without any regard to whether they are related to facts at all - have proven to be completely untrue and unjustified. 
It has. been my purpose since I became Minister for Overseas Trade to obtain long term agreements with as many countries as possible for the sale particularly of Australian primary products. I have never been able to understand why this has not been an objective of any preceding government, and especially of those people who make a special claim that they represent producers. I would think that the signing of such a long term agreement for the sale of wheat or any other primary commodity in particular would give producers the chance to anticipate the future and to be better guided by a view of what future demand would be so that when they were planting their wheat and deciding on acreages they could decide on larger acres and larger figures. So, since I became the Minister, I have set out to secure the signing of these long term agreements with other countries. 
I had some little difficulty in persuading the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade,  Mr Pai  Hsiang-kuo, to agree to this principle. He eventually did so but limited it very strictly to 3 years so that, in the event of a change of government in Australia, the position could be re-examined. That is precisely what the Minister for Foreign Trade for the People's Republic of China told me. He also told me, in the presence of the Prime Minister, that the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition on returning from China were a distortion of what he had been told in China. 
So, I am very pleased to be able to announce, as I did at the end of last week, that we have reached agreement to sign a 3- year agreement for the sale of Australian wheat to China. One million tonnes will be sold in the first year, from 1.5 million tonnes to 1.8 million tonnes in the second year, and also from 1.5 million tonnes to 1.8 million tonnes in the third year. This will mean that farmers in Australia, as distinct from those who represent multi-national corporations in the guise of being members of the Country Party, will welcome this knowledge for the future as a thorough basis for their ability to better decide upon more adequate acreages. In my opinion, there is room for great optimism in the future. I hope that producers will respond to the long term basis so that they can plant a greater amount of wheat, sell a greater amount of wheat and enjoy greater prosperity. 
I pointed out in answering my colleague's question that the basis for the signing of the agreement for the sale of wheat was obtained by discussion between myself and the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade. The willingness of the Chinese Government to sign a long term agreement for the first time was secured in that discussion between myself and the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade - and nobody else. Having obtained this, it was then possible for the Wheat Board to go to China and conduct the detailed negotiations necessary to put that agreement into effect. That is precisely what has happened; the Wheat Board has done that. 
I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would be familiar with the terminology that has been used about cost or demand inflation when that terminology has been used to describe inflation caused by an increase in costs in the country concerned, generally claimed to have been caused by wage increases, as against demand-pull inflation when the demand referred to has been essentially an internally generated demand. I made the point on 'Federal File' that in that sense the current inflation was neither a costpush one nor a demand-pull one and that the significant demand that has contributed to the present inflation that we have is the demand that is generated outside Australia, such as the demand for meat, for wool and for other food commodities as well as in some cases a number of other processed and manufactured goods. It is significantly demand from outside Australia. The statistics with which I have been supplied by my Department and which 
I have found elsewhere indicate that about 60 per cent of the increase in the retail price index number relates to commodities for which the demand has significantly increased from outside Australia - especially meat, followed by wool and other foodstuffs. 
The statistics indicate that this is the significant element of the inflation in Australia at the present time. I will make those figures available to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, because I can judge from his question that he needs to have them. I will make sure that he receives them. I also have been advised that if those figures are analysed they show that if only the internally generated part of the inflation operated the inflation in Australia today would be very little above normal. They also show that the characteristic feature of the inflation that exists in Australia today is that it is predominantly externally generated and is part of a world inflationary force from which we have not been able effectively to insulate Australia. 
by leave - As honourable mem bers will be aware, I have recently returned from a series of trade discussions in Japan, in the Republic of Korea, in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and in the People's Republic of China. In view of the importance of the various matters that were raised in these discussions, I am reporting to the House on the outcome of these talks. My prime purpose in Tokyo was to lead the Australian delegation to the Ministerial meeting of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade countries, the main function of which was to launch the latest round of multi-lateral trade negotiations. This conference, in which over 100 countries participated, is perhaps the most important meeting on international trade matters since the Havana and Bretton Woods conferences at the end of the Second World War. Australia is a major trading nation and much of its development and its growth in real income has come about because of its increased participation in the world export and import trade. We, as a Government, have accepted, as our predecessors accepted at Havana and at Bretton Woods, a commitment to a more liberal system of world trade, not simply to benefit our own standards of living but to benefit those of peoples in all countries of the world. 
Australia has expressed concern in the past at the continued persistence of a wide range of tariff and non-tariff barriers in international trade and at the slow rate of growth of trade, particularly with respect to agricultural commodities and to those commodities of importance to developing countries. As far as the developing countries are concerned, past trade and aid policies have done little to improve their relative position and we will need to look more realistically at the major issues that are presented by the imbalance of economic power associated with the large scale, highly organised, usually non-competing enterprise system which characterises the developed countries and which operates to the disadvantage of the economically weak economies and less well organised and more highly competitive enterprises of the developing world. Australia's own actions in reducing tariffs unilaterally were commented upon very favourably by a number of delegates in their statements at the conference including that of  Mr Schultz,  the United States Secretary of the Treasury. It is clear that our actions on trade liberalisation and with respect to developing country preferences have demonstrated in a very real way to developed and developing countries alike, and more realistically than endless amounts of rhetoric, our acceptance of our responsibility as a member of the international trading community. Indeed, this Government has done more in this respect than any other Australian Government and perhaps as much as all our predecessors together. 
As a country for whom agricultural exports remain of basic importance, the reduction of barriers, particularly non-tariff barriers, to agricultural exports is an important objective in the negotiations - and I made it clear that we would need to see real progress made in liberalising trade in these commodities if we were to accept further obligations. Of course, part of the present world inflationary pressures which stem from high food prices, and which are being substantially reflected in price increases in our own domestic economy, can be sheeted home to the past restrictive import policies for foodstuffs of the major industrialised countries. In the case of agriculture and for many industrial commodities of a traditional nature, I pointed to the difficulty for all countries of making further progress in liberalising trade unless a much more realistic approach, indeed a much more humane approach, was taken to the social and political, as well as the economic, problems arising from the adjustment processes brought into play by the freeing of trade. The total inequity of a laissez-faire approach to such adjustment has been recognised in Australia and we have rejected it. In my statement to the GATT conference, I emphasised that in association with the liberalising of trade there was a need - a critical need - for effective systems to attain and maintain proper income levels for workers and for the development of adequate institutions to assist the transfer of resources to more productive uses. Without such institutions and arrangements, resistance to change would not only be strong but it would be justified, since the benefits of change would be shared by all but the costs would be borne by only a few, usually by those least able to bear these costs. The Minister from Sweden joined me in the presentation of this argument at the GATT Conference. We both received expressions of appreciation from the representatives of many delegations for so doing. This is what has happened in the past in Australia and is still happening in most countries - we rely too much upon the market and too much upon the laissez-faire approach. If this situation persists, it will be increasingly difficult to liberalise world trade. 
I was particularly pleased that this fundamental point was taken up by Ministers of countries representing all political and economic groupings. I was also encouraged both in the discussions in the meetings and in talks I had during the course of the meeting with Trade Ministers from other countries by the apparent sense of willingness to face up to the fundamental issues of a more liberal and a more equitable world trading economy. I came away from the GATT conference feeling optimistic about this and appreciating the realism of the approach of so many nations to the question. While in Tokyo, I had also an extensive series of discussions with Japanese government and business leaders. I was interested in the similarities and the complementaries of the Japanese and Australian economies. Of course, there are also major differences. Australia, like Japan, is committed to some restructuring of its economy, but they are different economies and have different structures. Japan's economy is moving in the direction of further development of, and dependence upon, its human resources and upon high technology production. This is partly an inevitable consequence of the pattern of economic growth; but it is also a result of the determination of a very active Japanese community to see that government and industry leaders adopt a genuine social or community responsibility arid limit industrial intensification and pollution. The significant thing in Japan is that government and industry leaders have conceded this to the Japanese people and have accepted the need to modify purely economic criteria as the standard and measure of what is done and adopt a policy to improve the quality of life by a genuine internationalisation of the Japanese economy. 
Australia's economic growth will continue for some time to be based more substantially upon its natural resources and on the conversion of these resources to processed materials and finished goods. It seems clear to me that as Japan moves out of the processing and production stages in certain fields, there will be increased opportunities for Australia to move in and replace that production with our exports. This will help our development. It will help our standard of living. It might also help Japan to avoid further difficulties with her trade balance as well as ease her critical environmental problems. It was significant that as I left Tokyo a Trade Development Council Mission from Australia organised in cooperation with my Department, was arriving to further develop trade contacts. This development of the Japanese economy into an international context can be in the national interests of Australia. Japan has, and must continue to have, a big part in the economic development of Australia, but this must be accommodated to a number of Australian requirements. First, there is a need to prevent pollution, conserve our resources and protect the environment even in the most remote areas of Australia. We will not import pollution into Australia, nor will we dispose of our resources too fast or to the highest short term bidder, nor will we erode our environment and transform it into holes, cuts and gashes. Second, the Australian Government will exercise a more significant role. The Australian Government from time to time elected, is the most effective voice of the Australian people and sometimes the only one they have. Consequently, it must exercise powers in this vital area. Our resources are the foundation of our future. They cannot be left only in the hands of multi-national corporations or even Australian corporations and to reflect little more than the voice of a few shareholders. Third, although developed countries like Japan and large countries like China will be very important in the future, Australia must not be concerned with them alone. 
We must be concerned to see that the small, the poorer - the developing countries - are treated fairly and are not denied access to the fuels and minerals that we export and which they will need for their development, but, which, to a significant extent, they are denied access. Again, if this is to be done, the Australian Government must play a part not only in influencing the flow of investment but in influencing the flow of exports too, because overseas investment does not only result in control of the industry in Australia, but it results in control of the flow of exports too. The multi-national corporations do not just buy a piece of Australia; they buy control of our exports as well. In general terms, 'the relationship between overseas investment and exports can be beneficial to Australia in helping to secure market outlets and so helping to plan a more orderly production pattern. It can also have disadvantages for the reasons I have given and it is a proper role for Government to play that it should influence the balance of these benefits and disadvantages in its investment and export policies. 
There was a very considerable interest on the part of both government and business leaders in Japan in the new policies of the Australian Government with respect to overseas investment. I might add that there was considerable understanding generally of the whole range of our export policies and a recognition that at this stage of the development of new policies over a range of fields it is not possible or reasonable to expect that the full details of all these policies would have been worked out. Investment policy is one such example on which there was a very clear and ready acceptance by the Japanese leaders to whom I spoke that we would need further time before we could spell out in full our policies. The broad principles are, of course, clear. There is no difference of opinion or confusion whatsoever about the broad principles except that which is created by unthinking critics or by our political opponents. 
The Australian Government recognises the value of foreign investment and technology in assisting development, but it would wish to see a higher level of Australian ownership, both by Australian companies and the Australian public, and by the Australian Government through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, especially in uranium, oil, natural gas and coal. I, for my part, indicated that we recognised that much of the concern by the Japanese to seek substantial investment participation in Australia was as a means of ensuring their security in the supply of agricultural, industrial and mineral raw materials. I see this concern for assurances with respect to the supply of raw materials as a legitimate concern on the part of the Japanese and one which this Government is -prepared to cooperate fully in helping to meet since we are similarly interested in long term assurances of market opportunities for our exports for the reasons that I gave in answering questions today. We would apply the same principle to other countries. Our common interests in assured commodity trade can be met in a number of possible ways, such as through existing private long term contracts, government backed long term bilateral agreements or multilateral commodity arrangements; through some combination of these or by other mutually beneficial methods, including, of course, investment from overseas. 
We have to recognise more formally the great interdependence of economies like the Japanese and the Australian and, indeed, the complementarity of these economies which, for our part, will reflect itself in economic development in Australia which is related to the opportunities in Japan, often involving a flow of Japanese technology to this country. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, and it was a view that I myself put whilst in Tokyo, that we can see benefit in the broad principles of the growing and mutually advantageous political, economic and cultural relationship between the 2 countries being expressed in a new and broader treaty arrangement such as a treaty of friendship and Cooperation. I also expressed my view, and this is quite separate and distinct from the treaty of friendship and co-operation, that we would need to review the existing trade agreement with Japan since, while it has served us well in the past, in the future it will need to reflect more closely the growth and development of the trading inter-relationships between our 2 countries. 
Whilst in Japan, I discussed with both the Nissan and Toyota motor vehicle companies the decision which the Government recently made concerning its policy aims for the motor vehicle industry in Australia. I made it quite clear that any company, including the Japanese companies, which conformed with the Government's policy criteria would be very welcome to engage in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. Both companies assured me that they were anxious to co-operate in this way, even to matters of detail, with the Australian Government and to achieve their aim of establishing motor vehicle manufacturing facilities in Australia. 
Yes, whatever the requirements we have laid down, such as the reference to decentralisation, the Japanese companies were far more willing and ready to co-operate with those requirements than any others to which I have spoken. 
Turning now to my visit to the Republic of Korea, I led the Australian delegation to the bilateral trade discussions provided for under the trade agreement between Australia and the Republic of Korea. I was able to explain to the  President  of the Republic, Prime Minister and Ministers of that country the benefits which we would expect that country to gain from the trade liberalisation measures that we had taken, including the 25 per cent tariff cut and the preference scheme for developing countries. As a result, it can be expected that trade between our 2 countries, and in both directions, would continue to grow, but in ways the Governments of both countries - the 
Republic of Korea and our own - will watch, supervising that development and ensuring that it takes place in the interests of both countries. 
There was a very clear expression of a desire on the part of their Ministers for a further expansion of contractual arrangements for the supply of raw materials, particularly such items as iron ore, coking coal - for which contracts already exist - and for non-ferrous metals such as manganese, as well as agricultural commodities such as sugar. Following on these talks, the Republic of Korea proposes to send to Australia in the near future a resources study mission for discussions with appropriate Government departments, marketing agencies and business enterprises. 
Considerable interest was also expressed in the possibilities of Australian investment in the Republic of Korea and I expressed the Government's view that we would welcome investment by Australian companies in that country as we do in every country, subject only to our wish that it should represent joint venture projects and should recognise the national objectives and economic planning priorities of the Republic of Korea. Some discussion was also held on the desirability of updating the existing trade agreement with a view to the inclusion of specific provisions for investment, as well as changing its emphasis in the light of the growth in our trade and the new policies of this Government, and this will be followed up in subsequent discussion at the official level. 
The visit to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was a particularly important one, I think, as the first visit by an Australian Minister ever to that country and as the first ever official Australian mission. I visited North Korea at the invitation of Minister Kye Ung Tae, Minister for Foreign Trade, whose invitation I was pleased to accept as a means of developing contacts with that country and to explain the policies of the new Australian Government. Most directly, of course, I was there as Minister for Overseas Trade with the aim of furthering our contacts through the expansion in two-way trade. I was able to talk to the Prime Minister and the 2 deputy Prime Ministers responsible respectively for economic and foreign affairs, as well as to Minister Kye and each of these Ministers put to me his views on the problem of the reunification of Korea. 
There is no doubt that the relations between the North and the South in Korea are an acute and difficult problem. I expressed the 
Australian Government's view, as I had in the Republic of Korea, that Australia stood for a policy of mutual respect and was opposed to outside interference in the affairs of other countries. I said that we supported the reunification of Korea by peaceful means without confrontation and saw the value of a continuing dialogue between the 2 governments with a many sided interchange between the North and the South in the political, military, diplomatic, economic and cultural fields. I pointed out the harm done in the whole world of international relations by confrontation in Korea and indicated the connection between it and the 'cold war' which had poisoned the world for so long. I found the leaders of the governments both in the south and north of Korea were concerned to keep the 'dialogue' between them going on and to keep their relations at a political level. This is in the interests of international trade as well as in the interests of peaceful and friendly international relations. 
In the detailed discussions on trade matters with the Ministers of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, we considered the question of trade representation in our 2 countries. While in Australia earlier this year the DPRK Trade Delegation- had requested approval for the establishment of a trade office in Australia. I was able to indicate to the DPRK that we were agreeable to the establishment of such an office, but that in the absence of full diplomatic relations between the two countries it would not be possible to accord diplomatic immunity and associated privileges to their representatives. For this reason, the DPRK has indicated its unwillingness to establish a trade office until such status and privileges are available. This, of course, would be possible only if full diplomatic relations were established between us. I can understand the position of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; in its position I probably would take a similar attitude. 
At the same time, I would have liked to see a DPRK trade office established in Australia as a ready means of developing our trade. Nevertheless, Minister Kye - and I are both of the view that trade between our 2 countries, which is presently very small, can in any case be expanded significantly. The DPRK has expressed interest in long term contracts for what they call lumpy iron ore and some other minerals, as well as in purchases of wheat. For its own part it has a highly developed metallurgical and machine tool industry and would be able to supply to Australia a wide range of machinery, high grade steels, railway rolling stock, engines both diesel and electric, building materials and manufactured goods. A sale of some machine tools recently was made by the DPRK to Australia. 
The key to the realisation of this mutual trade potential is the development of trade contacts with the DPRK, as it is with every other country. In the absence of a DPRK trade office in Australia, this contact must remain somewhat remote. The emphasis in this contact will have to be, for the time being, largely at the business level and I am at present having examined the best means of encouraging such contact. It was necessary, in order to travel to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, to pass through China where I was able to renew contacts, particularly with the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade, Minister Poi Hsiang-kuo, and with the Foreign Minister, Chi Peng Fei. It is particularly pleasing to me .to see the way that trade with China has developed this year. Representatives of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd were in Peking during my stay. An Australian Wheat Board mission was expected shortly after and the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade expressed his satisfaction at the way the twoway contacts were developing over a range of commodities. All Australian officials and others in China have witnessed in recent weeks and months the increasing willingness of the Chinese to assist Australians in everything they are trying to do and the extremely friendly relations that they exhibit towards Australians at every level. 
As I announced last week, real progress has been made towards finalising a 3-year long term wheat agreement with the Chinese and indeed agreement has already been reached with the Chinese on the signing of this agreement. This will be the first time that Australia has negotiated such an agreement with China and it is an historic step in the development of trade relations between our 2 countries. It represents the largest amount of wheat ever sold by Australia at the one time to any country. 
Whilst overseas, I saw Prince Norodom Sihanouk. With him and with others both in South and North Korea and with the Chinese Foreign Minister, I had discussions about the relations of their countries with other countries. This was done with the approval of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I have reported to the Prime Minister on these discussions, but it would not be appropriate for me at the present time to state any details. 
In all the countries that I have visited and in my contacts with Ministers from other countries, I found an appreciation of and a lively interest in the policies of the Australian Government. Ministers at all levels in the countries I have visited, including and especially South Korea, expressed their approval of the stand taken by the present Australian Government and exhibited their view of the very great potential Australia has to broaden and deepen its relations with countries on both sides of the old Iron Curtain or cold war divisions that this in fact represents. They saw a significant role for Australia to play, especially in that field. There is no doubt that Australia's standing in the trading world of today is higher than it has been before and provides a solid basis for continued growth and development of our trade and of the standards of living of all people, especially those in the Pacific and Asian area and in the developing countries. I present the following paper: 
Minister for Overseas Trade - Trade DiscussionsMinisterial Statement, 15 October, 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I remind the honourable member that at the moment the only motion before the House is that the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 I know that in debating this motion I can take 20 minutes but that would be 20 minutes of the time which should be used in debating the Bill. I do not want to take up the time of the House now. If the Opposition is ready to have the question on this matter put we will put it now so that we can get straight on to debating the Bill. On the other hand, if the Opposition wants to continue debating this motion, there are things which I would like to say about it. However, I do not want to take the time of the House in doing so. 
Do not talk like a larrikin. The honourable member has been behaving like a larrikin for weeks. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is far too much across-the- chamber conversation. This only inhibits the debate and it makes it difficult for the Chair to control the House. 1 call the Minister. 
I do not want to take up the time of the House. If the Opposition is prepared to decide this question now we will go on to debate the Bill. 
Is the Opposition prepared to decide it now or not? If not, we will take the time. 
I am quite sure that the honourable member would be very much at home. I think the Opposition has taken a very rigid position on this legislation. It has decided to reject the 2 Bills lock, stock and barrel. It is not prepared seriously to consider taking a constructive attitude to the Bills. Honourable members opposite described these Bills yesterday in the most extravagant terms which indicated in many cases that the honourable members who spoke had not even read the Bills or that, if they had read them, they did not understand them. They took an unequivocal position of opposition. There was nothing of a constructive nature that they wanted to offer. Therefore it seems to me that as far as this House is concerned and the Opposition in it the use of time in the Committee stages would be unjustified anyhow in view of the position which the Opposition has taken. It has taken a position in which it rejects the 2 Bills completely. So how can the Opposition pretend that it wants to use the Committee stages for the purpose of putting amendments? What is more, the Opposition has had 5 or 6 weeks in which to study these Bills. I announced when I introduced the Bills that I wanted them to be studied. I expected that members of the Opposition would adopt a constructive attitude towards them. 
Yesterday we offered to make available to the Opposition officers of the Department and of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to discuss the matter with Opposition members and as far as I know that offer was not taken up by anybody. It is quite clear to me that the Opposition does not want to debate these Bills constructively; in fact it only wants to use the time to misrepresent the meaning of the Bills and to give a distorted impression of the Bills to the Australian people and to the Parliament. I have very little sympathy for the kind of speeches that I heard on these Bills yesterday. They contributed nothing to the debate. If we continue the debate under those circumstances nothing will be contributed. It seems completely ridiculous to me that the Opposition has taken the stand that it rejects the 2 Bills completely. Honourable members opposite have said time and time again that they will not have a bar of them. Then they pretend that they want to use the Committee stages for the purpose of putting amendments. 
The fate of these Bills will be decided in the Senate, not in this place. It is important for the Government that the legislation should get to the place where the decision will be made so that the Senate will have the maximum possible opportunity to exhibit a constructive attitude to these measures as I am satisfied it will. That attitude will be far superior to the negative, distorting kind of treatment that was given yesterday to these Bills by honourable members opposite. I am extremely disappointed that the Opposition was unable to produce during the course of the debate yesterday afternoon one speaker who was able to show any constructive understanding of what is being attempted by this legislation. The Opposition has had sufficient time to blackguard and slander everybody associated with this legislation in the manner in which honourable members opposite did yesterday and, frankly, I am not concerned to give the Opposition any more time to do this. 
 I refer to the first part of the amendment first. Over a long period the Government has given consideration to the proposal that the Secretary of the Department of Secondary Industry should be on the Board of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and, more recently, to a proposal that the Secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy also should be on the Board. The Austraiian Industry Development Corporation is a public corporation. It has been set up by the Government of Australia with the approval of a great many members of the present Opposition. It has a responsibility as a public corporation. It is not merely a group of people who have responsibility in a private or commercial sense. It is true that their judgment must be exercised according to commercial principles. But that does not mean that they should be solely private, commercial or industrial people. It is a public corporation. All the members of the Board could have been government-type people, but the alternative was chosen because it is a corporation which is working very closely with industry and a corporation which has to a very large extent won the confidence of industry, although its operations are not great. It has only about S53m outlaid at the present time. The second reason why we considered this to be desirable is as follows: I do not know what was the experience of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  when he was a member of the previous Government, but my experience with departments and departmental heads has been that they are extremely competent people. 
They have a very experienced and capable judgment to exercise. I think the Corporation would gain if it had such men exercising their judgment, along with others, on its Board. There is room for 11 members on the Board, apart from these two. They will be two out of 11, 12, 13 or whatever it might happen to be. As far as I am concerned as the Minister, they will be free to exercise their judgment as responsible people. I would not at any stage attempt to influence their judgment. I would be very unfavourable if anyone else tried to exercise their judgment. I ask the Opposition to have a little respect for the Government as well as for itself in this respect. In saying that, I expect it to take that as being a statement of what will actually happen. 
The third reason for wanting to include the heads of these 2 departments is that their departments are departments which have, to my knowledge and I am sure to the knowledge of some of those who sit opposite, a great ability to know the field of minerals and energy in one case and secondary industry in another and to know what is desirable to be done, lt is proper that they should be able to bring their knowledge and experience as the heads of 2 departments working continually in the field of minerals and energy on the one hand and secondary industry on the other to the use and service of the AIDC. It seems to me that there are 3 strong reasons - I can mention quite a number of others but I feel I do not want to take up time doing so - why the Government should take the decision it has taken. I do not mind reassessing it and looking at it again. Between now and the time of the Bill being introduced in the Senate I will do that. But I feel quite convinced at this stage that the decision made by the Government in this respect is a sound one. 
I turn to the comments about the AuditorGeneral. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition will have noticed that we have provided in the National Interest Division that the auditing shall be done by the Auditor-General because the National Interest Division will be concerned alone with transactions in relation to which the Government is guaranteeing the AIDC or where the Parliament will be appropriating funds out of its own sources - from revenue or from wherever else it may be able to acquire funds. The National Interest Division will be a public funds area. Therefore it is quite appropriate that the auditing there should be done by the Auditor-General. The previous Government - I understand its view on this was quite developed and incisive - con sidered that it was inappropriate to have other than a legally qualified private auditor auditing in the private area. 
The other part of the AIDC's operations is a private area. It acquires considerable knowledge. In its books it has a considerable amount of detail on private companies in which it is investing. Because private interests are involved, because private companies come into the relations with the AIDC and because the AIDC's records have extensive information - sometimes very extensive information - about these private companies, I have accepted the previous Government's view that the auditing here should be done by a legally qualified private auditor. The AIDC has, as I understand it, one of the auditors most respected in the business community. Frankly, I see no reason to change the position with respect to the part of the AIDC's operations that involves private transactions in which decisions are carried out on ordinary commercial principles and in relation to which so much private information is available. It was a principle that the AIDC's operations in this field should not be opened too much or in an unlimited way even to the scrutiny of the Parliament. It makes reports to the Parliament and the Parliament can act on those reports. If it thinks anything is wrong it can bring people to the bar of the House or set up a committee of inquiry into the AIDC. The Government which enacted this legislation was careful to ensure that we do not go too far. As I see it, it is best to leave it as it is. 
 I do not want to take up too much time but, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said, 2 points are significant in respect of his amendment. The first is a widening of the operational scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Previously, it was fairly narrowly limited to development of resources, and clause 5 widens its scope. It refers to manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources. This is a reflection of the view of the Government that development is not merely digging holes in the ground and getting the stuff out. Development, as we have found in the Pilbara region, includes the building of an infrastructure. There are such things as railway lines in the Pilbara area; there are machines that carry iron ore for long distances; there is the building of ports; there is the shipping of the stuff away. 
Well, I am saying what I have in mind and what the Government has in mind. 
No, I do not have that in mind; I am not thinking of motor cars. I am thinking of railways, of the machines that are used to transport material on the ground, and of ships. These are areas in which I would expect the Opposition too to be interested in increasing the Australian component that is involved in it, in being able to provide through the AIDC a way of building the infrastructure of a place like the Pilbara region, which has caused difficulties for the companies operating there and for the Western Australian Government. So, there is a strong reason why transportation for development projects of that kind should be included. It would be a great advantage if the AIDC, raising money effectively in Australia, could direct it into those regions. 
The other part of the Bill to which the amendment of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition relates is the section of clause 5 that gives the AIDC power to form a company. Frankly I had nothing whatever to do with this amendment. It has come from AIDC because the Corporation has found, in the conduct of its operations under the old Act investing in companies, that the time has arrived when, in order properly to safeguard and look after its interests it has faced problems which required it to have these powers. This is something that has come up in the normal commercial operations of AIDC. The amendment is not part of my thinking. It is before the House because the AIDC Board and  Sir Alan  Westerman believe that to do their job properly they need these powers. 
If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were in the same position as  Sir Alan  Westerman, if he were conducting a business of his own and if he found that in the interest of his business he needed to be able to do these things, he also would seek an extension of his powers. The AIDC is a public corporation that we have a right to protect, and we have a right to give it the type of powers that it believes it properly needs in order to conduct its affairs properly. That is why this proposal is before us. It has nothing to do with socialism. I do not know whether the  Chairman  would want me to relate to that. Anything in the nature of socialism would take place under the section relating to the national interest. There would be no proper use of the part of the AIDC in which the Board exercises its judgment on commercial grounds for any socialist purpose. The members of the Board are people such as  Sir Colin  Syme and  Sir Charles  McGrath, who is better known to the Liberal Party than he is to me. I am satisfied with the way .in which those people have done their job. As far as I am concerned, it will be those kinds of people, and others as well, who will be on the Board of AIDC. They are the kind of people whom we will reappoint when the time comes. 
The Government is not concerned to use that part of AIDC for anything that the Opposition would describe as socialist. I think it is time that we had some things in Australia that the Opposition would call socialist. I think the great majority of the Australian people would be much happier if we had a public interest in the great national resources of this country; if we had a public interest in uranium and the eventual setting up of- - The  CHAIRMAN  - I ask the Minister to come back to the clause, otherwise he will be opening the matter much wider. 
I know that we are restricted very often, as the Opposition is restricted, because of the time available and the proper procedures of this House. I do not feel annoyed because I could have predicted yesterday almost word for word exactly what members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would have said. Everything was predictable. But it is a bit disappointing when one looks at the situation in that way. I give the Government's assurance that nothing that the Opposition would describe as socialistic will be done by the National Interest Division, and that we will not misuse the AIDC for something that it was not intended to do in any other respect. 
 I do hope that a lot of people are listening to the radio this afternoon because in recent times we have had the extraordinary record of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  neither of whom previously had used this style of addressing the House like a bellowing bull, without any attention to details or facts and without any logic, but merely making unconnected assertions one after the other, in which every second word is an adjective. When they are not addressing the House in this style they sit constantly interjecting as they are doing now. lt is a long time since I have heard in this House such an unruly performance from every corner of the Opposition benches as I have heard in recent weeks. Frequently we have heard that high pitched voice that comes from the honourable member for New England. When listening to the radio, I find constantly repeated that high pitched voice, full of synthetic emotion. I have heard the honourable member for Flinders who previously was a Minister time and time again approaching this table, roaring into the microphone believing that this is an effective way of appearing to convey to the people outside that there is a strong Opposition in action. I believe that the people outside this Parliament do not accept this as evidence of a strong Opposition. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has just been telling us how much support we have lost in the country. What a wonderful technique this is. If you say a thing often enough and long enough, the argument is that somebody is going to believe you. This cacophony of interjections that comes from the Opposition is ever present. Of course, listeners will be well aware that all the noise they are hearing on the radio these days is coming from the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. It is well known by anyone who is aware of electoral figures that any government in office loses support at by-elections. I remind the honourable member for Ballaarat, who is trying to interject, who has never been distinguished by his contributions to this House and who had less success in the lobbies of power than he had here in the forum of this national Parliament, of this fact. I would seriously ask the experts in psephology - the study of electoral affairs - as I have seriously asked members of the Opposition, to study those by-election results a little more. It is well known that some 5 per cent or 6 per cent fewer people vote in by-elections than in general elections. It so happens that at the Parramatta by-election 7 per cent or 8 per cent fewer people voted than normally. At the Greensborough by-election 6 per cent or 7 per cent fewer people voted than normally. The situation in a general election is totally different. In a general election the Prime Minister of the nation and the Leader of the Opposition - one only has to put them together- 
It is up to the Opposition. It amuses me to hear the honourable member or Kooyong says: 'Let us have an election now'. Whether we have an election now is up to the Opposition. If it wants to have an election now, it is in its hands to have one. There is nothing holding it back. 
 In some ways this amendment, which the Government cannot accept, brings out the essential feature of this Bill. What the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  wants is that the normal conventional method of gathering together funds from the community should prevail and that it should not be modified or interfered with in any way. The Government cannot accept that. The Government agrees that the establishment of the National Investment Fund can be expected to increase the proportion and the aggregate of funds available for a public authority created by the will of this Parliament, a public authority which expresses as well as anything can express the will of the people because this Parliament expresses as well as anything can the will of the people. It seems to me that the Australian people have already clearly indicated that whilst they are happy and satisfied with the general private enterprise nature of the economy, they want to see a properly constituted public authority express a little more power and a little more competitive influence in this situation. 
Over many years opinion has grown that if we leave the resources of this nation to the free enterprise system they will become increasingly under the control of a few people and a few companies and that significantly those companies will be controlled from overseas. In the House yesterday the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  quoted statistics that are now well known. They concern the basic resources of this nation. He pointed out that 100 per cent of the companies that own bauxite resources in Australia are controlled from overseas; 83.6 per cent in the case of copper; 64 per cent in the case of ilmenite; 49.19 per cent in the case of iron ore; 74.7 per cent in the case of lead; only 7.4 in the case of nickel, through the initiative of a particular Australian company which deserves great credit; 86.76 per cent in the case of rutile; 75.8 per cent in the case of tin; 29 per cent in the case of tungsten; 71.59 per cent in the case of zinc; 78.5 per cent in the case of zircon; 23.8 per cent in the case of black coal in New South Wales; and 88.2 per cent in the case of black coal in Queensland. 
This is what is known as the sellout of Australia. It is a sellout which members of the Opposition now and when they were in government have been ready to see continue.  Sir John  McEwen was not ready to see this continue. He is a great Australian. He saw it as necessary to bring into existence the Australian Industry Development Corporation to try to hold the pass against this development. But, as I pointed out yesterday, the Australian Industry Development Corporation has had its hands tied even in relation to what  Sir John  McEwen wanted to do. At the present time it is able to provide only about $53m to attempt to hold the pass. Unless this Corporation receives a greater amount than that, the pass will not be held and finally this country will be sold out. The significance of that is that we no longer will have any control over the prices of our basic minerals and of our basic energy and fuel resources. So I reject completely the idea that the Opposition expresses in this amendment, namely, that we should agree to tie the hands of this Corporation. 
We want to establish a National Investment Fund with a part of it which allows the Fund to provide for contributors on a superannuation or retirement basis. There is no earthly reason why this national Parliament should not set up a corporation that is able to do this. Why should it be left only to a few large insurance companies? What is there about them that is private enterprise? They are enormous corporations which are the very antithesis of private enterprise. They are a group of people who are responsible to no one and over whom no one has any influence whatever. 
As everyone knows, their shareholders have no influence at all over them. They are run by professional managers in the interests of the corporations, and very often they are run in the interests of the corporations very well indeed. 
Those are deceptive words. These corporations show no participation by the citizens of this country in their operations. They are run by professionals - competently run - as large business organisations. 
We believe that in this field there ought to be a little competition with these enormous corporations which have such complete control over such a vast amount of funds. That is not free enterprise. It is not private enterprise. But that is what honourable gentlemen opposite stand for. I am afraid that they are the spokesmen for large monopolistic organisations that are the very antithesis of the principle of liberalism. 
There is no purpose, in this Bill or by this Government, of introducing any kind of an alternative; but we believe that the people of Australia through this Parliament should have a little more say in what is going on in the allocation of resources. In relation to these particular funds, where does the money go? It goes predominantly into building up the urban centres, building up skyscrapers - those massive structures of steel and concrete that are being built long ahead of the need. Thousands of square feet of office space that has been made available is not being used and is not likely to be used. It is well beyond the need. Yet, in the housing sector, for which members of the Opposition say they have some sympathy, and do have some sympathy, but which in practice they will not do the things necessary to shift resources into- 
We are not. 
For a long time the right honourable gentleman supervised a Treasury that gave him exactly the same advice as it has given to us, which advice he accepted time and again. 
The argument that if there is surplus liquidity or surplus money in the community one way of getting it back is to increase the interest rate. I have heard the right honourable gentleman, when he was on this side of the House, time and again put forward that argument. It is insincere on his part now, merely because he finds himself in Opposition, to begin questioning something that he has accepted throughout the whole of his life since he first began to study economics at the University of Sydney some 35 years ago. I know how well the right honourable gentleman, who was Prime Minister of this country- 
Well, 25 years- but it looks longer.- 1 know how well the right honourable gentleman has been brought up on the theory of neo-classical economics. I know how completely he subscribes to the theory that if one wants to draw off surplus money or surplus liquidity one increases the interest rate. I have heard him say it a dozen times from this dispatch box. I will not take any notice of a man who changes his expression merely because he changes his place in the House. I do not think that point needs any further attention. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may  I  have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions, of course, may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  I  suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Export Papyments Insurance Corporation 
Act 1956-1972, I have pleasure in presenting the seventeenth annual report of the Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the AnditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 17 (1973). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals which I have just moved related to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1972. These amendments arise from the Government's acceptance of reports by the Tariff Board on: Lightning Arresters; and prepared additives for mineral oils, etc. In its report on lightning arresters the Board recommended that  a  slightly larger range of lightning arresters be brought within the existing protective rate of 20 per cent (reduced in  July  by the 25 per  cent  tariff cut). For lightning arresters having a current rating greater than five kilo-amperes minimum rates of duty were recommended. On prepared additives for mineral oils  the  Board recommended that protection be granted to viscosity index improvers and pour point depressants  at  a general rate of 15 per cent pending  a  further review in about 3 years time. The Board made no recommendations on antiknock preparations based on tetraethyl-lead or tetramethyllead because they had been reported on by the Board as recently as 1971. The Board recom mended no assistance on the remaining goods under reference. 
In accordance with Australia's trade agreements, a margin of preference is being provided in favour of New Zealand on nonprotected items. However, pending possible representations from New Zealand to the effect that it has an important trade interest in the goods concerned, provision is being made for these goods to be admitted free of duty under bylaw. As these reports were received prior to 19 July the duties will be subject to the provisions of the 25 per cent tariff cut. The new duties will operate tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes and duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I table the reports by the Tariff Board on: 
ABSEmpolymers, Etc.: 
Lightning Arresters; and 
Prepared Additives for Mineral Oils, Etc. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
The Government has a mandate to do something about the sell 0U of Australian resources to overseas interests. This was one of the matters that was clearly stated in the policy of the Australian Labor Party and was clearly stated in the policy speech of the Prime Minister. The Government acquired a mandate to strengthen and extend the Australian Industry Development Corporation for this purpose. The Australian electorate understood this. The Australian Parliament understood this. Bills were introduced for this purpose on 30 August. The debate was adjourned on that date to give everybody in both Houses of the Parliament a thorough opportunity to study and examine the 2 Bills that were submitted to achieve this purpose. Each of the Parties in the Parliament was given an opportunity of meeting officers of the Department of Secondary Industry and of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to have explained each aspect of the Bills. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party did not avail themselves of that opportunity. 
You could still be studying them now if you wanted to do so. The debate on the Bills has not been concluded. They are still in the Senate. You have had plenty of opportunity to take advantage of this arrangement if you wanted to. In fact, the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate took an opportunity to consult with the officials of the Department and spent several hours doing so. The DLP senators also spent a considerable time talking to me about the Bills. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party were not in the least interested in the content of the Bills. They decided, without adequate consideration, to oppose and reject the Bills completely. They did that because they are acting as agents of foreign corporations. When the very restricted legislation that established the AIDC was introduced into the Party rooms most of the honourable members who now oppose the Government's legislation opposed the legislation that was submitted because of the determination of  Sir John  McEwen and later  Mr Gorton  to introduce it. Almost every honourable member opposite did his best to destroy the legislation at that time when there was no possibility of seeing it as an instrument of nationalisation. But in those days almost everyone in the Liberal Party did his best to destroy that legislation. They were led by the right honourable member for Lowe who has been both a close associate of the Australian financial institutions that carry the business of overseas investment and acts as a spokesman for those institutions in this Parliament, and always has done so. He fought in every way that he could to prevent McEwen and Gorton from introducing that legislation in Parliament. He is nodding his head in agreement with that. The present legislation does 2 things. It provides, first of all, an opportunity for the ordinary Australian citizen to invest in the ownership of his own country, and to give him an opportunity to do that so that he can benefit not only from agreed rates of return but also from the improvements from the capital gains on his investment. 
Of course, for 18 years 1 have listened to Ministers on this side of the House taking every advantage of question time and I have watched the honourable member for Bradfield listen for hours and days and months and years to that being done without making an objection.  His  spurious indignation now that he is on the Opposition side does not count with me at all. 
It is apparent that the right honourable member for Lowe knows nothing more about taking a point of order than a member of a junior boys' debating society. He has exhibited that 3 times already this morning. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill is still before the Senate. As I said when it was introduced in this chamber, the Government is interested in any constructive proposals that the Opposition, either here or in the Senate, can put forward to improve that Bill, but it is not interested in the type of 'behaviour that was exhibited here during the course of the debate when no member of the Opposition sought to make any submission at all. 
The Bill is at present before the Senate. 
If the Leader of the Country Party desires to make this a political issue I am quite sure that the people of Australia will want to exercise a judgment against men like him who will not in this House even strengthen Australian private enterprise but who will continue to act as though they were agents of foreign corporations. 
Since the Government took office in December 1972 it has applied the principle of diplomatic recognition to every government exercising effective sovereignty. It has been my main purpose as Minister for Overseas Trade to persuade governments outside Australia to enter into long term contractual arrangements for the purchase of wheat, wool and other primary products from this country. The application of this policy has resulted in vast sales of primary produce to countries to which previous governments in Australia would not even talk. These arrangements have led to long term contractual undertakings which will give Australian primary producers, especially wheat growers, the kind of security that they have never had before in Australian history. 
In the case of China, long term arrangements over a 3-year period have been negotiated, involving about $600m in sales of wheat and about $250m in sales of sugar. In the case of the German Democratic Republic, approximately 500,000 tons of wheat can be sold each year for 6 years, probably without any trouble, and a similar quantity of other grains also can be sold. In addition large quantities of iron ore, bauxite, alumina and other minerals will be sold. I hope that the Australian Wheat Board and Australian suppliers will respond fully to the opportunities that these arrangements have provided for them so that the growers and producers in Australia can gain full benefit from this policy. The Government has adopted this policy because it is of advantage to Australian farmers and producers to know 3 or S years ahead what can be sold. Very often when we are dealing with poorer countries, some people of which may be suffering from famine, it is of advantage to the buyers to know what they can expect from Australia where we have the security of knowing what the demand is. In this situation we can fix our acreage, restock our properties and prepare ourselves for the mining of our minerals so that we can supply the outside world with what it is capable of taking. As I said, I hope that the Australian Wheat Board in particular, as well as other primary produce boards and the suppliers in Australia, will respond to the opportunities that this Government has given to Australian industry, especially primary industry. They are opportunities which Australian industry has never had before in the history of this country. 
I am glad that the Leader of the Country Party in effect gave me notice of this question. I remember him once saying here that he would not sell his political soul for trade. He is now selling his political soul for politics. It is totally untrue that the Queensland Sugar Board was in any way embarrassed or put in difficulties because of anything that the Minister for Northern Development did in China. Quite the contrary is the case. In fact, the Minister for Northern Development, more than anyone else, created the circumstances which allowed this large sugar sale to come about. I want to point out quite clearly - obviously the Country Party does not know this - that sales of wheat and sugar to China which continued through the 1960s were made in a totally different situation after 1969. Up to 1969 the diplomatic status of Taiwan was not significant for the People's Republic of China. But in 1969 that matter became significant. After 1969 the position was stated by the Premier of China, by the Foreign Minister and by the Trade Minister to me more than once that after 1969 contracts would not be entered into for wheat or sugar with Australia except on a residual basis unless the attitude of the Australian Government to Taiwan was not that of identifying Taiwan as a separate country. So the recognition and the status of Taiwan became crucial after 1969 and contracts would not have been entered into unless that position were satisfactory. 1 remind the House that that applies as much to the Opposition, and should it become the Government again it will have to put itself right in respect of Taiwan if it wants to continue doing business with China. This was the position that was crucial after 1969. It was not so before. I think that members of the Opposition are deliberately distorting the situation by refusing to recognise that. 
The Minister for Northern Development,  Dr Patterson,  on his first visit to China with the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister himself, were able to discover this and were able to see what was necessary for satisfactory relations with China. The ridiculous fiction that Taiwan was China could not stand up to historical development. This stage has now passed and the possibilities for the unlimited, or almost unlimited, arrangements with China that have come about in respect of wheat and sugar have been made possible only by that diplomatic event. 
 The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
No; the book was made and printed in Great Britain and therefore is not eligible for bounty in terms of the Book Bounty Act 1969-1973. 
No. 
See (1) and (2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
On two recent occasions there has been some delay in the clearance of Jumbo Jet passengers arriving at Perth Airport after long flights from London. The delay has been caused because of the arrival of the jumbo jet at approximately the same time as two other international aircraft. The clearance time of two hours however, relates to the clearance of all passengers from the three aircraft. 
Customs clearance procedures at Perth Airport are the same as those employed at other Australian international airports. However, terminal facilities at Perth were designed and brought into use before the advent of large passenger capacity aircraft, such as the B747. The Comptroller-General of Customs has written to the Director-General of Civil Aviation with a view to the provision of more adequate terminal accommodation, particularly transit passenger facilities, at Perth. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker.  I was misrepresented this morning in at least the 'Australian', Sydney Morning Herald' and 'Daily Telegraph' newspapers. The 'Australian' had a headline 'Cairns challenges PM on economic decisions'. The 'Daily Telegraph' had a headline 'Cairns leads shock attack on PM'. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' had a headline 'Cairns, Whitlam in Caucus conflict'. Those reports are false. No journalist spoke to me. There is no evidence that any of them or their staff ever tried to do so. Yet they are willing to spread across the front of a national newspaper headlines of that kind which are very damaging to the person concerned. There is no challenge, attack or conflict coming from me to the Prime Minister, nor will there be. 
If such was involved, I immediately would give up any concern I have with Australian Labor Party parliamentary procedures. But action to see that all elected members of the Australian Parliament are fully informed about significant economic matters is a proper thing to do, and something which I and the Prime Minister are equally concerned to bring about. I say no more than express my personal disgust with journalists who work in the way they have in this matter. 
I move: 
I present the reports by the Tariff Board on the following subjects: 
Engines, Motors, Pumps and Valves, etc.; and Fire Hose. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
The project at Redcliffs on St Vincent Gulf in South Australia would be, from the point of view of both its economy and its efficiency, a petro-chemical complex of world standard. It is very important for Australia and for South Australia that this proceed. If the Australian Industry Development Corporation does not proceed with its present plans, the operation at Redcliffs could be threatened. The difficulties of the AIDC in this matter are caused by a shortage of funds. I will leave no stone unturned to do everything that is possible to ensure that AIDC has enough funds. If the unwillingness of the Opposition in the Senate to agree to the passage of the essential features of the AIDC Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill continues, the Senate will be responsible for the difficulties of AIDC. I believe that the Senate has a duty to see that projects such as the one at Redcliffs are kept in Australian hands. The participation of AIDC in that project is necessary to retain a high proportion of this enterprise in Australian hands. The equity would be substantially overseas, substantially Australian private and substantially AIDC. 
The substance of the 2 Bills which I have mentioned is in question. I do not propose to be concerned with the details, but the substance is the provision of the National Investment Fund to allow ordinary Australians an opportunity to contribute to a public corporation of this kind. To my mind, that is part of the substance, as is the extension of the scope and powers of AIDC. I will not argue about details, but these 2 provisions are the substance of the Bills. Unless they are passed AIDC would be unable to do its job in respect of projects such as the one at Redcliffs and many other projects of equal importance. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Ministerial determinations are the normal method of granting ad hoc by-law approvals. 
Yes. Provision for the making of by-laws has been a feature of the Austraiian Customs Tariff since Federation. Successive Australian Governments have recognised the need for flexibility in administration of the Tariff and the Minister for Customs and Excise is empowered through the provisions of the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff to approve concessional admission of imported goods where it can be established that suitably equivalent goods of Australian manufacture are not reasonably available. 
All requests for concessional admission of imported goods are investigated by officers of the Department of Customs and Excise before any decision is taken. Additionally in cases where the Minister for Customs and Excise feels a need for advice over and above that available to him through norma! departmental channels he has right of recourse to the Tariff Board. 
In the day to day routine of the handling of the many by-law applications received, the power to make determinations in accordance with established policy guidelines, which ensure consistency in granting concessions without derogation of the tariff protection local industry fairly merits and which reflect the more flexible approach of the present Government, have been delegated to officers of the By-law Branch of the Department. 
Concessions are granted on a wide range of goods, including capital equipment, components and raw materials, with the object of reducing costs where the concession would not be likely to cause detriment to local industry. 
There were 101,416 by-law approvals, which resulted in the issue of ministerial determinations during the period 1968-73: 
It is possible for the AIDC to assist the South Australian wine industry in relation to the problems of that industry that have followed the changes in the tax arrangements that inevitably should have been made. 
 My attention has been drawn to the statement by  Sir Robert  Norman who is  Chairman  of the Australian Banks Export Refinance Corporation. It is true that Australian exporters have lost a great deal of business because of high interest rates and the inadequacy of export finance in this country. Only in recent times contracts worth $80m in one case, $20m in another, $2m in another and $l.Sm in yet another have been lost as a result of the unduly high interest rates that are payable in this country. Even in the figures in the report of the Australian Banks Export Refinance Corporation that  Sir Robert  Norman is relying upon in which he quotes more than SI 20m of commitments, he hides the fact that in the tail of that report the actual money lent is given as only just over $40. Time and time again commitments are taken and because of the high rates of interest they are not carried out and we lose them to other countries. This has very adversely affected Australian industry. It is the intention of the Government to change this situation. The Australian Banks Export Refinance Corporation is a monopolistic office for the 7 trading banks which has been generously subsidised by preceding governments. Its capital is based on $4m loaned by the Reserve Bank at very favourable rates. 
This office of the trading banks is permitted to withdraw from its special reserve deposits on which it earns 0.75 per cent. It is permitted to earn at the rate of 9 per cent and over on those withdrawn funds. This is a handout to a monopolistic organisation. This Government does not intend to allow that operation to proceed. We have had that matter examined. An interdepartmental committee agrees that there are inadequate funds in the long term and medium term. Incidentally, a report of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation shows business of $407m. All the contracts undertaken by the trading banks organisation are fully insured by EPIC. There is no risk whatever, yet ABERC has been able to lend only $41m in the current term. In its current report EPIC states: 
It should be mentioned, however, that the cost in Australia of export credit finance for medium and extended credit term transactions is competitively less favourable than that available to suppliers in a number of major trading nations. 

 Sir Robert Norman is speaking for a sectional interest, that of the top monylenders in Australia. It is a very unbalanced and unfair situation. When the Government produces legislation very shortly to deal with this matter I hope the Opposition will not obstruct it. 
The position of the Australian Industry Development Corporation has changed substantially since 18 October. Several large projects of a developmental nature that even every member of the Opposition would support to the hilt, like the Redcliffs venture, have in fact been considered by AIDC. These projects will require more money than AIDC has been obliged to produce so far. I imagine that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would be aware of that. The position has changed since 18 October. The statement by  Mr Bennett  would be accurate provided that AIDC was geared to expend up to $200m in terms of its obligations at 18 October. But at that stage AIDC was not geared to do that and was prevented from doing that by some of the restrictions imposed by the legislation that was passed by the Opposition Parties when they were the Government and which still operate and which I am trying to amend. If  Mr Bennett's  evidence is correctly stated, if at that date AIDC had been able to raise $200m, it could have met its obligations then. But AIDC was not in that situation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would know that AIDC does not use for loan purposes the money provided to it by appropriations through the Treasury. It uses that money as capital to help finance its direct operations. It relies mainly upon money raised in the money market in Australia, but principally overseas, for its loan funds. Because of the restrictions that the existing legislation places upon it, AIDC was not able to provide funds to the extent of $200m as at 18 October. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970, I present the third annual report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 June 1973. I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
Honourable members will see from the report a quite detailed statement of the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation which I want to relate to the proposals being advanced by the Government about the charter of the AIDC. I have sought leave to make this statement because in answering a question this morning I was pressed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to seek leave after question time to make a statement and I shortened the answer I gave to the question, as I did to the subsequent question, for that reason. I thank the House for granting leave for me to make this short statement. The House will notice in the report that the AIDC discussed the Government's announcement concerning the AIDC. It states: 
In March, 1973, the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry . . . announced Government plans for expanding the Corporation's activities and financial capacity. It is understood that proposed new legislation, now in preparation, will preserve and extend the present role of AIDC; provide new sources of equity funds for Australian ownership in industry; and strengthen the Corporation's capacity to provide capital for nationally important industrial enterprises. 
The AIDC, through  Sir Alan  Westerman and otherwise, has made it clear that it supports the proposals of the Government to extend the capacity of the AIDC and that it considers such a step is necessary if the AIDC is to perform properly its functions. About that there can be no question. I relate this specifically to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked this morning. If he sees the correspondence from the AIDC and the Press release that was agreed upon 'between the AIDC and me on these matters, he will see that there is no possible room for argument about that. It is necessary for the AIDC to have a capacity to raise both in Australia and overseas an increased amount of money if the AIDC is to meet its current commitments, taking 'current' to mean up to IS October and subsequent to 18 October, an J especially to meet those projects that the AIDC is considering for the immediate future in terms strictly of its existing charter. 
The point I want to make quite clearly is that, given the existing charter of the AIDC and given its scope and its functions, it is necessary for the AIDC to be able to raise additional funds. The AIDC has made this clear, as I do. Surely we can have no argument about that. As I have said before, I am not concerned to argue about the details of much of the legislation that went through this House. As I think I pointed out at the time to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, much of that detail is detail that comes from the lawyers - from people who say that it is necessary from a legal point of view to have these provisions. As far as I am concerned, it is not so. If the AIDC has a specific function relating to development and Australian ownership, both the AIDC and I would ensure that this is carried out lawfully and properly. If the lawyers require the details of how this will be done to go into the Act, that is another thing. That did not emanate from me, nor am I concerned, as I say, to make those things an issue. But at this point, in presenting the report to the Parliament, I put it seriously to the Opposition that if honourable members opposite want the AIDC to perform the function that  Sir John  McEwen designed for it, they must find room for the AIDC to obtain additional funds. 
I will not take more than a minute or two. First of all, when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  spoke to us on this matter he told us in his first dozen words that he rejected every aspect of the Bills, lock, stock and barrel. He was not concerned to examine the legislation to see whether some of it was good or some of it was bad. In those circumstances the debate becomes a second reading debate. It is nonsense for the Opposition, having said that it will reject the whole of the Bills, to say that it wants time to consider the detail. I considered this was nonsense. I therefore thought that the move made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to limit the debate to a reasonable time for a second reading debate was not unreasonable. But I have now mentioned that some specific questions of importance are current in respect of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition questioned me about that this morning. I told him that was so. I have told him I will show him if he wishes the letter from  Sir Alan  Westerman to show that that is true. There is a considerable amount of detail in its annual report showing -the limitations of the scope of AIDC in the past because of a lack of funds and those limitations are getting worse. It has not been the practice of AIDC to use money drawn from the Treasury. It has scope to draw money from the Treasury for ordinary lending operations. It has kept that scope fairly distinct and we wanted to do this in the legislation. We wanted to say, in effect, that if we are going to use Treasury money we want to put the matter specifically to the House to get the agreement of the House. 
The reason I accepted the amendment that was proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and incorporated in the legislation that went to the Senate was that that would be made clear. I do not want to leave the door open so that AIDC or any other body can draw on the Treasury without the matter going through this House. I do not want to have to turn to that direction for funds. AIDC is limited for the greater part of its financial operations to what it can draw from the money market overseas or in Australia. It is limited by the Bill to borrowing principally overseas. The whole power in the Bill and the emphasis in the existing Act limits its borrowings in Australia. We are seeking to have those limits lifted so that the AIDC can establish a national investment fund to give the ordinary Australian citizen on his way home from work an opportunity to invest in national projects through AIDC if he wishes. We do not have that power at the moment. We want to be able to reach a situation in which we can get more funds from life offices and other financial sources. I do not want to use compulsion about this. I am quite prepared to go a long way, in fact all the way in reaching agreement with those institutional lenders. 
I say to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that I am prepared to agree to the Senate referring this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. The Opposition can fully probe and examine through that Committee every aspect of these 2 Bills. But I want to make sure that that is a genuine move, not just an obstruction - not just something to push this matter off into time with a view to gaining the political capital that the Opposition might think it would gain from doing that. I feel that the Democratic Labor Party was genuine about this but I wish I could feel that the Opposition as a whole was genuine, too. 

 Mr LYNCH (Flinders)- by leave - I do not want to extend this opportunity at too great a length. I just want to say 3 things to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  First of all, it is not for the Minister to agree to have this matter referred for examination by a Senate committee. As I understand it, the Senate has so determined that the matter will be referred. 
Has the Senate determined that? 
During the year the Corporation undertook new financial commitments totalling $61 million in respect of 34 projects in the manufacturing, processing and mineral sectors. In addition, conditional approval has been given to providing finance for several relatively large-scale projects that are still at the planning stage. All told, AIDC has undertaken commitments for $115m to 60 projects since it became operational in April, 1971. 
I want the Minister to be quite clear about what I am saying. Specifically, is he prepared to have this report subject to a response from the Opposition parties? If he is not, I put it to him that he is indicted by that approach and, quite clearly, his bona fides are subject to very great suspicion, to put it at its least possible moment. If the Minister is prepared to tell this House that this Corporation has the significance which he attaches to it and which I do not deny, and if he is prepared also to seek to appear, in this House and outside it, to assume a mantle of sweet reasonableness, let him put his answer on the record and agree that this matter should be the subject of debate. 
The real problem in relation to the AIDC and so many other significant areas of legislation in this House has been that we have not had the opportunity to put on the record the full and considered view of the Opposition parties. If the Minister is genuine and sincere about this matter, he will come forward and say: 'Of course the matter can be subject to debate next week'. I remind the House of the facts on the first page of the report. It states that an expenditure of $61 m has been undertaken in respect of 34 major projects. We are a little tired of reading in the newspapers of Australia about the AIDC and the leaks that come out of it as to what money has been lost on certain projects. Is the Minister prepared to allow the House to have a fair scrutiny of the activities of the Corporation? If he is not, one wonders whether he might have the view that they cannot stand the scrutiny and examination of the House. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make another statement. 
And you have exercised a tremendous amount of licence. You have slandered the AIDC. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - You have slandered your own Liberal Party Treasurer, and I want an opportunity to say something about it. I am sick of your slander. 
DrJ. F. Cairns - I will not give you any opportunity in this House to continue it. If you want to go anywhere else, go to the Senate committee and examine the report there. 
 As far as I can see, the amendment ought to be acceptable. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who just moved it, said that it is self-explanatory. I do not know whether that is so. He did not say what he considers it to mean and I was waiting for someone on behalf of the Opposition to say what the Opposition considers it to mean so that I could judge the Opposition's purpose in moving it and what the Opposition considers it achieves. I would have expected the Opposition to have done that and perhaps it could still take the opportunity to do so. 
The amendment is quite acceptable. In the first part of it, the words to be inserted after 'the produce of the sea' which are:  specified in the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora . . .  may not be necessary because my understanding of the proposed sub-section is that it does nothing more than make complete application of the provisions of that Convention anyway. But I see no reason why the Government should not accede to the Opposition's request for special mention of this matter in this provision. The second part of the amendment seeks the inclusion of the following words: 
The regulations shall specify those species of wild fauna and flora which are applicable to the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. 
I see no reason why those words should not be included in the provision. I think it is quite proper that the regulation should specify those species of wild fauna and flora which are applicable. I think there is no reason why the suggested words should not be included. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
I have received a submission from the electronics industry which, among other points, claims that the tariff reduction and the increase in imports of components and made up sets that will come as a result of that reduction will bring an end to electronic components manufacture in Australia and will cause disemployment in the industry of between 7,500 to 10,000 people. I am aware of the significance of electronics technology. It may well be, as the honourable member suggests, that electronics technology in this industrial revolution is of equal importance to steel in the first indus'trial revolution. 
When the Government recently introduced the reduction in tariffs on television sets and components and other electronics components it did so with a full sense of the importance of technology and with a full sense of the desirability of not pushing people around merely to bring about general economic changes unless there are proper safeguards to ensure that re-employment is looked after, that training is attended to and that assistance is given where proper and justified. 
The Government decided to make a somewhat smaller reduction in tariff than the Tariff Board had recommended so that the changes would not be too vast and extensive and there could be some reasonable control of those changes, consistent with securing the lowest possible prices for television sets and other electronics components for the consumer. This was a balance which, I think, was sensible and completely justified. We also adopted measures to provide a subsidy to preserve the desirable technological aspects of the industry for future development. That subsidy will be applied, and it is a matter of detail and of work to find out where it is needed and in what way it can be applied. Nothing in the report of the Tariff Board or in the decision of the Government automatically solves that problem. I would be pleased to have discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Secondary Industry, and other people who are concerned, and meet with people from the industry and the unions and other people concerned to ensure that we maintain the desirable technological aspects of the industry for the future. I also will be concerned to see that the provisions for assistance, retraining and so on that I have mentioned are applied properly. 
I am concerned also about the latter aspect of the honourable member's question, namely, that the consumer receives the benefit of the tariff reduction. This will not follow automatically. We are dealing with an importing system that is far from perfectly competitive, and simply to believe that all one needs to do is to reduce the tariff and one gets a cheaper set is nonsense. It will be necessary for the Government to act through the Prices Justification Tribunal and the use of its prices power, if the people next Saturday vote for the Government proposal for a price control power. If the people vote on that proposal sensibly and wisely in their own interest, we can ensure that the benefits of the tariff reduction on television sets will be passed on to the consumer. 
HadI not anticipated that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would ask this question, I would have had to ask that it be put on the notice paper. I am very pleased that he has asked the question because I will now be able to direct his attention to the relevant sections of the Act and the Corporation's annual report, which are available to him and from which, had he directed his attention to them, he could have answered his own question. Section 24(1) of the Act states: 
There is payable to the Corporation in accordance with this section, as the capital of the Corporation, One hundred million dollars. 
However, the full $100m has not been paid to the Corporation up to now. Sub-section (3) states: 
An instalment of capital shall be paid at the expiration of twelve months after the Board requests the Treasurer to pay that instalment. 
When sub-section (3) has been given effect to, the Corporation will have capital from the Treasury of $50m. Sub-section (5) states: 
Subject to sub-section(7)  - 
Sub-section (7) provides that the capital can exceed $50m if it is necessary for the discharge of the Corporation's obligations -  payment of an instalment of capital shall not be made to the Corporation where the total of the amounts paid to the Corporation under this section exceeds- 
I will abbreviate the quote- 
. four times . . . 
the amount of the capital of the Corporation as at that date; and 
any amount set aside, as at that date, by the Corporation as reserves. 
Reference to the annual report of the Corporation will show that at present, $37.5m has been paid in capital and another $12. 5m has been agreed to but has not been received and will be received as soon as the provisions of section 24 (3) are given effect to. That will then take the capital of the Corporation to $50m. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition looks at the annual report, he will find that it shows that the amount borrowed by the Corporation for 1973 was$42,784,892 and for 1972 was $16,826,389. He will see, therefore, that the amount borrowed does not exceed by 4 times the capital of the Corporation. So, the amount borrowed limits the ability of the Corporation to draw more capital from the Treasury and until the Corporation can borrow more money in Australia or overseas - this is what I was trying to say the other day and I thought I had made it clear - it cannot obtain any more capital from the Government. I hope that is clear. I should also like to draw to the attention of the honourable member sub-section (8) of section 24 which was put in by his Party when it was in government. It states: 
It is the intention of the Parliament in providing moneys as capital- 
It would not be a bad idea if members of the Australian Country Party listened to this because I would have hoped that they were interested in the AIDC. 
 Let me begin with the point made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  about the unsatisfactory circumstances that come from discussing in this House the details of many tariff proposals such as those that are before us now. I agree with the honourable member completely. I hope that before next year, when we will be involved in the discussion of quite a number of important changes, we will be able to make some changes in the way we handle the situation. It is rumoured within my own Party that I am in favour of making some changes. Those rumours are sound. I am also in favour of making some changes to the way in which the House or the members of the House may be able to handle tariff matters. The honourable member said that it is not proper to handle in the House tariff matters such as those we are discussing at the moment. He said that we should try to have a more intimate committee system such as the one used in the Senate. He said this House was not a proper place to analyse matters of this sort in detail. 
The honourable member referred to boredom. I am worried whether members are interested in these matters. I have been taking part, as has the honourable member, in debates on tariff matters for some 17 or 18 years. Generally speaking there has been a small number of contributors to these debates. I am not sure that the House consists of members who are dying to take part in discussions about tariff changes. Before long we will have a number of significant changes proposed for specific industries such as the domestic appliance industry and the automotive industry. A number of other matters which will be referred from the Tariff Board during the course of the year will affect the employment directly of many tens of thousands of people. We may not then have the general state of excess demand which has prevailed in the last 12 months. We will have to handle those matters fairly carefully. 
I should like to give a warning not only to those in the House but also to people outside in industry and the unions who will be concerned with these matters after the events. It would be much better if they could become concerned before the event and be in a position to express their interest and point of view before we have to make a decision here in the last few hours of a session. I will be concerned to attempt to bring about changes in the way that these matters are handled by the House next year so that we can have a better opportunity - I refer to those who wish to take that opportunity - of analysing the questions in the kind of detail to which the honourable member for Wakefield referred. 
Of course a number of proposals are before us now. They involve part of action taken by the Government to attempt to deal with the inflationary situation that we have experienced in the last 12 months. The proposals also reflect, in part, the attempt by the Government and its advisers to arrive at a suitable policy for the particular industries concerned. Both those things have been happening. I think the result has not been perfect. No one can suggest - I have not suggested and the Government has not suggested - that what we have done has been perfect. But what we have done, I think, has not been too bad. 
I listened to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  a while ago and noted that he was forced to recognise that the 25 per cent tariff cut seems to have paid off. Imports have increased, he said. Imports have increased, as measured by a comparison of the quarters ending in September 1972 and 1973, by 34 per cent. There have been some $400m or $500m more of imported goods, some of which might have come in anyway if there had been no tariff cut. 
There are some defence items. All these things can be taken into account. But in taking them into account I would hope for some open recognition from the Opposition- 
The tariff cuts would have done something to increase the quantity of imports in 1973 above the quantity which we would otherwise have obtained. All I am asking from the Opposition is for some frank admission that the tariff cuts might have done some good, but I am still waiting for it. Apart from what was implied in what the honourable member for Wakefield said, the Opposition has displayed a tardy attitude in this respect- 
As the honourable member for Wakefield rightly said, we were not asking the Rattigan Committee to reform tariffs. It was given the task of recommending to the Government some way of helping to increase imports. We did not say that we wanted to do it dramatically. Nowhere did anyone say that, but the Opposition speakers say that the tariff cut had no dramatic effect. Who said it would? Only the Opposition, which is building a straw man for the purpose of knocking him down. As the honourable member for Wakefield said, the Rattigan Committee was given the task of recommending to the Government how it could, with fairly quick action, increase imports. The Committee made a considered report, containing many pages, which I would assume has been read by some members of the House. The Committee considered an appreciation of the currency. It turned away from that course because of the adverse effect an appreciation might have had on the rural sector - upon our friends in the Country Party corner. The Committee could have recommended for an appreciation of the currency. We did appreciate the currency. But having appreciated twice already and in a de facto way a third time we did not want to go any further in perhaps cutting the income of the rural sector. We wanted an increase in imports without appreciating the currency. The Rattigan Committee report analysed the situation. It is available for honourable members to read. The Committee considered various possibilities of tariff cuts; not just across the board possibilities but also various other possibilities. The Committee gave its considered unanimous view that a 25 per cent tariff cut was the best one to choose in the circumstances. We did not just pluck that decision out of the air. It was not,, as someone has been saying, some politicians* decisions, although I give politicians a thorough place in this matter. I do not look down on the views that politicians might express on this matter. The Committee's recommendation was a considered view and so we chose it. It has had benefits. The Leader of the Country Party said it has paid off. There has been a considerable increase in imports and no one apparently has lost his job. He said that it should have been selective, but he also said that a selective change in tariffs may take a long time, may take up to 6 years. We did not have a long time. We did not have 6 years. We had to do something fairly quickly. I would expect somewhere from the Opposition - I think I can say I gave it when I was on the Opposition side - a recognition of the limited objective we had and of the extent to which we might have gone towards achieving that limited objective. I came away feeling that the Leader of the Country Party was saying: 'Whatever you have done cannot do any good, and it is pretty certain you will have a lot of trouble next year'. I remember the Leader of the Country Party saying last week that there was no such thing as a free meal. I know there are farmers who refuse to give free meals, and listening to the Leader of the Country Party I thought at times he sounds a bit like that kind of farmer who will give nobody a free meal. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  who spoke for the Opposition, began by telling us that the action the Government took was not the sort of treatment that his side would have meted out to industry. He said that the policy of the Opposition is adequate protection. He said that the Opposition believes in a systematic review. He cited the electronics industry as an example of that - the 1,000 items margins cases. I presume he agrees with the electronics industry decision, although when he came to the report on colour television in the electronics industry as a result of this systematic review of the Board he said that he feels some unease. He believes that the decision we made to adopt a 35 per cent tariff rate instead of 25 per cent on components and 30 per cent on sets really does not change the position at all. He said, in effect, that that was not worth doing. 
I think that if we had not decided on a tariff rate a little higher than the one the Board recommended surely we would have been more open to a criticism of having caused unease, the very thing about which the honourable member complains. He feels unease. If we had not gone on to 35 per cent he would feel a little more unease, surely. I would have expected him to have, from a somewhat more detached judgment, a willingness to recognise that the safety margin of the slightly higher tariff rate was worth having. But he said that much depends on subsidisation, the Government's plan to use subsidies to retain worthwhile technology. I agree with that, and I am glad to hear him say that the Opposition will support a viable electronics industry and does not propose to hamper attempts by subsidisation. I hope that that is not forgotten because I consider that it is more than likely that the Government will have to come up with proposals for subsidising certain parts of this industry to retain the kind of technology we should retain. I would hope that we can arrive at a result that will allow the Opposition to carry into effect what the honourable member for Berowra has just said, namely, that the Opposition does not propose to hamper attempts by subsidisation that may be needed. 
There is one other question only with which I want to deal at this point, and that is the way in which the Opposition speakers have referred to the effect of currency appreciation. I mention for the information of the House, and I will not deal with it in any detail, a discussion that took place at the winter school of the Economic Society in Sydney on 9 November, in particular a summary paper by  Dr Porter  of the Reserve Bank, who looked at inflation and who saw it essentially or substantially as an international matter and that in dealing with it appreciation of the currency had to be taken into account. He said at one point: 
Attempting to resist world inflationary trends without revaluation causes the domestic currency to become overvalued and this then generates speculative inflow. 
He went on to say: 
The implication is that if Australia had revalued earlier, say, in late 1971, then the current inflationary pressure on the Australian economy would have been markedly diminished . . . We are thus left with the inflationary consequences of failure to revalue in 1971. 
I think that when the critics from the Opposition side look at what we did after 3 days in office, on 5 December, about revaluation they ought to take into account the judgments of qualified people who refer to what might have happened in 1971 and 1972. They ought to take that into account in arriving at a judgment. 
The final point made by the honourable member for Berowra is that we have made certain tariff reductions and certain currency appreciations at times when inflation was fairly high, and he pointed to 1974. We do not know what will happen in 1974, but I assure the Opposition, the Parliament and the people outside that if economic conditions change in 1974 we will come up pretty quickly with an appropriate policy operating in an opposite direction. I would hope that we will get realistic constructive suggestions from the Opposition, and I hope we will be able to arrive at a way of using the resources of this House to allow more constructive proposals to be made at earlier stages than unfortunately has been the case when matters of this kind are debated in this way, when the debate seems to be very largely party political in nature. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There is provision in Customs legislation to permit educational film libraries to preview any film free of duty and other charges prior to it being entered for home consumption. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I have read with interest the statement attributed to Professor M. Webb of the University of Western Australia as reported in the West Australian Sunday Times' of 18 November. 
I noticed that the honourable member in his question referred to the annual collection of $2m in Customs duties in that State, whereas the Professor apparently suggested a figure of $27m. 
Customs duties would not be paid if all imports were admitted duty free. However, protective import duties are imposed to protect Australian industries irrespective of their location. These and other duties provide a necessary source of revenue. 
If import duties were abolished, the necessary revenue would- need to be raised by some other means. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Decisions relating to the revaluation of the Australian currency were taken in accordance with the normal procedures for decisions of this kind. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Information on the investments of the Australian Industry Development Corporation is published in the Corporation's annual reports which have been tabled in the House and are available in the Parliamentary Library. The reports contain extensive and detailed analyses of the Corporation's activities in assisting in providing the capital requirements, both equity and loan, of Australian companies. This information is presented in a degree of detail which is most unusual amongst development financing and investment banking institutions. However,like its private counterparts, and indeed like any banking institution, the Corporation does not divulge particulars of its dealings with, or of the affairs of, its client companies. 
I move: 
I am sure you will be able to find a very good use for it yourself. Where appropriate, in implementing the changes included in these Tariff Proposals, adjustments arising from international commitments have been made. A comprehensive summary of the changes and the duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Agricultural machinery, etc.; lawn sprinklers; domestic appliances, heating and cooling equipment, etc.; earthmoving, construction and materials handling equipment, etc.; fibreboard containers, paper and textile bags; film processing industry; advertising film (value for duty); products of the printing industry; and textile bags. 
I present also the following reports by the Tariff Board which do not call for any legislative action: 
Acrylic polymers and copolymers (Dumping and Subsidies Act); hydraulic cranes (Dumping and Subsidies Act); petrol (Dumping and Subsidies Act); and tyres and tyre cases size 29.5 inch x 29 inch (by-law). 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
 I move: 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the Bill intituled A Bill for an Act relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation', which was transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence during the last Session of the Parliament, the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the Prorogation of the Parliament. 
The purpose of this motion is merely procedural or formal, to restore to the notice paper of the Senate 2 Bills which previously had passed this House and had reached the Senate. 
(12.23)  -  I move: 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the Bill intituled "A Bill for an Act to establish a National Investment Fund, and for purposes connected therewith", which was transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence during the last Session of the Parliament, the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the Prorogation of the Parliament. 
I would like to say, in view of what has just been said about insincerity by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who is at the table, that claims like this are very easy to make. It is easy to drop adjectives and nouns which reflect upon the attitude of one's opponents. The honourable member did not even go to the trouble of suggesting his evidence or his reasons for using that term. He merely dropped the word. I think that there is far too much word dropping in this place. I think that the use of the word 'insincerity' in relation to the 2 Bills in regard to which I have just moved motions is quite unjustified. 
Long before I proposed to this House that we should amend the 2 Acts of Parliament concerned - legislation concerned with the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund - I outlined to the Parliament and to the public outside what was proposed. I notified the country of the substance of the proposal weeks before. I said that the Bills would be introduced into this House in June. That was notified publicly. As soon as I was able to do so the Bills were introduced. I said that I would allow the Bills to remain on the notice paper for a month or 6 weeks so that everyone in the Parliament would have adequate opportunity to examine them. Eventually they passed through this House, with the Opposition saying that it would not accept any aspect of the legislation. It was not concerned to make any suggestions for the improvement of the legislation. The Opposition simply came in with a statement that it was not interested in a line of the legislation. So in view of that it seemed that the Opposition did not want the opportunity that we had already given it to debate the measures. The Bills of course were passed through this place because we had the numbers, as every other piece of legislation that goes through this place goes through because the government has the numbers. I have been a member of this place for quite a number of years. During this time I have witnessed a succession of governments doing precisely the same thing because it is important for a government to get its business done just as it is important for an Opposition to have an opportunity to debate what is done. 
The 2 Bills went to the Senate where they were debated at length. It was proposed in that place that the Bills be referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. I agreed that the Bills should be referred to that Committee. This action was taken at the end of the last session and the Bills have been before that Committee ever since. The Committee has spent I think four or five days examining the Bills. 1 understand that before very long a report will be made to the Senate. We will be interested to see what is contained in that report. I doubt - and this certainly has not happened in my time - whether this House, the Senate and the public have been given more opportunity to examine and discuss legislation than they have been given in regard to these 2 Bills. 
I am very sorry that the Opposition took such a negative view of these Bills and that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  came in and said in effect: 'We are not interested in a line of these Bills. We have no constructive suggestions to make. We are against them in principle'. 
I am answering what was said by the honourable member's colleague in his absence. I would have said nothing if the honourable member for Corangamite had not made those remarks. The motion before the House is merely a formal routine matter to put the Bills back on to the notice paper of the Senate. I am trying to answer the suggestion made by the honourable member's colleague that the Government was guilty of insincerity in what it was doing. I ask the House to support the motion that a message be sent to the Senate requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the Bill. 
This debate is about the elimination of the superphosphate bounty - a bounty which in 1970-71 was costing the people of Australia &gt;$40.8m, which had risen by 38 per cent in 1972-73 to $56.6m and which would have gone up to well over $60m if it had been continued. The rate of increase in the cost of this item is far greater than the rate of increase that can be found in almost any other item. For instance, the expenditure on social security and welfare in Australia increased by only 14 per cent during the same time. I want honourable members to compare the level of farm income when it began with the level of farm income at the end. When the subsidy was S40m the farm income was about $700m to S900m. This year the farm income will be at least $2,000m. Presumably the Government is expected to go on paying the superphosphate bounty although during the time it has been in existence farm income as a whole has doubled. 
Australian government for many years has been a record of one group after another using the power of government to benefit itself. That, of course, is the record of government in many countries. Higher wages, social security, tariffs, subsidies, tax benefits - an amazing array has been built up in Australia during this time. Everything existed behind a protective wall and everything was subject to potential competition from the outside world. Competition was always there and we always knew it. There is not one of us who has not wondered just how long it can go on. There is a growing acceptance of the view not only that the cost has become too high but also that we would all be better off and it would be fairer if more of us were to stand on our own feet and pay our own way, as many of those who secured the benefits of legislation like this were far better off than those who were paying for them. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has already quoted figures to show the completely unselective nature, the inequality and the inequity of a bounty of this sort. We have seen figures that show that 15 per cent to one-third, depending on the type of use, of the users involved are small farmers. They would not have received more than 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the value cf this bounty. We have seen figures that show that 200 farms each receive $2,400. Half a million dollars was paid to 200 farmers. We have seen figures that show that the average cost of the subsidy to wheat growers was $968 and that 38 per cent of that went to people with an income of less than $4,000. Less than $400 was the amount of subsidy one-half received. But there were 6,700 wheat growers with an average income of over $10,000 who received an average of $1,850 in subsidy. The unselective nature and the basic inequality of this has to be attended to. I should think that practically every member of the Australian Country Party would come into the low income group of the community and not into the high income group that he is defending when he defends a bounty of this sort. Let the high income people be located in this Parliament. They are not in the Country Party. They sit opposite me. 
It seems to be accepted now, as I have said, that there must be a limit to what any industry, what any farmer and what any worker can expect the rest of the community to pay to it or him through a tariff or subsidy or through some other form of assistance. This justified and widespread belief in Australia has been given effect by the Government's reduction of assistance to secondary industry. I wish to point out the differences here. Without any direct losses so far it has been reduced as a result of the reduction in tariff by at least S600m a year. The reduction in the subsidies to primary industry as a balancing of and offset to that, even taking the figures of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  are not more than SI 40m. The reduction of assistance in the tariff area is about 5 times as great as the reduction in the subsidy in the primary industry area. Do not honourable members opposite want the rural area to pay any share of it at all, or do they want other people to pay the lot? 
Farmers have gained much more and potentially much more from the tariff cuts than they may have lost from the subsidy cuts. But that is not just the end to it. We are prepared to produce an effective system of rural development not one that is being misused. But there is not only that to it. The Government's policy has been associated with a remarkable increase in exports this year. The total value of exports this year will be up $600m to S700m on last year. Not one cent of that has been taken away from the farmers by any tax measures or by one of the proposals which were recommended and which were designed^ to enable us to stabilise prices. Farmers have got  thi  full and whole benefit of that increase in the total value of exports. They have not lost a cent. Do not honourable members opposite want anything to compensate for that? Do they want to be on the receiving end in every way? Does the Country Party want things in every sense to be running in its favour? 
Let me look at the major growth items. Most of the countries to which I am about to refer are countries with which this Government has negotiated long term trade agreements. For instance, in relation to wheat, we have negotiated long term trade agreements in which we have contracted for the sale of 3 million to 4 million tons. Has that not had anything to do with the fact that wheat output this year will increase from 6.6 million tons under the preceding government to 11.6 million tons this year? That means that an extra 5 million tons of wheat has been grown, and the money obtained from selling that extra 5 million tons of wheat is going to the farmers. Do not honourable members opposite want to contribute anything? Do they want to take it with both hands all the time? The agreements and contracts which the Government has been able to negotiate are the factors which underlie this increase in the production of wheat. 
Let me take China as an example. There were no sales of wheat to China last year, but so far this year we have sold $17m worth of wheat to China. There were no sales of sugar to China last year, but so far this year we have sold $6m worth of sugar to China. Last year we sold $6.9m worth of wool to China. This year we have sold $19.4m worth of wool to China. We sold $ 11.5m worth of iron and steel to China last year, and this year we have sold SI 3.1m worth of iron and steel to China. The total value of those few items that we have sold to China has increased from $19.3m to $58. 5m - about a 3-fold increase. What a benefit that has been. Previously there was hardly any trade with China. 
I will take another country, Czechoslovakia. The value of the wool exported to that country has increased from S5.3m to $12.7m - more than a doubling in the value. The value of the wool exported to France has increased from $53m to $83m. The value of the wool exported to Italy has increased from $45m to $75m - an increase of about twothirds in value. Honourable members opposite talk about the policy of this Government and the results of that policy being harmful to the farmers yet they have benefited from the increase in the value of these exports. The value of meat exported to Japan has increased from $78m to $189m in less than a year, and the value of wool exported to that country has increased from $22 1m to $501 m in less than a year. 
All consistent with Government policy. Of course, I am not claiming that it has all been done by the Government, but I am claiming that the Government's policy has had something to do with it, and the Government ought to be given credit for that policy. It should not simply be alleged, as the 2 Opposition speakers in this debate have done, that the Government's policy has been of no benefit whatsoever to the farmers. 
I want to make one final point. Superphosphate is of great importance to primary industry in Australia, but the supplies of superphosphate that have come from the sources from where we have received them before, such as Nauru, Christmas Island and Ocean Island, are running out, and everybody has known that. Nearly  2i  years ago a Press statement was issued by the previous Minister for Trade,  Mr Anthony,  I think in conjunction with another Minister. It stated: 
The Minister said that in 1964 the Government encouraged the search for phosphate deposits in Australia because of the rise in demand for phosphate, its vital importance in Australia's well being and the diminution in reserves on the traditional island sources of supply. 
This has been known for years, but almost nothing has been happening about it. For instance, the Broken Hill (South) Ltd estimates its reserves in Queensland alone at 2,000 million tons. Australia can be self-sufficient in superphosphate. Yet over the years nothing really has been done to put the superphosphate industry in Australia on an indigenous basis; on a basis that would give us a satisfactory result. Instead, we have been able to draw on supplies from the islands where poor people live, where native people live, at less than world prices; at low prices all that time. Those who have consumed superphosphate in Australia have benefited from these low prices. I think that the position of the Government is that we must get away from this system of handouts, this system of benefits and this system of assistance which has not always produced the desired result and which has not had built into it a constructive program for the future. 
I am aware of a letter written by  Sir Robert  Norman to the managers of the Bank of New South Wales.  Sir Robert  Norman is quite entitled to write letters to managers of his Bank. 
Do you not want me to say that? I am afraid that I will have to submit my answers to the honourable member for Moreton before I make them and get his approval.  Sir Robert  Norman is quite entitled to write to managers of the Bank and give to them the views of the Board itself. I emphasise that they are not other than of the Board itself. The few people who run the Bank of New South Wales - the Board is nothing more than that - are quite entitled to put that view, but it is not an accurate view of the AIDC. We all know that when the AIDC legislation was first introduced into this House by  Sir John  McEwen the same attitude towards it was revealed by the banks and the insurance companies that they now reveal. The recognition toy  Sir John  McEwan - as distinct from the Liberal Party- that the AIDC was needed was a recognition that came into existence because of the failures very largely of the life offices and the banks in this country. 
Under the amending legislation the role of the AIDC would be primarily to act as a coordinator of large investment by private companies in important national projects, as it is doing in the Alwest case and as it did in the Redcliffs case. Its second purpose is to strengthen small investment in the areas I have recently mentioned, such as the cooperatives in the country and the establishment of industries in the country, so that we can have a viable situation in the country. Its final purpose is in national interest matters. The national interest character is investment by AIDC based on prospects, not on property. At present the AIDC makes less than 1 per cent of the investment of the massive private investment that is in the hands of 60 or 70 companies. It is impossible for AIDC to increase this to more than 3 per cent or 4 per cent in 5 years or more. I think the average Australians want to see an organisation like the AIDC grow even more rapidly than that. I do not think that they share the view of  Sir Robert  Norman and I doubt whether many people employed by the Bank of New South Wales share that view. He is quite entitled to express it but it is a very limited, very conservative and a very unrepresentative view. 
I think the honourable member is rather unwise to associate the game of ping-pong with Australian rules. That is normally done by Rugby supporters who un-  fortunately have never had the opportunity, or rarely have had the opportunity, of seeing football played in the proper way. I have seen Rugby played and I have seen the ball disappear over the fence and the players not aware for about 10 minutes. Seriously,  Mr Speaker,  I did raise with the Chinese authorities the possibility of a visit to China by an Australian Rules football team. I was informed just recently that that visit is not yet possible. There are many reasons for this. I do not think there is any justification for people to think that this matter is a mystery or that there is something that has not been revealed. I know that the facilities that are available in China for visitors from other countries at the present time are very limited. For this reason alone it is physically not possible for the Chinese Government to agree to many of the requests that are made by people to visit China for medical reasons or for reasons such as this one. There are other factors that enter into it. The Chinese authorities have pointed out that the game is not known in China. The Chinese authorities have not yet completely given up reading the Australian Press, although I should imagine they soon will. However, they are not familiar with the character of Australian football. 
I am quite sure that whatever it was the honourable member for Mackellar would contradict it. I am concerned to assist Australian Rules football to become more widely known, especially in Australia, and I look forward to the possibility of a visit by such a team to China sooner or later. 
There will be no export incentive scheme after 30 June of this year. 
What is proposed is a market development grant. The  previous  scheme was one in which financial assistance was given to companies in proportion to their exports. The obvious result of this was that a very large amount of the assistance went to very large companies. The truth is that some 80 per cent of it went to about 20 different companies and the remaining 20 per cent to about 2,000 different companies. That kind of inequity has been present in almost every arrangement that has come to us from previous governments. As the honourable member said, the present scheme is limited to a payment of $100,000 for the establishment of new markets or the establishment of completely new operations by existing companies in existing markets. It is a market development grant. There is a limit of $100,000 and in applying that limit the Government has to decide what is a company and what can be treated as a separate enterprise. Every case will be judged on its merits. Where it is clear that the business is a separate one and where the arrangement which brings it together as part of a group in a holding company is merely formal - although for very substantial reasons - I should think the decision, on practical grounds, would be that assistance would be given separately. As I said, every case will be judged on its merits. I recently made a decision in respect of a rather large concern that the Government would not treat some divisions of that organisation as a separate business. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Net change - Decrease of15 positions. 
(a) First Division- Nil 
Second Division - Increase 1 
Third Division - Decrease 87 
Fourth Division - Increase 71 
(a) Permanent- 15 Abolished (net) 
Temporary - No change 
Exempt - No change 
An estimated annual saving of $380,307 will be made as a result of the above decrease in departmental establishment. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Increase in Positions  (Question No. 126) 
'For the information of honourable members I present the first report by the Industries Assistance Commission on galvanised steel coil - by-law, dated 16 January 1974. 
'For the information of honourable members I present the first report by the Industries Assistance Commission on automatic dry cleaning machines - by-law, dated 22 January 1974. 
I will endeavour to clarify the position as quickly as 1 can for the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It was not I who raised the matter by way of question, nor was it I who misunderstood the honourable member's question. It was the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  It is true that about 20,000 tons of oranges are exported to New Zealand each year, very largely from the area with which the honourable member is concerned. The value of these exports is about $2.2m. I assure the honourable member that the Government has done and will do everything that is possible to assist in the continuation of this trade. I have a concern for the citrus growers just as I hope the honourable member has a. concern for the waterside workers and the seamen. I would not for one moment describe citrus growers as stupid. 
The position is that the Union Steamship Company vessel, the Tarawera', which has been carrying this trade is about to be pensioned off and it cannot continue to carry the trade without a SO per cent cost increase which is unacceptable to the New Zealand importers. That is a fact of life, that is the starting point and that is where the trouble occurred. If enterprise was what it is represented to be this ship would not have been continued in operation for nearly so long. The alternative, as the Minister for Transport pointed out on the adjournment debate of 20 March, is for an Australian National Line rollon roll-off ship to come into the trade to carry the 20,000 tons a year economically. It is not true that, as has been claimed by Riv-Sam Pty Ltd, which wrote to the honourable member on 18 March 1974, the ANL has been refused entry into the trade by the New Zealand seamen's union. The position is that it has been agreed between the Australian and 
New Zealand unions that Australian ships can enter the trade provided the ships are crewed by Australian or New Zealand seamen. If an ANL ship is available for this trade and is crewed by an Australian crew it will be quite free to enter the trade. The ANL has undertaken to see whether such a ship can be provided. The Department of Transport stated last week that it has asked the Department of Primary Industry to request Riv-Sam Pty Ltd to discuss this matter with the ANL and to see what can be arrived at. It is essentially an arrangement between the exporting company of the citrus fruit from Australia - that is Riv-Sam Pty Ltd- and the ANL. There is a very good prospect that the ANL will be able to take up the trade but it depends upon an arrangement like any other arrangement of a businesss nature between the company and the ANL. I think action has already been taken in the last several days so that suitable arrangements can be made. I have no further information than that, but I expect that a satisfactory arrangement can be arrived at. I see no difficulties provided ANL can make available a ship suitable for the trade. I expect that it can do so. 
 in reply - In closing the debate I should first of all like to say that it is very pleasing that the Opposition is supporting the measure and that there is so much agreement in the House about the necessity for aid and in fact about the necessity for an agency of this kind. I was particularly impressed yesterday with the speech by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who gave a quiet, reasoned presentation. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  did also. I was also impressed by the speeches from this side by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I would say that specifically, in relation to the speeches I have heard this afternoon, it seemed to me that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  was somewhat patronising not only towards the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but also toward the Government of Papua New Guinea. He pointed out that the Government of Papua New Guinea approved of the establishment of an agency and then he said: That is what one could expect because the Government of Papua New Guinea is getting a great deal of aid - $500m.' I think that the character of what the honourable member for Curtin said throughout most of his speech was in that context, and I would dismiss it. 
I think that the point made just now by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  in wanting this Government after 15 months in office to allow contributions to private agency funds to be tax deductible - to my knowledge for 8 or 9 years that was asked of previous governments of which he was a supporter - shows up in strange contrast. I am sure that I could list, if I knew enough about it, at least two or three members of his Party who also supported that view - and he mentioned also the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who presumably did so from this side. So I do not think that the honourable member for Angas has made much political capital out of that point, and I see no other reason for raising it at all. 
This Bill deals with the structure of aid. To be relevant to it - which is not always the practice in this House - one would have to  discuss structure. The Prime Minister has been criticised for being relevant, that is for keeping his speech to an examination of the subject matter of the Bill and not wandering around the world in respect to aid. He was followed by the spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  who reminded me of that prominent member of the legal firm of Ranting and Raving, who rather than use logic used histrionics. I do not know whether the honourable member for Kooyong did this as a conscious thing or whether he was just led into it by the prevailing practice in the House these days. But I was not impressed by this attempt to say that the Government must be committed to more aid. I remember that being said from the Opposition side in respect to preceding governments for the greater part of the 19 years that I have been a member of this House - and it was valid. The preceding governments should have been committed to more aid and the present 'government should be more committed to aid. But I do not think the Opposition spokesman needed to use two-thirds of his speech asserting that point. I think that aid is marginal in the future of developing countries, although it is important. But I do stress that it is marginal. What is needed in most of the developing countries where aid is most relevant is a deep transformation in the social and economic life of the people. I emphasise that this must be brought about by the people themselves. 
It is not likely tobe very democratic, either. But hopefully one would expect that it would not be too much resisted by the developing countries. But whilst aid is important and we must give it increasing attention I think it is only marginal to the future of the 2,000 million people who have been referred to several times in the course of this debate. In view of the references to the  President  of the World Bank that have been made in this debate, I should like to say that I am very glad indeed that the  President  of the World Bank is making the kinds of statements now that were quoted and recorded on page 874 of the parliamentary debates, as given in the speech of the honourable member for Macarthur. The  President  of the World Bank is now stressing the needs of a developing world in which children under 5 account for only 20 per cent of the population but for more than 60 per cent of the deaths. He said: 
A developing world in which two-thirds of the children who have escaped death will live on, restricted in their growth by malnutrition . . . 
A developing world in which there are 100 million more adult illiterates than there were 20 years ago. 
A developing world, in short, in which death and disease are rampant, education and employment scarce, squalor and stagnation prominent, and opportunity and the realisation of personal potential drastically limited. This is the world of today for the 2,000 million human beings-- 
I am very glad indeed that the  President  of the World Bank,  Mr McNamara,  stressed that point, and I approve of that completely and have done so for many years. What I was trying to point out in an interjection to the honourable member for Kooyong is that the  President  of the World Bank has not always been in that position. Again I refer to what was said by the honourable member for Macarthur as recorded on page 875 of the parliamentary debates. He said: 
More than 6 per cent of the total world output is devoted to the military - 21/2 times what all governments spend on health . . . 
He continued: 
The Committee on Foreign Relations of the United States Senate estimated that the full budgetary cost of the Vietnam war to the United States from 1965 to 1970 was $104.4 billion- a per capita cost of $500, 
That was presumably $500 for each American citizen. During those years  Mr McNamara  was the Secretary of State of the United States that carried out that war. I was merely pointing out that I realise that  Mr McNamara  had not always been in his present position. I am very glad indeed that he now is. 
There was some criticism of the Prime Minister because of his second reading speech on the Bill, presumably because he confined himself so much to the relevance of the Bill. But the Prime Minister pointed out that the Australian Government is fully determined that its aid will serve the objectives that are agreed upon. This is one of the reasons why the Agency is being created. I do not think that there is any room for doubt that the Government sees aid as a contribution by the Australian people to the welfare of our less fortunate neighbours and that this is the way in which the people of this country want to see it. 
Several members of the Opposition expressed regret that the Prime Minister had not been able to say more about aid policies in his second reading speech. In fact the speech gave some very important guide lines as to the objectives of the new Agency, such as ensuring greater attention to the welfare and distributive effects of our aid, in improved evaluation of our aid programs, in bringing greater expertise into our staffing arrangements and in more directly associating the community with the programs. Since taking office the Government has broken much new ground in the aid field, such as accepting a commitment to the United Nations target of devoting 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to foreign aid and contributing to international activities in the field of family planning. The Prime Minister pointed out in his speech that over the years there has been a great increase in the volume and complexity of Australia's economic aid. He made no attempt to take anything away from previous governments in relation to that. He went back to the Colombo Plan. He spoke of developments since 1950. He spoke of the Special Commonwealth African assistance plan, the South Pacific aid program and other bilateral programs. He took nothing away from previous governments. I think it is to be regretted that the Opposition spokesman and some of the Opposition members who followed him - only some - endeavoured to take something away from the Prime Minister. 
The purpose of this Bill was not to enable us to discuss those things or even, as I have said, to point out deficiencies in one side or the other. It was to bring to the notice of the House that for good reasons that have been widely recognised it was necessary to bring into existence in Australia a new organisation to prevent the morass and the proliferation. The Prime Minister said in his second reading speech: 
In this 20 years of growth and diversification since the foundingof the Colombo Plan, the organisational structure to administer our expanding aid programs developed in an ad hoc fashion, with functions distributed and shared among various departments. Up to December 1973, the Department of External Territories administered aid to Papua New Guinea. Bilateral aid to countries other than PNG was administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Department of Education administered the . Commonwealth Co-operation in Education scheme, and played a substantial role as a training authority for government-sponsored trainees under all aid schemes. The Treasury maintained an interest in all Australian aid proposals..... Many other departments, though not connected primarily with the aid function, had activities with aid aspects or implications. The solution was cumbersome and clearly in need of review. 
The purpose of this Bill was to try to rectify that situation. Hardly any of the spokesmen on the Opposition side have even recognised that. This deficiency was apparent and in March of last year the Prime Minister commissioned a task force to examine all the options for a unified administration to administer all aid, including multilateral aid, all bilateral aid and aid to an independent Papua New Guinea. 
The Prime Minister appointed a committee to have a look at this and to see what could be done. He pointed out that the report of the committee of 6 March 1973 included the following recommendation: 
The existing structure involving dispersal of aid functions among several departments needs to be substantially reviewed in the light of the increased complexities and sophistication of development assistance and to accommodate the administration of aid to an independent Papua New Guinea. 
I think that what the committee concluded is what everyone else has concluded or should conclude. Therefore, it seems to me that there was a very strong case for the establishment of an agency somewhat along these lines. I think it is a pity that in some ways the debate did not refer to whether that was thought to be justified or not. 
Some honourable members queried the responsibility of the Agency to the Minister and through him to Parliament. I point out that clause 6 (3) of the Bill provides: 
The Director-General is the executive officer of the Agency and shall, subject to and in accordance with the directions of the Minister, conduct the affairs of the Agency. 
I think I heard one member of the Opposition say that he preferred a situation like that. I do not know what other members of the Opposition think about it. But certainly the Government prefers a situation like that for an agency of this kind. It is quite clear that the Minister will have control of the Agency and it follows that the Minister will be answerable to Parliament for all that the Agency does. Moreover, clause 30 of the Bill provides that the Agency shall give the Minister a report on its operations, together with financial statements, for presentation to Parliament. 
Some question was raised on the score of defence aid. Reference to the definition in clause 3 makes it clear that defence aid is entirely outside the ambit of the Agency. For the purposes of the Bill, 'aid' is defined to mean aid for social and economic development and for disaster relief. This is clear and unequivocal. So the answer to the question raised by some Opposition speakers is that this Agency has nothing to do with defence aid. A number of other questions raised in the debate deserve a brief comment, and I want to be as brief as I can. I appreciate the concern expressed by some honourable members about the excessive cost of multilaterial institutions. Not all multilateral institutions, however, are in this category and there are many reasons why Australia, like other members of the international community, should support them. I think it can be assumed that the Agency will pay close attention to this matter. 
Some question was raised about the advisability of placing more emphasis on training overseas rather than in Australia. The Prime Minister has indicated already the Government's sympathy with this approach and aid officials already are examining ways of stepping up the assistance currently being given in this field. With reference to comments made this afternoon, I think that training in Aus tralia can be subject to beneficial reassessment in respect of aid abroad, and I expect that this Agency will soon be well equipped to do that. I think that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  correctly raised this point. The Prime Minister has mentioned already that we are quite conscious of the need for improvement in this area of training and this will be one of the tasks of the Agency. 
The Government also is aware of the negative effects which other policies adopted by developed countries can have on developing countries. We already have shown evidence of our concern in this field by improving the trade preference scheme for less developed countries. In reply to the remarks just made by the honourable member for Angas in which he presumably calls on the Government for an improvement in this area, let me say that there is no exaggeration in putting the position this way: In IS months, by tariff reductions generally, by tariff reductions specifically in respect of some industries such as footwear and textiles and by tariff reduction for lesser developed countries, this Government has done more than any other Australian government had done in 10 years. Some concern was expressed about the abuses to which aid is sometimes subject in recipient countries. I know that particular countries have been mentioned in this regard. But I am assured that Australian aid to the countries that have been mentioned is not going astray and is now and has been under very careful control. It is quite clear that the Development Assistance Agency will be in a better position to see that those safeguards are applied in the future. 
The only other thing I want to say is that several honourable members have expressed their confidence in the man who will be recommended to the Governor-General as the first Director-General of the Agency, namely  Mr L.  W. Johnson. The Prime Minister, of course, shares the confidence that honourable members have expressed in  Mr Johnson.  Although I do not know him personally, I too share that confidence. I am sure that  Mr Johnson  and the Agency in turn will pay great attention to the views which have been expressed on both sides of the House in this debate and will find in them a good deal that is helpful in the very challenging task of beginning the overseeing of the improvement in Australia's aid performance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
As a personal explanation just on that account, let me say that that is exactly what I said. One can take whatever interpretation one chooses - the one I took or the one the honourable member took. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
As the term 'electrical goods' is capable of differing interpretations the statistics in the following tables have been confined to commodities included in 
Division 72, Electrical Machinery, Apparatus and Appliances' of the Australian import and export commodity classifications. Attention is drawn to the fact, however, that Division 72 does not include all commodities which could be described as electrical. Exceptions include automatic data processing and other office machines, sound reproducing and recording equipment and record players. 
The most important part of the question is whether the increase in the volume of imports that has recently taken place will be of benefit to the Australian consumer. The increase in imports that has taken place in the first 8 months of 1973-74, compared with the first 8 months of 1972-73, is $ 1,023.7m or 38 per cent. This is a massive increase and it must have had a very great effect on diminishing the extent of inflation in Australia that would otherwise have occurred. Of course, the benefits of this massive increase in imports cannot be assumed to be proportionate to the size of the increase. In a number of instances we have had evidence of and complaints that the lower cost of imports because of the tariff cuts and the appreciation of the currency have not been passed on to the consumer. When demand is excessive there is a tendency, both in the wholesale and the retail trade, for the sellers to take full advantage of that demand. This is a matter of very great concern to the Government. 
I have consulted with colleagues in several departments on this question and the appropriate departments have been asked to investigate avenues to establish whether the benefits of the tariff cuts are being passed on and to recommend to Ministers ways in which the Government can ensure that these benefits are not being withheld from Australian consumers and end users of the imported products. The Government is most concerned at the extent to which suppliers have taken advantage of shortages and of excess demand. The Government will do everything in its power to see that the benefits of the lower costs arising from tariff cuts and exchange appreciation are passed on to the consumer. 
 I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These 2 Bills are being reintroduced now so that, in the event of the Senate refusing Supply, they will become an issue - an essential part of the action - in any double dissolution election which would follow. The Australian people would expect the Australian Industry Development Corporation to be a central part of that election. The belief that Australia was being sold out has by now become a conviction. In August I introduced Bills to set up the National Investment Fund and to expand the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Few Bills have been more widely discussed. Everyone in Parliament knows what is in them. There is no need for the Opposition to pretend that it needs time to discuss these Bills. Rarely in recent times have 2 pieces of legislation been better known and more widely discussed than these. The 
Opposition has had months to get to know the Bills and to criticise them. More than that, the Opposition has had time to obstruct, distort and fail to pass the Bills in the Senate. The Opposition wants to get back into office. (Quorum formed.) 
Of course, the exhibition of eagerness - one might say greed - that has been shown by some members of the Opposition in recent times means that they would deny Labor any chance to show what can be done. They want office again. But I think that many people who did not feel strongly about the last election will feel strongly about this one. They will feel angry about the posturing of the Liberal and Country Party leaders, whose greed for office drives them to false indignation. The Australian Industry Development Corporation was something for which the Australian Labor Party had a mandate, but the Government has been obstructed and hindered. It has been prevented from showing what can be done by AIDC. The Corporation was first established with one hand tied behind its back and with restrictions upon its independent action. It could do few of the things which could be done by massive foreign competitors or even by its Australian competitors for funds. So true is this that the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control concluded in October 1973: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Australian Industry Development Corporation are both performing important tasks. However, at this stage of their development, due to causes beyond their control, their role is far too insignificant to be considered a major force in the capital market. The Committee recommends that the activities of both these 2 bodies be expanded further. 
It seemed beyond doubt that on 30 October 1973 when the Australian Labor Party Government introduced Bills to expand the activities of AIDC the Opposition in the House and in the Senate would give them serious consideration. I left plenty of time for that to be done. The Bills introduced on 30 August were not called on for debate until 16 October  -  47 days later. So do not let me hear any talk tonight about not having had time to study these Bills or to get to know what was in them. 
Let us look at the attitude of the Opposition. The official spokesman, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  said, as recorded at page 2166 of Hansard: 
I have outlined the general basis on which the Opposition rejects both  Bills. 
Finally, at the end of his speech, at page 2168 he said: 
The  Opposition rejects both Bills. 
In order to show how completely the Opposition rejected the move to expand AIDC and in case anyone has any doubt about as to who leads the Opposition, let me remind honourable members that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said at page 2173 of Hansard: 
I oppose this Bill in its entirety for reasons I will explain. 
It was not only opposition to some part of the 2 Bills; it was also rejection of them - rejection in entirety. The Opposition was not only unconcerned that its own Senate Select Committee had concluded after inquiry that AIDC and the Australian Resources Development Bank were far too insignificant to be considered a major force in the capital market and recommended that the activities of both these bodies be expanded; it was also unconcerned that the majority of the Australian people were appalled at the sell out of Australia and wanted something to be done. 
Both the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill passed the House of Representatives on 17 and 18 October respectively and were so certified by the  Clerk  as ready for presentation to the Senate. On 23 October both Bills were presented to the Senate. It was then that tactics which now appear to be little more than delaying or obstructing began. It was not until 28 November - nearly 5 weeks later - that the Senate found itself able to make a decision about the 2 Bills. A year earlier its Select Committee had found that AIDC and the Australian Resources Development Bank were too insignificant to perform a major task and should be expanded, yet the Senate took 5 weeks even to begin to consider Bills which had that purpose. Having found time to consider the Bills the Senate decided not to pass them, wholly or in part, but referred them to the same Select Committee for inquiry and report, not at some definite future date but as soon as possible' and not later than 12 March. But 'as soon as possible' did not mean much and 12 March has come and gone. It is already 25 days since 12 March - the date fixed by the Senate itself as the date beyond which the Committee should not go - and there has been no report from the Committee and no action by the Senate. There te no doubt about who controls the Senate. That is the pride and glory of the Opposition. I think only one or two divisions in favour of the Government have been carried in the Senate out of the last 30. The Opposition dominates the Senate and has used that domination to obstruct and hinder every action that has been taken in respect of these 2 Bills. 
On 7 March 1974 the House of Representatives adopted a resolution requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the 2 Bills, but there has been no response from the Senate. It seems now to be clear beyond doubt that the Opposition has rejected the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill and that the Senate has obstructed and hindered their passage until it has now become equally clear that the Senate has failed to pass the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. The Opposition in this House has already stated its position clearly and perhaps arrogantly. It rejects the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill in their entirety. I submit that it is beyond reason to expect that the Opposition needs much more time to reject, perhaps arrogantly, these 2 Bills. There is therefore no particular reason why we should waste time on the matter here. These Bills are being submitted to the House now so that they may be sent to the Senate without humbug or delay. The Government wants to know where the Senate stands. Does it want to stand against the Government and against the will of the Australian people as was clearly expressed in December 1972, or will it consent to give effect to the will of the people? 
There are few matters upon which the will of the people is more clear than it is about the strengthening of the AIDC. The Australian people want something to be done to stop the sell-out of Australia. They want the AIDC to be strengthened to become a significant force in the capital market to help retain Australian ownership and control. Strategic sectors of Australia's economy are no longer in Australia's hands. Much of the farm has been sold off, as  Sir John  McEwen put it. More will fall to overseas based corporations unless the community recognises, with the Government, that our economic system requires a new element of organisation and direction to equal the challenge for abroad. Australia's economy is part of the world economy. It is subject to penetration by the giant corporations that dominate the world economy. Our companies will survive only if they have the backing of finance, technology and management to meet the overseas challenge. The Australian companies will not survive in a climate which assumes that the myths of nineteenth century laissez-faire capitalism are the realities of the twentieth century economic organisations. 
Much more of Australia would be in Australian hands today if there had been a concerted effort of this kind to organise and co-ordinate available financial resources into Australian enterprises. The AIDC will marshal and increase Australian funds for investment in Australian development. It will co-ordinate private investment in large projects of the kind seen in the Redcliffs petro-chemical plant in South Australia and the Alwest alumina plant in Western Australia. It will be able to expedite technological advance and managerial success by assisting individuals and firms with new ideas and techniques. It will thereby enable Australians to prosper from their own creativity instead of being forced to pawn their technology to overseas companies. The AIDC will be concerned also with national interest activities. We have no intention of leaving the exploitation of Australia's rich natural resources and energy alone to a handful of giant private corporations. 
Only the blindest of the exponents of private property profit, like the honourable member for Cowper who is harping like a cockatoo on a tree in the honourable member's electorate, will deny a public corporation like the AIDC the right to share in Bass Strait oil, Northern Territory uranium or North West Shelf natural gas. The Australian people want a corporation like the AIDC that is public property to have a share in those rich resources instead of seeing them being handed out by the Bjelke-Petersens and the Opposition in this House to one overseas corporation after another, in some cases for the receipt in exchange of a wide range of shares, such as has been issued to the members of the Government in Queensland. Indeed the AIDC will be used to strengthen small private enterprise against hig enterprises. There are many farmers who would like to establish co-operatives. Many co-operatives already have been established as successful, viable enterprises, but they need the funds which private banks and other lenders may not advance because they are not top drawer business prospects or because private lenders may be too closely associated with large competitors of the co-operatives. The AIDC can play an important part in encouraging the development of sound enterprises like co-operatives in rural areas. The farmers need strengthening in these activities. They need more than political talk in order to get a better price for their products without also increasing the cost to the consumers in the cities upon whom they so much depend. 
 I move: 
That the Bills be now read a  third  time. 
I take this opportunity to say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the spokesman for the Opposition, has again stated clearly the intention of the Opposition to oppose and to reject this legislation. This confirms the reason behind the Government's thinking in introducing these 2 Bills unchanged into the House for the second time. It is quite clear that the Opposition completely rejects this legislation. That became clear in the Senate when the Senate decided to refer these Bills to a select committee. We in the Australian Labor Party, not having the numbers in the Senate, could not prevent this happening. 
The members of the Labor Party served on this committee. I said that I was obliged to accept that. I hoped that the Senate would give genuine consideration to the examination of these Bills in the Senate but it seems to me now, as a result of the undue amount of time taken - I point out that the Senate had decided that the committee should report as soon as possible and not later than 12 March, but now 12 March has long since passed - and the continued statements by the spokesman for the Opposition, that the Opposition completely rejects these Bills, indicates to me that very little was genuine in the attitude of the Opposition parties, the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party, in the Senate and that it was not their intention to give these Bills serious consideration, but it was merely their intention to delay and to fail to pass the legislation. 
It is clear to me now that the Senate has failed to pass the legislation because of the intention of the 2 main Opposition parties. I aave introduced these Bills so that they become in issue and on the agenda. Should the Senate efuse supply it can now see clearly that we intend to proceed with our legislation. We will meet that challenge in full. It is now up to the Opposition to decide whether it will vote against these Bills, as it is up to the Opposition to decide whether it will deny supply. The situation has . now been placed firmly and clearly before the Opposition. I make that clear at this stage on the third reading of these Bills. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, this Bill provides for the validation until 31 August 1974 of the duties collected in pursuance of those Customs Tariff Proposals which have not been enacted to date. The tariff changes validated by the Bill relate to Tariff Board reports on: 
Acetone Derivatives; Ethyl Methyl Ketone 
Agricultural Machinery, etc; Lawn Sprinklers 
Agricultural Tractors 
Cathode Ray Tubes 
Cherries 
Consumer Electronic Equipment and Components Domestic Appliances, Heating and Cooling Apparatus 
Earthmoving, Construction' and Materials Handling 
Equipment, etc. Engines, Motors, Pumps and Valves  Fire Hose Lightning Arresters 
Machine Tools for Working Stone, etc., and Wood etc.; Pneumatic Hand Tools, etc.; NZAFTA - Machine Tools for Working Wood, etc.; Chain Saws (Dumping and Subsidies Act) 
Metal Plates, etc. for Printing Purposes 
Prepared Additives for Mineral Oils, etc. 
Products of the Printing Industry 
Resins of the Propylene Type, and 
Synthetic Rubber Latex and the following reports by the Special Advisory Authority: 
Industrial Type Plastic Coated Knitted Gloves, and Phthalic Anhydride 
The 25 per cent tariff cut and the revised and expanded system of tariff preferences for imports from developing countries are also being validated by the Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
in reply- The Bills that have been introduced of course contain a wide range of action taken by the Government on the recommendation of the Tariff Board or the Industries Assistance Commission as it now is. The spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  has raised a number of questions which, before the debate closes, I should like to deal with. Firstly, he referred to the preference scheme for the lesser developed countries and he claimed credit for the Opposition for having started this scheme. He claimed leadership for the Opposition, as the then Government in Australia, for initiating this scheme in respect of many countries. I take nothing away from the Opposition as the then Government in respect to that. Our Government has carried on developments in this area and we have done so with the care that the honourable gentleman wants. 
Departmentally, very careful examinations have been made of the probable or even possible effects of the tariff reductions that have been granted in respect of the products of the lesser developed countries. A number of exceptions have been made already with care for the effect of reductions upon Australian industry. That care will continue to be taken. But I remind the House that there has been a great deal of conservatism in tariff matters in this Parliament. Very often Australian industry has been accorded too much attention in the changes that have to take place in a world where we have a responsibility to have regard to the welfare of our own people and also to make our contribution to the development of peoples in other countries, especially the lesser developed countries. 
Both under preceding governments and under this one I think, that if anything, excessive care has been taken to protect Australia. The bias has been on that side. I think the Australian people would expect us to take adequate care, but also to do our share in improving the conditions of trade for the lesser developed countries and for improving world trade as a whole. We have to make our contribution to that. The honourable gentleman also referred to tariff reductions in general. I am sure that he would agree with me, in fact he would have been well in advance of me until recently, when I say that we have been very conservative in tariff policy in Australia. We have been conservative, very often with the effect that it has not been in the interests of our own industries or our own workers to have an allocation of resources that are in fact significantly inefficient. It is not in the interests of workers that they should be employed in inefficient places. It is not in the interests of Australian industry that it should be encouraged to be employed in inefficient places. 
I suppose the interjection from the honourable member from South Australia would mean that there are no inefficient industries in Australia. He asked me who said that they are inefficient. The honourable member for Berowra has said so before. The Tariff Board, the Industries Assistance Commission has said that there are industries in Australia that are not efficient. Industry itself recognises that. I think a somewhat more radical view of tariff making was necessary in Australia from that which has prevailed over a number of years. I miss the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  around here today. I think a more radical approach to tariff making prevailed when we reduced the tariff rates generally by 25 per cent in May last year. 
Was it not May? Well, in July. We were told then that this would result in a great deal of unemployment. But until now fewer than 100 people have notified the employment service that they believe their change of jobs has been the result of tariff reduction. I predicted at that time that in the next 12 months we would probably have $700m more of exports than we had at that time and that we would still have our Australian industries functioning at full capacity and that demand would be sufficient for both. That has proved correct and that has been a great asset. 
Would the honourable member suggest that we should not have taken that action because the situation might be different in 12 months time? What would the honourable member have done, about inflation? What would any of those who sit behind him have done? I say that as a result of the Government's policy inflation is 10 per cent less today than it would have been had we not taken that action. I think the Australian people would agree that we have been thoroughly justified in our actions. 
The honourable member for Berowra talked about the automotive industry and mentioned that I said the other day that one did not need a crystal ball to expect that the Industries Assistance Commission would recommend a reduced tariff in relation to that industry. I did say that. I want people to know and I want the industry to know that this is the kind of decision that the Industries Assistance Commission would probably make. The honourable member asked me whether it is the Government's tariff policy to accept the position taken by the Tariff Board in 1967 when it introduced certain arithmetic limits - 25 per cent, 50 per cent and so on. He tells me now that these arithmetic levels are not accepted by the Opposition. When I was on the other side of the House from 1967 to 1972, for 5 long years, I was continuously asking the Government the same question and I never got an answer. This is the first time that I have been asked this question as Minister for Overseas Trade and I will give honourable members opposite the answer now. It is not the policy of the Government to adopt the position of the Tariff Board as stated in 1967 with these arithmetic levels. But for 5 years when I was in Opposition I asked the then Government about this matter, but not one word of answer was ever given. This is the first time honourable members opposite have asked me this question and I am very glad to give them the answer. 
 My ground is exactly as it was when I was on the Opposition side of the House. At that time I rejected this approach. The Government's policy in respect of this question is that each Industries Assistance Commission report is treated as advisory and each one will be considered and dealt with on its merits. The Government is not committed to that kind of arithmetic classification of Australian industry. I make that clear. I wanted for 5 years to get the same assurance from the previous Government. 
The honourable member mentioned consumer electronic equipment and components. He wants to know what the position is. The Industries Assistance Commission, or the Tariff Board as it was previously, recommended a reduction of tariffs delayed for a period of 3 years. The Government decided to accept the recommendation but adopted a provision applying the reduction over 3 years and a subsidy of up to$25m would be provided for the production of components of technological significance. In respect of this matter,  Mr Arthur  D. Little was retained to report on international developments in components and 3 Australian consultants were retained to look at the local situation. The local consultants' reports have been submitted already and  Mr Little's  report will be submitted next week. In the meantime, the responsible Department is working with local industry groups for the identification of the kind of components which have defence or technological and telecommunications significance so that this program of subsidy can be applied in practice. 
I mention too that in this industry, as in a number of other industries, another important development has taken place. The Opposition actually initiated it. It is a system of panels. It is a system which was very informal when I became the Minister for Secondary Industry. It has become much more positive now. I think there are eight or nine panels and one of them is concerned with this industry. The panels consist of representatives of management and unions and sometimes other people. In this industry the panels have had a number of meetings. I attended one recently for the electronics industry as Minister for Overseas Trade with the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and I was glad to learn that the panel of the industry, union and workers alike, accepted the decisions that the Government had made about tariff reductions and the provision of subsidies and undertook to work practically to arrive at a way in which those suhsidies could be used to produce the most effective and viable industry that we can have. We have progressed that far and we believe we will progress considerably further. It is my belief that the function of the panels - in the case of the textile industry, the textile authority that has been established in association with the Industries Assistance Commission - represents an almost radically new development in the process of industry development in this country. I have great confidence about that as a continuing development 
Yes. The spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Berowra, has asked me to say something about . the Government's policy in respect of tariffs. I do not want to take too much time but I will answer the question as much as I can in brief. I have made a number of speeches in the past two or three months in which I have said a great deal on this matter. I hope the honourable member has not missed it. First of all, the Government has brought into existence the Industries Assistance Commission. The significance of that Commission is that it holds public inquiries into the need for assistance. Of course there is nothing new in that - that was the position of the Tariff Board - but it is essential in questions of assistance that there should be a public inquiry; that those who think they need the assistance, those who believe that there should not be assistance and others should have the opportunity publicly of stating their case and having that case examined. That is the first requirement. 
The by-law position has also been under very close examination. 
Not publicly. Considerable changes have been made with respect to the operation of those by-laws. I should think the second principle of tariff policy is that the Government believes that competition is the motivating force of this economy and that tariff making, the provision of subsidies and so forth must be geared to increasing competition. 
Right. The Industries Assistance Commission of course will be expected to take that into account. A number of other points were made in the Bill that established the Industries Assistance Commission so that the Commission could have guidance for the first time about the criteria that it has to take into account. When the recommendations come from the Industries Assistance Commission they come to the Government from an advisory body. They will be considered on their merits. The Government will have regard not only to the existing structure of industry, about which a recommendation might be made, but also to the fact that if an industry is to be viable and efficient perhaps the structure has to change. I look forward to the time when through the industry panels and in other ways we will be able to develop in this country an effective way of examining an industry objectively so as to bring about improved designs for it and achieve that form of operation by the industry changing its structure to meet the needs. We oan examine an industry and we can examine part of an industry, and the Industries Assistance Commission may decide that that industry is viable and efficient, but the industry as a whole may not be. The industry as a whole has to be taken into account. I do not think it is enough merely to reduce tariffs and leave it to the forces of the market to bring about some new situation. The market is not always very rational and the market is not always very competitive. What the market decides is not always in the best interests of the community. I think it is time that there was a more radical attitude to tariff making in this country. That attitude has come about. I believe also that we have to graduate these changes. 
If there was a next principle that I wanted to put forward in relation to tariff making it would be that I want to see changes graduated. I do not want to see sudden, incisive, substantial changes. That is in the interests of nobody. They must be graduated changes. Secondly, if we are to get the best result, there must be very often some form of adjustment assistance. One knows very well that if industry is to be changed greatly there will be resistance from the (management and the unions. 
Mir Edwards - Are you in a position to offer adjustment assistance? 
We are. We have already provided S25m for adjustment assistance in relation to the 25 per cent tariff cut, and hardly a dollar of it has been needed. But it is there in case it is needed. This was an innovation. It was never done before. From my own point of view, I was ready to accept and to adopt the 25 per cent tariff cut because I knew that standing behind that we had the means at any rate to provide adjustment assistance should it be needed. It has not been needed, but it is there if it is wanted. I believe that we need more expedition in the development of the adjustment assistance machinery. I believe that we need tariff reform, not necessarily simply thinking of it in terms of reduction. If this reform is to be effective we need to have the necessary social adjustment machinery to make sure that we do not generate such opposition that we are stopped in the course of reform. 
The spokesman for the Opposition said that industry has taken a bashing from the Government. He will know that Australian industry at the moment is returning profits that are higher than ever before in history. 
It is universal. The honourable member for Berowra will know that there has been no disemployment. He will know that no industry has claimed to be in difficulties because of any of the changes in policy that the Government has brought about. 
 Many people believe that the Australian Parliament is in an unprecedented position. Does the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  think that the petty, minor arguments and points that he raised tonight will be considered by the Australian people when they are determining that situation? We are in an unprecedented position because a strongly supported Government, elected with a clear mandate, faces termination of office by a Senate with no mandate at all. The Senate represents the people of the past - those who governed for 23 years as though their power in Australia should never end. In 1972 the Australian people said: 'It's time for a change'. But the Government they elected has never been given a chance to govern.  (Quorum  formed.) I thank honourable members for finally finding their way into the House. 
Twenty-three years of government is not enough for the people of the past. The forces of the past are emerging again. Constitutional lawyers are indignant at the type of unprecedented action by which they seek to emerge. An example of this is the view of 

 Sir Robert Menzies quoted in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 1 1 March 1 968.  Sir Robert  Menzies stated: 
In the House of Representatives, 25 members (South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania) could never defeat 85 members from the three larger States. It would be a falsification of democracy if, on any matter of Government policy approved by the House of Representatives, possibly by a large majority, the Senate, representing the States and not the people, could reverse the decision .... Otherwise a Senate opposition whose party had just been completely defeated at a general election, would be in command of the Government of the nation. This would be absurd, as a denial of popular democracy. 
That is precisely the position we are in today. I will leave members of the Opposition to reconcile themselves to the view of the man who led them for so long. 
How did this unprecedented situation come about? It came about because of the appointment of  Senator Gair  as Australian Ambassador to Eire. Ten minutes before the Opposition heard of  Senator Gair's  appointment no member of the Opposition would have thought it was conceivable to take this unprecedented step of rejection of the Appropriation Bills. But Gair's appointment changed all that. Why? Was there anything unusual in it? Was there anything in Gair's appointment that justifies the false indignation of the Liberal-Country Parties? Gair was offered an appointment in the belief that, if he accepted it, it would make it more likely that the Labor Party - the Government of Australia - would win one more Queensland Senate seat. What party that has ever been represented in this Parliament would not have done that and thought it was fully justified? Some would have thought that was very clever. What about Anthony, Sinclair, Nixon and Lynch? Perhaps not Snedden - not because of any moral objection but because he would not have been quick enough to think of it. Of course, any party in this House would appoint an Opposition senator to a diplomatic post, if it could find one to agree, just as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recommended  Mr Gair  for appointment as Australian Ambassador to Ireland. But  Mr Gair  is not a national event. He is not a man about whom Supply should be stopped.  Mr Gair  will have been forgotten in a week or two and then we will have nothing but an Opposition which wants an election because it thinks it could win. 
But expediency of this kind can cause the political instability which endangered government in France, Germany and other countries. If Australia is to have a system of government in which the government can be eroded, obstructed and frustrated and forced to an election every year or so, people will despise the whole process. Those who should be accused of immorality are those who refused to accept the elected Labor Government of December 1972, those who have become inflated with power for 20 years previously, and those who set out to obstruct and hinder the elected Government of Australia in every possible way. I believe that the Australian people will reject the Sneddens and the Anthonys who refused to give the Labor Government a chance. This Government is the government of the majority of the working people of Australia, who have had no Australian Government for 20 years and more. This Government of the majority of the working people of Australia has not been given a fair go. I believe that many Australians will be more angry about that than about anything else for many years. I believe 'hey should be. 1 ask them to say loudly and clearly whom they want to be the government of this country. I ask them to judge the government on its performance compared with that of the only alternative - a discredited team lead by a discredited leader, not only for one year but for year after year. 
When Gair is forgotten the real issues of this election will be seen. The first real issue is inflation. Australia is not an isolated country in which inflation or depression is caused by events here. Australia is part of the world economy. Inflation and depression are caused by world forces of which the forces of the Australian economy are only a small part - perhaps a one-hundredth part, or much less. The truth is that there is not much Australia can do to insulate itself against inflation. There is certainly more that can be done to prevent and reduce depression. But the inflation of 1973-74 was a result of world conditions, of conditions which began to operate in Australia and in the world before the Labor Party became the Government in December 1972. 
Since then, Labor has done much to reduce inflation in Australia. We have appreciated the dollar, reduced tariffs, cut expenditure and created a climate in which private business activity of all kinds has reached record levels. If this had not been done, price increases in 
Australia in the last 12 months could have been 10 per cent higher. The rate of inflation could have been 23 per cent, not 13 per cent. If a Liberal-Country Party government had been in our place, the result would have been inflation at 23 per cent instead of 13 per cent because the Anthony-led Country Party would have relentlessly opposed currency appreciation and the Liberal Party would have been afraid to reduce tariffs. Inflation would have been at 23 per cent and little would have been done to offset it. A Liberal-Country Party government would have refused to increase pensions because expenditure is inflationary. It would have opposed wage increases relentlessly because wage increases are inflationary, and bitter industrial disputes would have occurred. 
In contrast, if honourable members compare the figures on industrial disputes in 1973, the Labor Government's first year, with the figures for 1972, the last year of the Liberal Government, they will find that the number of disputes, the number of working days lost and the estimated loss of wages have increased but the number of workers actually involved has fallen. This is normal in any year of expansion and inflation, irrespective of which party is the government. If the Liberals had been the government in 1973 industrial disputes would have been far greater. If we compare 1973 with 1971 - not nearly as much a year of expansion - we find that the number of disputes and estimated wages lost in those 2 years are about the same; but both the number of workers involved in the disputes and the number of working days lost in 1973 is much less than in 1971. One does not have to go back far to find that the claims of the Liberals about industrial disputes are completely false. But industrial disputes under the Liberal-Country Party coalition in times of expansion and inflation would wreck the economy. They would not support fair wage increases. They would freeze wages. They would not conciliate the parties. They would arrest the workers. If we were to reduce inflation much more than the Government has done many people would be hurt. First of all farmers would be hurt. The Labor Government refuses to hurt farmers. Farm income was permitted to rise from $892m to $2, 885m. Meat exports were not taxed or restricted. 
Like business activities, farm income and activities are at levels which are records for all time. Just look at wheat. This year 11 million tons will be produced. Last year it was just over 6 million tons. How much worse would inflation be if we had only 6 million tons of wheat this year. And farmers will be paid for this wheat. It is sold already. We have seen to it that all the wheat, sugar and coal we can produce has been sold. But if a Liberal- Country Party Government were elected to Parliament it would be prepared to hurt people to try to deal with inflation. Its remedy for inflation is unemployment, and then we would have both unemployment and inflation. This was the result in 1971-72 and the people rightly rejected the Government of McMahon and Snedden which caused it. If the people elect them again, they will cause it again. 
What would happen if the Liberal-Country Party coalition got back into office? It is hostile to public spending. It says that it would reduce it. lt would, but where? Welfare would be the first place to suffer. It would go back to the indignity of 50c or $1 increase in pensions once a year. Pensioners would be able to squeeze out of it only what fear of losing an election would permit, and that very often only in the Budget before an election. We have inflation in Australia - much less than Liberal Party inflation would have been - but we have compensated the people who need assistance in times of inflation. Pensions have been increased 3 times in just over one year. The pension is now $26 - 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings and well on the way to 25 per cent. This is a $6 increase in 15 months, the largest increase in the history of Australia. 
If the Liberal-Country Party coalition had governed Australia during the past 15 months there would have been one increase in pensions at the 1973 Budget time and it would have been no more than a couple of dollars. We have supported wage increases that have been fair and reasonable and necessary to keep up with the cost of living. The result has been that wages have kept up with the cost of living and in some cases have risen more than the cost of living. If the Liberal-Country Party coalition had been in office it would have opposed wage increases and it would have devastated the nation by industrial disputes in its attempts to do so. Prices are high in Australia but they are high in other countries too. Inflation came from the countries in the outside world and in Australia it is no more than comparable with other countries. Prices are high but few people in Australia are worse off than when Labor came into 'office. Everyone has a job, many have two, employment is at record levels and so is production. Prices are high but people have money and they can buy what they need because production is high as well as prices. For most Australians 1973-74 has been the best year they have ever experienced. 
The Government has done much to moderate inflation in Australia but it has not been prepared to spread injury and loss over the nation. Something more can be done about inflation than we have done and we will do it. But what the Liberal-Country Party coalition would do about inflation is to freeze wages and pensions, to outlaw strikes and to spread industrial disputes all over the continent. It would not try to control prices and before long unemployment would appear as it squeezed the economy. I am not forecasting something that has not happened before. It has happened every time the Liberal-Country Party coalition has faced inflation  -  1952, 1961 and of course 1972 when the McMahon Government was thrown out because of it. To cure inflation we need a society with more solidarity than the one we have. Instead of blaming the workers and governments or strikes we need to find out ways of preventing the social and economic conflict that exists in our own society. There can be no quick achievement of this. The Labor Government has treated farmers well and it has treated workers well. It has a right to ask for their response and co-operation. The Labor Government has brought together employers and workers in industry panels. It has involved local resident groups in area improvement programs, in social welfare activities and in the establishment of community health centres. 
None of this can be done without some transfer of power in the Australian community. But this increase in power has been limited by the previous Government to the very smallest amount that is necessary. In Bills like those for the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund we have asked for no more power than is necessary to allow the AIDC to be the co-ordinator of investment, in fact the co-ordinator of internationalised investment in large economic projects in which, without AIDC Australians will have little say at all. This would mean some increases in the power of government but if Australians want to see a solution of the problems in industry, in their community, in/their health services, in con- trolling their own country and in their own destiny, the national Government must have a little more power. Our opponents will call this socialism. Let them do so. But let the people of Australia understand what is involved. Not only is it important what happens inside Australia, but what happens outside Australia is important too. A distinguished Australian journalist, Rohan Rivett, has recently returned after travelling 8,000 miles in Asia. He has written: 
For 23 years Australia was ignored or by-passed in the thinking of most Asian governments. She rated merely as another American satellite blindly following what to most Asians seemed the inexplicable vagaries and miscomprehensions of American policy in Asia. 
Rohan Rivett. But he has found what we all have found. Australia is not now ignored or by-passed in Asia. Rohan Rivett reports what is known all over Asia: 
The warmth of the reaction- lo Australia - in government circles in capitals as disparate as Bangkok and New Delhi makes one blink. For so long the thoughtful Australian in Asia has been embarrassed and discomforted by blunt questions to which the Menzies ministries and their successors offered no straight answers. 
Rivett concludes about something that does count. He states: 
Ambassador  Sir James  Plimsoll's overtures to Moscow and Washington to keep the Indian Ocean free may prove abortive. But, for one of the first times in history, an Australian is speaking not just for 13 millions here but for hundreds of millions of Asians. 
Gough Whitlam has made more good impression in 16 months on the people of Asia and their leaders than all his predecessors together. He has made friends in Asia for Australia. That he should be able to complete his historic mission is the most important thing for Australia today. A general election for the Government of Australia will now be held. Let us brush aside the whims of petty men and make our decisions upon things which are important for our country. 
 It is true that there is a very strong desire now shown in applications to the Australian Industry Development Corporation for assistance to help set up factories to process primary products in country areas. One example is vegetables in the north of Tasmania and another is broiler chickens in southern Victoria, both of which industries are in difficulties. Rural communities are frequently at the mercy of large scale city corporations, many of them foreign owned, which, by their control of the bottleneck situation that exists between the producer and the consumer, both exploit the producer by giving him a lower price and the consumer by charging a higher one. I want to change that. I want the AIDC to be used to assist producer co-operatives. This can be one of the most important future roles that the AIDC can have in this country. 
We want to protect both the fanner and the housewife - the consumer - against the form of exploitation that goes on, which occurs when competition is eliminated by monopoly practices, and very often these are engaged in by multi-national corporations which are overseas owned. The honourable member asked whether the AIDC is limited in its powers at the present time to act in this area. The truth is that it is so limited. The AIDC is expected to operate on sound commercial principles. Quite a number of these cooperatives are not designed to operate on a profit making basis. They are sound, but they are not normally commercial. The AIDC is limited by the whole orientation of the previous Act under which it is established towards normal commercial practices and to paying its way. It is very often necessary to begin the assistance to co-operatives of this kind which do not pass the normal test of sound commercial operation. Also, the AIDC is limited by the funds which are available to it both here and overseas. These are limitations that we sought to remove by the 2 Bills that were passed by this House but which the Senate has failed to pass. I would expect the Australian people to be very interested in the outcome of this matter: It will be a significant matter in the forthcoming election. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report from the Industries Assistance Commission on photographic film and paper which was forwarded to me dated 21 March 1974. 
 The Australian Bureau of Statistics, through the Minister for Customs and Excise, has provided the information in the 2 tables below: 
Table 1 shows the quantities in kilograms of imported cheddar and non-cheddar cheese for each quarter of 1973 and Table 2 the quantities, values (f.o.b. port of shipment) and average f.o.b. values per kilogram for the nine major non-cheddar varieties of cheese imported over the same periods. 
The Bureau is unable to provide statistics of unit value for the landed cost of cheese because statistics of the value of imports are not compiled on a c.i.f. basis. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
15. 
and (3)  Mrs J.  Runnstrom: Senior Programmer - responsible for systems analysis and design and project management in the special projects section of the ADP Branch (A.C.T.). 

 Mrs E. Aplin and  Mrs M.  Taylor: Programmers - in charge of sub-sections handling more difficult programming projects (A.C.T.). 

 Mrs D. Russell,  Mrs A.  Rose,  Mrs T.  Howie, Miss  J.  Vine; Programmers - computer programming duties. 
Miss E. Dunlea: Parliamentary Liaison Officer ; supervision within the Department of ministerial and parliamentary matters (A.C.T.). 
Miss M. Reid: Inspector Staff Development ; research into staff development matters including graduate recruitment (A.C.T.). 

 Mrs C. O'Grady: Industrial Officer ; industrial matters (N.S.W.). 
Miss A. Berecry: Senior Invoice Examiner ; examination of documents relating to imported goods to ensure duties correctly assessed (N.S.W.). 
Miss E. Wallace: Inspector Organisation ; responsible for review of establishments methods and procedures (N.S.W.). 
Miss G. Ashwing: Senior Computer Operator, Grade III. 
Miss E. Aitken and  Mrs L.  Tate: Senior Computer Operators, Grade II. 
 The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I was commenting then on the kind of policy that had been implemented by previous governments in this Parliament, and was suggesting that if honourable members opposite constituted the Government now they would be so concerned to try to stop inflation that they would be quite willing to accept an unemployment level of 5 per cent in order to do so. I believe that if too extreme a policy with respect to inflation was adopted and applied, that could only result in a very considerable increase in unemployment and perhaps 350,000 is the kind of figure that one has to bear in mind. In any of these things we are talking about results that cannot be much better than guessed at. If the right honourable gentleman wants to suppose that one can be exact or precise in these things he is deceiving himself, and I do not know anyone who can do that better than he can. 
I am responsible for the Priorities Review Staff. I read its report. 1 read what it had to say about the policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 1 do not agree with it. In my opinion, the Minister is correct and the Priorities Review Staff incorrect. 
The present level of Australia's reserves is a little short of $3,800m. That is a very extensive direct first range reserve level. In the last 2 months there has been a trade surplus, the one in June being higher than the one in May. The June figures for imports are down a little, the figures for exports are also down a little, but both figures are almost at record levels. It seems to me that the present situation for Australia with respect to exports of visible items, both ways, is very satisfactory. The level of reserves is very satisfactory. 
The predictions - if one could call them that - that were made by the Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition speakers before the last election have proved to be wrong as far as May and June are concerned. I will not try to do the same thing as they have done, that is, to predict out into the next 12 months, but it seems quite apparent that in respect of commodities like meat the situation will not be as favourable over the next few months. 1 hope that the growers of meat will not hold back their stocks, as they apparently are doing now, from the local market. I would imagine that the price of meat in Australia today is quite sufficiently good to justify the producers putting their stock on the market. For a great many months over half the increase in the retail price index has been caused by foodstuffs - by meat. Despite the enormous increase in farm incomes - about $2,000m in the first 18 months of this Government's term of office - there has hardly been an increase in any physical quantity of the foodstuffs that have been produced from the land, and that has been one of the main causes of the inflation of the last 18 months. 
 It should not be necessary for me to say that Australia does not have an economic system designed by the Government or by the Australian Labor Party. It is a basically unstable system, very small in relation to the outside world and dominated by it. No matter which Government is in office in this country, when we have a great upsurge of demand like we had in 1971-72 or that continuing demand today there will be very great problems. Nothing that the Opposition speakers have said in this debate or in the election campaign has given one word of assistance, one word of indication of how they might deal with the situation. It is very easy of course- (Opposition members interjecting) 
Order! I ask honourable members on my left to cease interjecting. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Berowra, was heard without interruption and I ask that the  Deputy  Prime Minister &gt;be accorded the same courtesy. 
It is very easy of course to be continuously critical. One thing we can be sure of about the Opposition is that it wants to be the Government, but we cannot be sure that it knows how to deal with inflation. I would like to say a few words to try to get the context of this problem into some kind of understandable position - a position to which a former Professor of Economics in the University of Sydney, 1 would have expected, would have given a little attention to assist the House in its understanding. Inflation can be understood. It is an excess of buying power in a community over available goods and services in that community. When buying power increases by 10 per cent or 20 per cent as it has done recently there cannot possibly be a matching increase of goods and services and there must be some inflation. Inflation did not start in 1973. It began in 1971-72 when the increase in the demand for our exports went up $2, 000m in less than a year and when, under the preceding Government, there was a capital inflow of $3, 200m. There was no attempt to regulate it and no variable deposit system, which the Opposition now wants to get rid of. That money was allowed to rush into Australia. 
Bank credit in 1972 increased by $l,500m and the Budget deficit of the Government that preceded ours in September 1972 added another $300m to that excess amount of money. Inflation in Australia came from overseas and it was here by the end of 1972. Perhaps in 1973 under our Government there could have been less private spending. But I point out that government spending was kept in check in 1973 and the figures available to us now show that as a percentage of gross national expenditure government expenditure has fallen by about 5 per cent. The inflationary pressures, even in 1973, were private inflationary pressures; they were not government inflationary pressures. But in the course of that development the Government had no intention of making pensioners pay the cost of the inflation, thereby keeping down government expenditure. Would the Opposition have done that? Of course it would not and could not have done it. We increased pensions by 30 per cent over that period of time as against an increase in retail prices of 13.2 per cent. Average weekly earnings rose by 151 per cent during that time. The Opposition would have kept that down. 
It would have had the country wracked by strikes trying to keep average weekly earnings down. That is the Opposition's business. That is what it has done on every other occasion. Any industrial difficulties that we have had in the last 2 years would have been doubled had the Opposition been the Government. We had no intention of keeping average weekly earnings below the increase in retail prices. The people the Government has helped, as indicated by the indexes, are better off in Australia today than they have ever been in living memory. Not only did we deal with the situation in that way, but also when we came into office there were more than 100,000 unemployed. We reduced that figure to 68,000. But much more significant is the increase in the the workforce. Compare the increase in the workforce from December 1971 to December 1972 of 39,000 under the McMahon, Lynch, Snedden, Gorton - with these names, one never knows where to stop - Government. During our first year in office, from December 1972 to December 1973, there was an increase of 146,000 in the workforce and since then a further increase of 50,000. 
Company profits in real terms are at record levels. I do not need to detail a full list of companies but the profits of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd are up by 40 per cent, ICI of Australia Ltd by 30 per cent and of Dunlop Aust. Ltd by 19 per cent. Company profits in aggregate have risen faster than the average income of the average worker. Investment is a reflection of this kind of private prosperity. I ask honourable members to listen to some figures I shall detail. Capital expenditure in all industries increased by 2.8 per cent in the December quarter of 1973 and by 27.2 per cent in the March quarter of 1973. This latter increase can be compared with the figure of 9.7 per cent for the March quarter of 1972. 
Well it is going on right now. It has not stopped yet. I suppose the honourable member will be praying for it to stop so that there might be the kind of conditions that members opposite hope might get them elected to the government of this country. The value of non farm production has produced some very interesting figures. In the first year of the Labor Government there was a real increase of 7.3 per cent; in 1970 a real increase of 5.1 per cent; in 1971 a real increase of 4 per cent and in 1972 a real increase of 2.5 per cent. Are honourable members opposite saying that their record in these respects is better than ours? In the first year of the Labor Government non farm production in real terms increased by 7.3 per cent compared with 2.5 per cent in the last year when the Opposition was in government. It is up to the Australian people to say whether they want that kind of situation back again. 
I now mention farm production because it is in this area that the significance of inflation is apparent. In 1971-72 the money demand for farm products rose by about $2,000m but unfortunately production did not rise. In 1971-72 wheat production was worth $457m and in the following year, 1972-73, $3 57m. But after one and-a-half years of Labor government the value of wheat production will be $ 1,246m. 
We got new markets overseas and we created confidence for the wheat producers. We took away the quotas. We have sold 4 million tons of wheat to China. Do honourable members opposite not think that that had some effect on increasing the total value of wheat production in Australia from about 6 million tons in the last year in which the Opposition was in government to about 12 million tons in the first year of a Labor Government? 
Order! The debate has been wide ranging. 
I would have imagined that this is the kind of activity that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  might have risen above in his first week in Parliament. But he still makes these petty interferences in the hope that he can stop someone from this side of the House in the middle of his speech and thereby gain some advantage. If he wants to do this, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is welcome to do it so far as I am concerned. 
I think I have shown that the production record of Australia under a Labor Government, in an economy that we are not respon sible for, has been extremely good. I have suggested that despite the inflation that we have had - it has not happened only while we have been in government - the majority of people in Australia have been better off under the Whitlam Government than they were under the previous alternative government. I ask honourable members opposite to examine the unemployment figures to which they have referred. We have heard a lot about the 1,000 people who were put off by Leyland Motor Corp. of Aust. Ltd the other day. Of those people, 628 of them registered for employment. Of that 628 all but 32 obtained another job in the space of a week or so. I think the kind of debate that we have listened to today from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition spokesman on trade, does nothing but harm the conditions that are necessary in the economy for constructive ways of dealing with the problem of inflation. They have helped in no way. They proposed measures that in every respect are inflationary as distinct from anti-inflationary. There is no reality in the document that was issued the other day by the Leader of the Opposition. Members of the Opposition have contributed nothing to assist the solution of this problem that we are discussing today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable 'member's time has expired. The debate has concluded. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Tariff Board reports on - 
Blades for Safety Razors (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 28 September 1973 and 
Bright Round Steel Bars (Tariff Classification), dated 8 October 1973. 
I present also a report from the Industries Assistance Commission on Fibreglass Insect Screening (Dumping and Subsidies Act), dated 5 March 1974. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bills for extending the scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund are significant but they are not radical. They are important in the Government's priorities but they are not ideological. They are practical and they assume no change in the pattern of ownership and control of resources between the Government and private companies. Nevertheless the record of Parliament towards them is one of extraordinary obstruction. 
The amending Bills were first introduced on 30 August 1973. To give the Opposition plenty of time to study the Bills the second reading was not commenced until almost 2 months later. The Opposition moved many amendments and after a limited time for debate the Bills passed the House of Representatives on 18 October 1973. Five days later they were introduced into the Senate, and 5 days after that the Bills were referred to a Senate Select Committee for inquiry and for report not later than 12 March 1974. 
Parliament was prorogued and opened during February 1974 and the Senate Committee was reconstituted. On 12 March a message from the House of Representatives requested consideration of the Bills be resumed by the Senate. But 12 March, the date for report by the Senate Committee passed without any report by the Committee, and the rest of March and 8 days of April passed with no report from the Senate Committee. Twenty-seven days after the day the Senate Committee had been required by the Senate itself to report on the Bills, and still no report had been made, the Bills were again introduced in the House of Representatives and passed all stages. Parliament was dissolved for the election 3 days later and the Senate again failed to consider the Bills. This is a remarkable record of delay - nearly 7i months after the Bills were first passed by the House of Representatives and no decision has ever been made by the Senate. 
Now the Government introduces the Bills to the House of Representatives for the third time. I have said there is nothing radical about these Bills. They do not change, nor can they change, ownership, power or control in Australia. In the AIDC they provide an organisation which can do no more than co-ordinate large private investment projects or encourage smaller ones to influence them in the direction of Australian ownership and to assist manufacture, processing treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources or technology. The AIDC must take into account monetary policy and &lt;policies in relation to trade practices, the environment, industrial relations, the efficiency of industry and perhaps regional development. 
In all this, AIDC is to assist private enterprise, not replace it. In the national interest division of AIDC, procedures not subject to ordinary commercial or financial tests may be taken, but such action can only be taken if a Government guarantee to AIDC is authorised by a resolution of both Houses of Parliament, or if funds are directly appropriated by resolution of both Houses of Parliament. The Government has now taken into account discussions with financial institutions and business groups, and amendments made by the Opposition here and in the Senate. As a result some significant amendments have been accepted and the present Bill for the AIDC gives effect to them. 
Whilst the functions of the Corporation have been extended to provide assistance to industry concerned with the development of technology, several changes have been made which reduce the powers of the corporation. Amongst them are: Firstly, the provisions to empower the Corporation to raise moneys otherwise than by way of borrowing, and to carry on any business or activity, have been deleted from the Bill. Secondly, the Bill provides for the retention of the provision in the existing Act requiring the Corporation to make annual reviews of its shareholdings and the disposal of any shares the retention of which is not necessary for the performance of its functions. The Corporation will not be required to dispose of shares if this would reduce Australian ownership in the company concerned. The consent of the Supervisory Council will be necessary before any shares that are assets of the National Investment Fund can be disposed of. Thirdly, the Bill expressly provides that the Corporation shall not seek to acquire control of an Australian-owned company except where the Corporation considers it is necessary to do so to prevent the ownership of the company from falling into foreign hands or where the board of directors of the company consents to the Corporation acquiring control of the company. 
The new Bill also provides that the Corporation must have regard to the importance to the Australian economy of the industry concerned. The AIDC will not be expected to help out failing businesses, or be a lender of last resort, nor will it be expected to act unless the enterprise is important to Australia. 
The National Investment Fund Bill has nothing but formal changes. The NIF Bill that was before the Senate for the second time at the dissolution of Parliament provided for establishment of a National Investment Fund to help provide finance for the AIDC to carry out its expanded role. Whilst the fund and its various divisions would be managed by the corporation, the interest of subscribers to the fund would be protected by a supervisory council, the members of which were to have wide experience in the investment of moneys or the evaluation of the suitability of enterprises or projects for the investment of moneys. 
The Bill provided that funds would be raised for the NIF by offering securities and investment bonds to private and institutional investors and by operating savings and superannuation plans for the general public. The NIF is to be composed of various divisions, including divisions for the large institutional investor, divisions for the individual investor and divisions for the large foreign investor. The Bill before the House is essentially the same as the National Investment Fund Bill 1973. The substantive amendments are aimed at providing for the appointment of a chairman to the Supervisory Council, and deleting an unnecessary provision exempting the corporation, its directors, or members of the Council from liability in civil action for damages by a subscriber. 
Taken together, the AIDC and NIF Bills provide a significant, positive means to strengthen and co-ordinate Australian private enterprise in the development of Australian processing, manufacturing, transport, distribution and technology, and to increase Australian savings and investment funds for basic investment of this kind. It would only be in a Parliament lacking in enterprise and imagination, and extraordinarily influenced by ideological prejudice, that such Bills could ever be seriously questioned. I emphasise that the Bills are not radical, but the practical value of them to Australian private enterprise large and small is significant. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
 I move:  That the Bill be now  read a second time. 
This Bill, and the- Customs Bill which I will introduce shortly, make provision for measures designed to limit the opportunity for persons to profit from increases in customs and excise duties which are made from time to time, especially those normally varied in conjunction with the Budget. Honourable members will be aware of the speculative practices followed by some importers, manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers in the weeks prior to annual Budgets. This speculation takes the form of paying duty prior to the introduction of the Budget on abnormally high quantities of goods such as potable spirits, tobacco products and petrol in the expectation that duties on those commodities will be increased. If duties increase and the excess stocks on which duty was paid at a lower rate are sold at marked-up prices, excessive profits are made. Irrespective of whether it is an importer, wholesaler or retailer who actually takes the profit it is the consumer, the man in the street, who foots the bill. 
The incidence of excessive pre-Budget clearances reached an alarming level in 1971 when duties were increased on tobacco products and petrol. Following questions asked by members of my Party in Opposition, the then Minister for Customs and Excise informed members that excessive clearances on those commodities prior to Budget night that year resulted in some $5.3m duty being avoided. By 'avoided' was meant that that amount of additional duty would have been paid to the Australian Government had those excess stocks not been cleared from bond ahead of normal demand. In the 1973 Budget this Government increased revenue duties on petrol, tobacco products and potable spirits and again duty was paid on abnormally high quantities of the latter 2 commodities prior to the introduction of the Budget. On that occasion the duty avoided was estimated to reach about $7m - more than half of it represented by extraordinarily high clearances of potable spirits. 
This Bill proposes 2 measures that will enable the Australian Government severely to curtail the practices to which I have just referred. The most important of the 2 measures now proposed empowers the Minister, at a time when speculation on tariff changes might be anticipated, to specify by Gazette notice a declared period during which restriction on clearances will apply, a description of goods or classes of goods which are to be subject to such restriction and a base period which will be used to determine normal levels of clearance. It is proposed that the Minister will make a quota order setting out the quantity of specified goods which a person or company may clear for home consumption during the declared period at the rates of duty then applicable. The quota order will have regard to normal clearances by the person or company concerned and other relevant factors. Provision has been made under which a person or company may clear goods in excess of their quota. However, if the rate of duty is increased at the end of the quota period the quantity in excess of the quota order will attract duty at the increased rate. It is provided that clearance of any goods in excess of quota will be permitted only subject to lodgement of a cash deposit equal to the existing duty - in addition to the payment of the exisitng duty. This cash deposit will then be refunded on payment of whatever additional duty may have become payable. 
The Bill incorporates a provision for review of quota orders by a Review Tribunal when a quota holder appeals against the Minister's decision. The second measure contained in this Bill will permit the varying of rates of excise duty by notice published in the Australian Government Gazette when the House of Representatives is not sitting. A similar provision is already contained in the Customs Act to permit variations in rates of customs duties. These 2 measures will go a long way towards curtailing speculative pre-Budget practices and the subsequent temptation to exploit the consumer. It is only fair, however, to point out that these measures cannot completely limit profit taking at the time of duty increases as there must always be a quantity of revenue goods on which duty has already been paid in the hands of merchants and retailers. 
This Parliament would have had the power further to reduce the opportunity for postBudget profit-taking had the Government's prices and incomes referendum been successful last December. As it now stands, only the States can act to protect consumers completely I might observe that the South Australian Government already does this. I understand that the Australian Government is not alone in having to introduce measures to curtail speculative pre-Budget practices. For instance, the United Kingdom found it necessary to legislate against such practices with, I believe, very satisfactory results. The Bill also includes formal amendments to bring the principal Act in accord with the new drafting style adopted for contemporary legislation. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. This Bill is complementary to the Excise Bill which I have just introduced and contains similar provisions aimed at curtailing opportunities for persons to profit from increases in customs duties on revenue goods. The Bill also includes formal amendments to bring the principal Act in accord with the new drafting style adopted for contemporary legislation. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
In recent weeks other Ministers and I have had a series of discussions with trade union leaders, including representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and others, as well as leaders of industry and we have examined the unemployment situation very carefully. I think it would be useful for the House to know the nature of unemployment in the economy at the moment. Retrenchments up to 28 June of this year numbered 3,763 persons. Most of those - 2,092 of them - were in the textile industry, 458 in the footwear industry and 402 in the clothing industry. In no other industry in Australia has the number of retrenchments gone beyond double figures; in other industries the number is small and insignificant. 
The retrenchments at the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd happened to occur after 28 June, and I have already dealt with that matter. Approximately 1,000 people were retrenched, 648 people were registered and, up to last week, all except 32 of them had obtained alternative employment, in most cases in better jobs than they had before. Of the 3,763 workers who were retrenched up to 28 June, 2,061 registered. The rest presumably found employment for themselves. Up to now 1,274 are awaiting replacement. These figures indicate that up to 28 June, unemployment is insignificant and is carefully under control. I do not pretend to predict what will happen in regard to unemployment in the next 6 months or 12 months but I can assure the House and everybody else that it will be the Government's first concern - as distinct from the attitudes of other governments which have preceded us, in relation to whose anti-inflationary policies unemployment was a direct object - 
 1  move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No.  6  (1974) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 7 (1974) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 8 (1974) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 9 (1974) 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1973. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 6 (1974) provide for the addition of further goods to Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The changes operate from 1 January 1974. Proposals Nos. 7 and 8 (1974) formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notices on 23 April, 14 June and 28 June 1974. The changes contained in Proposals No. 7 (1974) arise, in the main, from the Government's decisions on reports by the Tariff Board on textile bags, and cigarette paper. In its report on textile bags the Board recommended that wool packs and jute bags of standard cornsack size and larger remain free of duty, bags of man-made fibres be dutiable at 30 per cent and bags of other materials as well as jute bags of under standard cornsack size be dutiable at 10 per cent. The Government considered the implications of the Board's recommendations for the continuation of protection on jute bags of under standard cornsack size in the wider context of Australia's trade with developing countries, especially India, Thailand and Bangladesh. The question of the removal of the recommended duty was raised with the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission who advised that it was unlikely that there would be serious effects on local production and employment if duty on all jute bags was reduced to free. The Government consequently decided to provide for free admission of all jute bags. The other recommendations were accepted by the Government and as the report was signed prior to the 25 per cent tariff cut in July 1973 the recommended rates were reduced by a quarter. 
In regard to cigarette paper the Government has accepted the Tariff Board's recommendation that a reduced rate of duty of 20 per cent should apply and that filigrained cigarette tissue, which is a specially patterned and embossed paper, be admitted free of duty under by-law. Action has also been taken in these Proposals to remove the expression shafting in relation to steel bars. This follows from a recommendation of the Tariff Board, in its report on Tariff Classification - Bright Round Steel Bars, that the use of the term should be discontinued. The opportunity has also been taken to align the size of bedspreads admitted at concessional rates with a standard recommended by the Metric Conversion Board. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 8 (1974) introduce complete new Schedules to the Customs Tariff to operate on and from 1 July 19 4. The new Schedules show opposite each tariff classification in the Customs Tariff the rates of duty arising from the 25 per cent tariff cut on 19 July 1973 or those resulting from subsequent decisions by the Government on recommendations of the Tariff Board or the Industries Assistance Commission. With ad valorem duties the rates resulting from the 25 per cent tariff cut have been simplified, to the extent permitted by international commitments, by rounding to the nearest whole percentage number all rates with a decimal component other than . 5; rates with a decimal component of . 5 remain unaltered. Fixed rate duties have been simplified, as necessary, by rounding the rates to the same number of decimal places as existed prior to the tariff cut. 
Proposals No. 8 (1974) also contain extensions to the list of goods granted tariff preferences when imported from developing countries. At the same time, certain products of the printing industry have been removed from the scheme of tariff preferences for developing countries to maintain protection for the local industry. These proposals also contain amendments to bring the size of imported vessels eligible for admission at nonproactive rates into line with the size of vessels eligible for subsidy when built in Australia. Proposals No 9 (1974) implement changes arising from the Government's acceptance of recommendations in the Tariff Board's reports on 'propylene oxide derivatives, and Film Processing Industry; Advertising Film (Value for Duty)', and the Industries Assistance Commission's report on 'Paper'. These changes will operate from tomorrow. In respect to propylene oxide derivatives acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations will mean that a rate of 23 per cent will apply to the principal products covered by the report, that is, polyols (which are used in the manufacture of polyurethane foam) and glycols (which arc primarily used in the production of polyester resins and surface coatings). The Board recommended that there be no change in the duties applying to the remaining goods under reference. There will however be a minor variation in rates applying to some chemically pure surface-active agents. 
Minimum rales of duty will apply from tomorrow to all goods covered by the Tariff Board's report on 'Film Processing Industry; Advertising Film (Value for Duty)' except exposed and developed plates or film (other than cinematograph film). Changes relating to these particular plates and film are being withheld at this stage pending completion of international negotiations. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on 'Paper', the duty on certain uncoated and coated printing and writing papers is being varied and a rate of 20 per cent applied. Wrapping papers covered by the Commission's report will be admitted at minimum rates. A comprehensive summary of the changes and duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. 
I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Bill 1974 as they are related matters. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The amendment of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  is concerned with preventing a revocation or variation of the quota order from causing increased financial liability to any person acting in good faith with respect to declared goods. This matter has been carefully considered during the course of the day. The honourable member for Fisher, as he said, has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with departmental officers who drafted the Bill. I thoroughly agree with the honourable member's point that a person subject to a quota order should not, by virtue of any revocation or variation of that order, incur any increased financial liability in respect of goods already cleared by him. The amendment is designed to provide a protection in relation to goods already cleared. 
Looking first at the question of revocation of a person's quota order I point cut that this can only be beneficial to a person. It removes all limits on the quantity of goods of the kind to which the revoked order relates that can be cleared by him. Looking at the question of the variation of a quota order, I point out to the honourable member that in terms of sub-sections (4) and (5) of section 59 of the Act - the section to which he refers - the Minister in varying an order has only 2 options open to him. Firstly, where the order is varied to enlarge the quota initially issued, the new order takes effect on and from the date on which the original order came into force. Secondly, where the Minister varies the order so that a lesser quota is applicable the new order operates on and from the date on which the variation was made. Accordingly, a person who is issued with a quota order and clears goods under that quota cannot suffer any financial disadvantage in respect of goods already cleared in the event that the Minister subsequently varies the original order. What that means is that once the original quota has been issued the person to whom it is issued can clear goods up to the limit of that quota order without any fear of any retrospective downward variation of his quota limit. Once the original quota has been issued there can be no retrospective downward variation. Therefore, I can assure the honourable member for Fisher that the points he has raised are adequately covered in the provisions of the Bill as they stand now. He need not fear any injustice in increased financial liability to any person as a result of a revocation or variation of a quota order. This being the case, I therefore cannot accept the amendment. I assure the honourable member that adequate protection is provided in the Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I appreciate the care with which the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has handled this matter. I think the concern he has shown is justifiable.  His  amendment is a genuine attempt to clarify a matter about which he was in doubt. I am assured and I give the assurance to the Committee and to the honourable member that there is no need for concern. Adequate protection is contained in the Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 (1974) 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 10 (1974) 
Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 and Customs Tariff Proposals No. 10, which I have just tabled, introduce the tariff changes foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the statement he made earlier this evening. The proposals increase the duties of customs and excise on manufactured tobacco products and spirits and will operate on and after 8 o'clock this evening. The proposals increase the rate of duty on cigarettes by the equivalent of 4c a packet of twenty. The increase on spirits manufactured in Australia is the equivalent of 3c a nip or 78c a bottle. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
The answer to the first and second questions is yes. If the right honourable gentleman had listened to the Treasurer last night he would have heard him say, too, that the measures were not antiinflationary. I would have thought that by now the right honourable gentleman and his laughing mates would know what is inflationary and what is not. It was pointed out quite clearly last night that what was being put to the House was a proposal to improve the position of those who had suffered most from inflation - those whose pensions and other social service benefits were to be increased by $5; that that money had to come from somewhere and that it would come essentially from the luxury areas of spirits and tobacco. I think that an overwhelming proportion of the Australian people would agree with that. This is a practical measure to achieve a necessary obligation and undertaking of this Government. 
For a long time now I have listened to the right honourable gentleman talking about inflation. The only thing I have heard or read from him is that we should reduce taxation by $600m to try to induce from wage earners and other people an undertaking not to increase their wages and salaries. I think that that is a pretty pious hope. Can inflationary effects be overcome by reducing taxation by $600m? That puts $600m more into the hands of the community to spend on a limited quantity of goods and services. The first impact of that would be clearly inflationary and it is based only on a hope that this would in some way induce restraint. I favour restraint. In that respect I have yet to hear the attitude of the right honourable gentleman in relation to, say, parliamentary salaries. What I said on radio this morning was the considered position that I have taken. It was perfectly consistent with statements made by the Treasurer. There has been no inconsistency at all, and I think that the right honourable gentleman should have known that. 
in reply - The debate yesterday and today has been a very constructive one. I cannot avoid saying that it is in contrast with the one which took place last year when the amending Bills were first introduced into the House. I appreciate the attitude of the Opposition to the legislation on this occasion, especially the detailed speeches made by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  in relation to the foreshadowed amendments. 
One honourable member talked of concessions being made by the Government and not by the Opposition. I think the honourable member for Berowra put it that way. Concessions have been made both by the Government and by the Opposition. Some of the amendments foreshadowed by the Opposition, as well as the amendments proposed by the Government, clarify the functions and the purposes of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and are thoroughly acceptable to the Government for that reason. The amendments that will be moved by the Opposition are acceptable to the Government. They are useful because they clarify the functions and the purposes. They separate more clearly what one might call the General Division of the AIDC and the National Interest Division of the AIDC. 
As the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  both pointed out, the National Interest Division is one for which the funds obtainable, however they are obtained, can be obtained only by resolution passed by both Houses of Parliament. The difference between the General Division and the National Interest Division of the AIDC ought to clear the minds of the Opposition. These amendments, taken in conjunction with the other amendments which the Opposition is proposing, make the position clear. The function of the AIDC in relation to the General Division of the AIDC is that of a co-ordinator. It works with private organisations to strengthen the Australian ownership in those operations and to widen the area of those operations. Both of those matters, I think, are thoroughly justifiable developments. Where the AIDC acts on its own, it is in respect of the National Interest Division that it will be necessary for funds to be obtained as a result of a vote in both Houses of Parliament. Those 2 divisions, therefore, are made clear by the foreshadowed amendments, and I am quite happy to have them made clear. 
The Leader of the Country Party asked about the relationship between borrowings by the AIDC and the National Investment Fund and the variable deposit requirement, and whether borrowings by these organisations can come in from overseas without being subject to the variable deposit requirement. The right honourable member asked whether it will be varied in their case. The  answer is that the variable deposit requirement on overseas borrowings does not apply to overseas borrowings either by the Government itself or by Governmental authorities whose borrowings are subject to supervision by the Australian Loan Council. Borrowings by the AIDC and by the NIF are subject to supervision by the Australian Loan Council. So, there is no question of the variable deposit requirement being applied to them. 
I think it was the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who asked: Is compulsion in taking people's savings involved? The answer is no. He will know that these Bills do not impose compulsion on individuals or organisations. In both respects these organisations are competitive. They must compete for funds with other organisations and in every case they will be placed in similar positions to other competing organisations. There is no compulsion at all, present or implied, in either Bill. There are matters such as the 20- 30-40 rule, as it is now called. That rule is still the subject of negotiation and discussion between life offices, superannuation funds and other organisations and the Government. I did say that I would much prefer the arrangement to be one in which no change at all in this rule is made and in which there is nothing that can be called compulsion. But the negotiations are still under way and I have hopes that satisfactory arrangements will be arrived at in the course of these discussions. 
I think the position that the Opposition took when the Bills were first brought to Parliament last year was: 'We are going to throw them out, lock, stock and barrel, because they could be followed up by subsequent action by the Government. It could nationalise the world.' Of course the Government could nationalise the world, as it were, if we could win the support of the people and the Parliament for that course. But simply to say that, as this is a Bill that can be added to by subsequent powers obtained through the Parliament, the Opposition will somehow form its attitude to a Bill because of that possibility is illogical. I said so last year. I am glad that the Opposition now seems to be totally uninfluenced by that view. 
With the amendments, yes. There is nothing more I wish to say at this stage in closing the debate. The amendments proposed by the Opposition will be accepted. In the Committee stage of the Bill I will move 3 amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
Sections 8 and 9 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections substituted: "8. (1) In the performance of its functions the Corporation shall have regard to the current monetary policy of the Australian Government and to the policies of the Australian Government in relation to trade practices, the environment, industrial relations and the efficiency of industry. " (2) The Corporation shall act in accordance with sound business principles in the performance of its functions and - 
shall not provide finance to a particular company unless the Board considers that the company will operate in an efficient manner and in accordance with sound financial principles; and 
shall not engage or participate in a particular enterprise or project unless the Board considers that the enterprise or project will be carried out in an efficient manner and in accordance with sound financial principles. " (3) The Corporation shall, in deciding whether to provide finance to a particular company or to engage or  particpate  in a particular enterprise or project, have regard to - 
the importance of the industry concerned to the Australian economy; and 
the extent to which the provision of that finance, or the engaging or participation  by  the Corporation in that enterprise or project, would contribute to the effective performance of the functions of the Corporation. " (4) Subject to the  National Investment Fund Act  1974, the Corporation shall, at least once in each year, review its holdings of shares in companies other than shares acquired as a result of the investment of the capital of the Corporation under subsection (2) of section 26 and, where - 
the Corporation holds a substantial number of shares in a company; and 
the Board is satisfied, as to any of those shares, that retention of the shares is not necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Corporation, the Corporation shall endeavour to dispose of those shares, but nothing in this sub-section requires the Corporation to dispose of shares at a loss. " (5) The Corporation shall not, in the performance of its functions, seek to acquire, or to acquire a controlling interest in, a company in which Australian residents have a controlling interest except where - 
the acquisition is considered by the Board to be necessary to prevent foreign corporations or foreign residents from acquiring a controlling interest in the company; or 
the acquisition takes place with the consent of the board of directors of the company. "8a. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, by notice in writing to the Corporation, inform the Corporation of the policy of the Australian Government in relation to the establishment, development and advancement of an industry referred to in the notice or in relation to the participation by Australian residents in such an industry or in an activity that is connected with or incidental to such an industry. "(2) Where- 
the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to an enterprise or project, or the engaging or participation by the Corporation in an enterprise or project, would be within the functions of the Corporation; 
the Board decides for any reason not to provide finance for, or not to engage or participate in, the enterprise or project; and 
it is in accordance with the policy of the Australian Government as notified to the Corporation under sub-section (1) that - 
the enterprise or project should be carried out; and 
the Corporation should provide finance in relation to, or engage or participate in, the enterprise or project, the Corporation shall furnish to the Minister a report in writing in relation to the enterprise or project. " (3) The Corporation shall not furnish a report under sub-section (2) in relation to the provision of finance by the Corporation to a company in relation to an enterprise or project, or the engaging or participation by the Corporation in an enterprise or project in association with a company, except with the consent of that company. " (4) If the Minister considers that - 
the carrying out of an enterprise or project in connexion with an industry or activity referred to in sub-section (1) of section 6; and 
the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to the enterprise or project or the engaging or participation of the Corporation in the enterprise or project, would be in accordance with the policy of the Australian Government in relation to the establishment, development or advancement of the industry or in relation to the participation by Australian residents in the industry or activity, he may direct the Corporation to furnish to him a report in writing in relation to the enterprise or project. " (5) If the Minister has received a report in pursuance of sub-section (2) or sub-section (4) in relation to an enterprise or project, the Minister may authorize the Corporation to conduct such inquiries, investigations, studies or negotiations in connexion with the enterprise or project as are necessary to determine whether, and by what means, the Australian Government could enable the Corporation to provide finance for, or to engage or participate in, the enterprise or project. " (6) Where, after having received a report in pursuance of sub-section (2) or sub-section (4) in relation to an enterprise or project, the Minister is of the opinion that it is in the national interest that the Australian Government should - 
facilitate the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to the enterprise or project; or 
assist the Corporation to engage or participate in the enterprise or project, the Minister may - 
with the concurrence of the Treasurer, give such guarantees as will enable the Corporation to provide finance for, or engage or participate in, the enterprise or project; 
out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose, make payments to the Corporation (whether by way of loan or otherwise) for use by the Corporation in providing finance for, or engaging or participating in, the enterprise or project on such terms and conditions as the Minister and the Treasurer determine; and 
if the enterprise or project is concerned with the exploration, development or use of minerals and Australia has borrowed moneys for the purpose of the enterprise or project - out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose, make payments to the Corporation (whether by way of loan or otherwise), being payments not exceeding in the aggregate the total of the amounts of moneys so borrowed, for use by the Corporation in providing finance for, or engaging or participating in, the enterprise or project on such terms and conditions as the Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Minerals and Energy determine. " (7) The Minister shall not give a guarantee under sub-section (6) unless each House of the Parliament has passed a resolution approving the giving of the guarantee. " (8) Where any moneys are lent to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of subsection (6) in relation to an enterprise or project - 
the Corporation shall apply those moneys for the purpose for which they were lent to the Corporation; 
those moneys shall not be taken into account for the purposes of sub-section (3) of section 7; and 
the Corporation shall not repay those moneys, or pay interest on those moneys, out of moneys of the Corporation other than moneys, or the proceeds of the sale of assets, acquired by (he Corporation as a result of the application of the first-mentioned moneys in providing finance in relation to, or engaging or participating in, the enterprise or project. " (9) Where an moneys are paid (otherwise than by way of loan) to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (d*) or (e) of sub-section (6) in relation to an enterprise or project, the Corporation shall apply those moneys for the purpose for which they were paid to the Corporation. " (10) The Corporation shall keep separate accounts and records in its books of account in respect of operations of the Corporation involving the application of moneys paid to the Corporation under this section and shall include in its annual report to the Minister a separate report on any such operations carried on during the year to which the report relates and shall prepare and furnish to the Minister financial statements in respect of those operations in such form as the Treasurer approves. " (11) The accounts and records of financial transactions relating to moneys paid to the Corporation under this section, and records relating to assets acquired out of those moneys, shall be audited by the Auditor-General, and section 29 does not apply in relation to those accounts and records. " (12) Sub-sections (3) to (5), inclusive, of section 37 apply in relation to financial statements referred to in sub-section (10) of this section in like manner as those sub-sections apply in relation to financial statements referred to in sub-section (1) of section 37 except that the report referred to in sub-section (3) of section 37 as that sub-section applies in relation to the first-mentioned financial statements shall be made by the Auditor-General and' shall be furnished by him to the Minister. " (13) Where moneys are paid to the Corporation in pursuance of paragraph (d) or (e) of sub-section (6), the Treasurer is liable to reimburse the Corporation for any expenses (including expenses of management or administration), charges, obligations or liabilities incurred or undertaken by the Corporation in applying those moneys to the extent, if any, to which the Corporation is not able to pay or discharge those expenses, charges, obligations or liabilities out of those moneys or out of income or profits derived by the Corporation from the application of those moneys. " (14) For the purpose of advising the Minister whether it is in the national interest that the Australian Government should - 
facilitate the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to an enterprise or project; or 
assist the Corporation to engage or participate in an enterprise or project, there is hereby established a National Interest Committee, which shall consist of such persons as the Minister appoints including a person appointed' on the nomination of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. '(15) The regulations may prescribe all matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for or in connexion with the performance of the functions of the National Interest Committee, including the tenure of office of members of the Committee, the holding of meetings of the Committee, and, subject to the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973, the payment of fees and allowances, if any, to members of the Committee. '9. Except as otherwise provided by this Act, the Corporation is not subject to direction by or on behalf of the Australian Government.'. 
I move: 
In sub-section (1) of proposed section 8, after 'industrial relations', insert ', urban and regional development'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to add to the matters to be taken into account by the Corporation which are set out in the Bill. Under the Bill the matters to be taken into account by the Corporation are the current monetary policy of the Australian Government and the policies of the Australian Government in relation to trade practices, the environment, industrial relations and the efficiency of industry. We seek to add to those matters the policies of the Government in relation to urban and regional development. I think that that is an understandable and acceptable proposition. 
The Government accepts the amendment. As has been pointed out it clearly separates the function of the Corporation in what  I  have been referring to as the general division from the national interest division.  In  the general division, in which its function will be exclusively that of a co-ordinator working with other organisations and individuals, the amendment requires it so to do. To engage in an enterprise or project without the participation of another person or persons is beyond its powers except on a temporary basis or under sub-section (6) of proposed section 8A, which is the national interest area, in which it may operate on its own. But that can be only with funds obtained by a resolution of both Houses.  I  think that the Opposition now has the safeguards it wants. This accords with what  I  had intended the Bill to mean in the first place.  I  am quite happy to have the matter clarified by the acceptance of the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I  move: 
Under sub-section (5) of proposed new section 8, omit paragraph (a), substitute the following paragraph: 
the acquisition is necessary to prevent foreign persons from acquiring a controlling interest in the company; or 
Proposed new section 8 (5) would then read: 
The Corporation shall not, in the performance of its functions, seek to acquire, or to acquire a controlling interest in, a company in which Australian residents have a controlling interest except where - 
This is where the amendment comes in - 
the acquisition is necessary to prevent foreign persons from acquiring a controlling interest in the company; or . . . 
I move: 
At the end of proposed section 8, add the following sub-sections: 
A reference in paragraph (5) (a) to foreign persons acquiring a controlling interest in a company is a reference to foreign persons becoming the owners of a substantial number of voting shares in the company within the meaning of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-73. 
In this section, " foreign person " has the same meaning as in the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-73. 
The effect of this will be to define 'controlling interest' in the same terms as it is defined in the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-73, which does so by saying that where a person - that includes a company or organisation - holds 15 per cent of the shares or where a number of persons hold 40 per cent of the shares it is a controlling interest. This is the same as in the legislation to which I have just referred. It seems to be a satisfactory definition of 'controlling interest'. 
The Government is quite prepared to accept this amendment. The appointment of members of the National Interest Committee will no doubt be a part-time appointment. I am quite happy to have that made subject to the provision that the Governor-General appoints the members. This, as distinct from the provision in the Bill, means that the matter will have to be placed before Parliament and that Parliament will have rights in respect to the appointment. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said that the National Interest Committee was a bit shadowy. 
I do not know that it is right. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  has just said, if the section is studied one finds that the addition that is being made to the Bill is most substantial. The National Interest Division assumes that certain projects will be examined by the Australian Industries Development Corporation Board and for some reason or reasons the AIDC Board may not wish to proceed with them. Then there is set out in relation to (he Division a very detailed procedure of exchange of letters and reports between the Minister and the AIDC Board. If the Minister, on the advice of the National Interest Committee, decides to proceed he may do so by a certain procedure that is set down in the section. As I have said, the final control is that the funds for this purpose, whether by appropriation or from the AIDC, can be obtained only by a resolution of both Houses. 
The kinds of projects that we have in mind would be first of all, as the Leader of the Country Party said, projects which are perhaps so big, so comprehensive or so unusual that the AIDC would not feel justified in accepting the responsibility itself. They would need to operate under the National Interest Division and they would need to be backed by the authority of the whole Parliament. That is quite clear. That is one possibility. But I remind the Committee that the AIDC has to apply normal commercial or business principles. In my speech when I introduced these Bills I said that the AIDC was expected to pay its way. It would not be expected to help out people who were in difficulties, to be a lender of last resource. It would not be an organisation which would easily be envisaged as losing money. It is to apply the ordinary, hard commercial principles. 
I emphasise that in addition to the big projects like the ones mentioned by the Leader of the Country Party there will be different projects. There will be projects which may be of a co-operative nature and projects in country areas - I particularly emphasise, that - where if ordinary commercial principles applied the AIDC Board might say: 'This is not a project that we ought to go into'. I know that decisions like that have already been made because of the application of those principles. In cases like that we may very well say: 'Even though this does not pass the test on commercial grounds it may pass the test on other grounds and if the Parliament agrees we want to back that project.' So there may be relatively small projects. There may be projects that are different as well as the larger ones that the AIDC may not want to undertake without the authority of Parliament. 
As to the appointment of members of the National Interest Committee, I would not be making recommendations that are all one way. I would want to acquire people of wide experience but I would not expect the Parliament to object to an appointment because some person happened to have the same philosophy or attitude to life that I have. 
I know the attitude of the people on the Australian Wool Corporation and I know why they were appointed. I know why they were appointed so soon before the 1972 election. I am sure that an Opposition which, as a government, would appoint to the Wool Corporation people with the philosophy they had, would not object to my appointing one or two members to the National Interest Committee who might have a philosophy similar to mine. 
Not you. I would be concerned, as I have been, to see that the AIDC Board is not single minded, that it has a comprehensive position and that it is made up of people with different viewpoints. I have renewed the appointments of all the people appointed by previous governments who could continue to serve on the AIDC Board. I have made 2 new appointments, one of whom is a long term member of the Labor Party. The other appointment involved a person who has a very different political association. I am pointing out that the National Interest Committee does have a need for a philosophy - not just one, but several. I hope that I can clarify even further the kind of guidelines and the kind of purposes that the National Interest Division will have. That is all I propose to say at this stage. I am quite happy to accept the amendment that has been moved. 
 I do not want to get involved at this stage in an argument with the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  We have done very well with these 2 Bills up until now. But I would ask him to leave the matter to be judged when I make the recommendations and then to come to his conclusions about whether the Committee would be stacked or not. We had a discussion in this place the other day about the Australian Wool Corporation. The Leader of the Country Party compares that in some way with the Reserve Bank Board. The Wool Corporation is so designed that producers' organisations appoint members to it. You could even design the Reserve Bank Board that way if you wanted to so that the trade union movement could appoint members to it. It would be just as relevant because the Wool Corporation is just as important to Australia as the Reserve Bank Board, but that has never been done and so far in this Parliament we have never accepted the principle that there are important organisations like the Wool Corporation where, as of right trade unions could appoint the directors. It would be the same thing. But this is the normal thing in an organisation like the Wool Corporation because this is the way in which the farmers and their organisations over the years have become involved in positions of power. Very often these people come from the Country Party. 
Reference was made to the appointment of Peter Westerway and an accusation was made that he had been appointed for his political services to the Labor Party. 
I think the honourable member is likely to be kicked downstairs rather than upstairs in contrast to Peter Westerway. Westerway's appointment was an appointment of a very competent man. He has proved himself competent in quite a number of fields. I believe that organisations like the Industries Assistance Commission should have on them somebody who has a political attitude to life. The idea that people are altogether impartial and objective, that there are such people in the community that you can get hold of and appoint to the IAC is very deceptive. The IAC has on it people with a very definite ideology. That ideology is very clear in everything the IAC does. It is not a bad idea to have on it somebody with a different ideology. To my mind one of the qualifications that Peter Westerway has is that he has a different ideology - I think he has, anyway. 
I think the realism of the situation is that you do not have on these important jobs people who are completely impartial and objective. When you are dealing with economic and social matters of vast significance, as do the people on the Commonwealth Bank Board, the Wool Corporation and the IAC, it is not possible to be impartial and objective. It is very often the case, as Lord Keynes said way back in 1931, I think, that some ideological assumptions are ideas that were expounded many years ago, often by some quite irrational person or in some ideology, and are now expounded as though they are today's truth. I refute altogether this suggestion that there are some people who have a special claim to impartiality and objectivity and that there are other people who are subject only to ideological or political bias. Most of those who claim objectivity have an ideological bias which is only too obvious to anyone who understands their attitude of mind. 
Yes. When I come to the stage of making recommendations for this National Interest Committee, I think I will also satisfy the Opposition as to their quality. 
 The Government is prepared to accept this amendment, which limits to $500m the amount of money that can be raised by the National Investment Fund in Australia. As the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said, it does not limit the amount that can be raised outside Australia but only that which can be raised inside Australia. As he pointed out also, should the Government require from time to time to increase that $500m it is merely a matter of introducing a Bill to do so, as we do in the case of the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation. What he said about overseas borrowing is correct, and I am sure that nobody in the House wants to limit the capacity of the 
National Investment Fund to borrow overseas and bring money into Australia so that we get the funds without the overseas control. I hope that we can get large quantities of money this way. 
During the course of the debate several honourable members opposite said that they did not think that the National Investment Fund would actually increase the amount of savings in Australia. They saw the situation as one in which the National Investment Fund would be competing with other organisations within Australia for savings. That might be the case. 
Yes. But I believe there is a distinct possibility that the National Investment Fund can increase the rate of savings. I have had hundreds of inquiries from people who would not normally invest in anything. They want to invest in the National Investment Fund because they accept the view that it is an important national fund for important national purposes. There are such things as concern and support for that kind of proposal in the community. Not every body is cynical these days, although I am astonished at the number who are. I think there are a large number of people who Wil respond to this as they did during wartime and invest in national funds for national projects. I have the distinct hope that quite a large number of people who do not usually invest in anything will invest in the National Investment Fund. 
I have only one other thing to say. I have already expressed my approval of the way in which the Leader of the Country Party and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  have received these 2 Bills, adding as they do quite significantly to the structure of the Australian Industries Development Corporation. I am very pleased to have the opportunity of being recorded in history as helping in the community. Not everybody is cynical in the development of something that  Sir John  McEwan began. I have often expressed in this House my acknowledgment of his contribution and I do so again now. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The  answer  to the right  honourable  member's  question  is as follows: 
Yes. 
(2)- 
The members of the Intergovernmental Council of Copper Exporting Countries (CIPEC) are Chile, Peru, Zaire and Zambia. 
The objectives of CIPEC are: 
to co-ordinate measures designed to foster, through the expansion of the industry, dynamic and continuous growth of real earnings from copper exports, and to ensure a real forecast of such earnings; 
to promote the harmonisation of the decisions and policies of the Member Countries on problems relating to the production and the marketing of copper; 
to obtain for the Member Countries better and more complete information and appropriate advice on the production and marketing of copper; 
in general, to increase resources for the economic and social development of producer countries bearing in mind the interest of consumers; 
to promote the solidarity of the Member Countries as concerns the problems faced by these countries in the copper industry; 
to promote the co-ordination of their policies with other organisations of the same type as CIPEC. 
Australia accepted an invitation to send an observed delegation to the Fifth Ministerial Meeting of CIPEC at Lusaka, Zambia, from 24-26 June 1974. Observers from 16 other countries including a number of copper importing countries, also attended the meeting. 
The Government has not considered this question. 
United States Establishments in Australia  (Question No.  21) 
I have not seen any of the reports mentioned by the honourable member which show that the Australian Bureau of Statistics had taken into account only the price of Australian clothing in arriving at the consumer price index figures for the last quarter. On the face of it, it would seem to me that that is unlikely because it would be fairly difficult, I think, to distinguish one from the other. The surprising thing, however, about the price index number released last week is the high percentage increase in clothing and apparel. The increase is more than 7 per cent, I think, the highest component. That is very surprising. If it had not been for that the index would have been one-half of 1 per cent or so lower, I think, and that would have been significant. 
It may well be, or it should be, that the price of imported clothing should be considerably less than that of comparable Australian manufactured clothing because the landed price is less than the Australian factory price, sometimes one-third, onequarter or one-fifth less. Trade union officials havebrought to my attention the fact that this is so in relation to a large number of items of clothing and apparel. They have also supplied evidence that the actual retail price of the imported commodity is often no less than the retail price of the Australian commodity, which may not be so in all cases but is so in some cases. I will have the matter investigated to see whether what the honourable member suggests did happen in the preparation of the consumer price index figures for the June quarter. If it is found to have happened we will see to it that a proper sampling of both imported clothing and Australian produced clothing is taken into account in the future. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report from the Industries Assistance Commission on building materials, by-law dated 27 March 1974. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
 Yes. Some newspapers report that I had said that banks would crash or something to that effect.I made no reference whatever to banks. What I said was the result of a question asked by some reporter who referred to private businesses financing housing and hire purchase. I said that in my opinion some of these companies that were at the fringe would be likely to be in difficulties. I did not use the word 'crash'. The question in no way referred to banks, nor did the answer. The newspaper reports that refer to banks are quite inaccurate. What was reported was never said. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A facility, known as the Market Assistance Section, has been established within the Department of Overseas Trade. 
The Market Assistance Section has an establishment of eight officers in Canberra and a Trade Commissioner position, together with a clerical officer, in Sydney and in Melbourne. 
The facilities are available to developing countries and territories and to countries with centrally planned economies. 
Inquiries have been received from most of the countries in the South East Asian area and also from the European, African, South American and Pacific regions. The specific countries are: Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Chile, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Fiji, Ghana, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Republic of Korea, Laos, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, Philippines, Papua New Guinea, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, Trinidad, Uruguay, Venezuela, Republic of Vietnam, Yugoslavia. 
Inquirers have sought a wide range of information, including details of the Australian market for specific products, the names of suitable importers, customs and quarantine requirements, and the advantages to be obtained from Australia's system of tariff preferences for developing countries. 
I would like to give a considered answer to that question. Representations have been received from those church bodies and the Government takes them very seriously. The Government's policies in relation to racism and colonialism and its abhorrence of the practices and policies of a number of southern African countries are well known and well justified. When the United Nations international economic sanctions are in existence the Australian Government has acted in accordance with them. There is an embargo, for example, on Australia's economic relations with Rhodesia. 
 The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 2 x 45 feet aluminium patrol launches - Series 9210 from De Havilland Marine, Bankstown, Sydney, New South Wales. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These questions relate to matters of detail in the domestic affairs of the Corporation, upon which the AIDC is neither required nor expected to report. The AIDC Act contains normal provisions for conducting meetings of the Board including provisions dealing with the attendance of Directors which it certainly has not been necessary to invoke. 
However, while the Corporation is not required to provide this kind of information, it is my understanding that the Board meets at least once a month and it would be most unusual to have anything but a full attendance at its regular meetings. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on the financial performance of the Australian Industry Development Corporation is published in the Corporation's Annual Reports which have been tabled in the House and are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The reports contain full financial statements and extensive and detailed analyses of the Corporation's activities in assisting and providing financial resources for Australian companies. This information is presented in a degree of detail which is unusual amongst development financing and investment banking institutions. 
I do not want to cover the ground adequately covered by the Prime Minister a few minutes ago when he answered a similar question. But it is a fact that for a long time now the Australian textile industry has been examined by the Tariff Board, which has been supported by Governments from both sides of politics in its mandate to examine Australian industry and to determine where it is efficient and economic. The Tariff Board has examined the textile industry on many occasions and has in fact found that it was very highly protected. Sometimes the effective rates were much higher than those just mentioned by the honourable member in his question. It is true that generally the textile industries in other countries are not as highly protected but in some countries they are. I think members of the House and the public have to take into acount all aspects of this question. It is not desirable from the community point of view to have employment in industries that are not efficient. Certain parts of the textile industry have not been efficient. Its capital investment is often too small and it has not kept up to date. It has not been able to afford to keep up to date and consequently in many of those places the productivity of the industry is low and the wages are low. I do not think it is a responsibility of a government from this side of politics to help maintain people in employment where the wages are low, where the working conditions are bad and where the hours are often very long, and that is often the consequence of maintaining these old and conservative industries. 
I want to make the point that the whole of the textile industry is not like that. There are some very efficient parts of it. If honourable members examine the situation carefully they will find that the efficient parts of the industry are growing quite rapidly and that the inefficient parts are not growing. As the Prime Minister pointed out there, has been a decline in employment in the textile industry for a long time. That is a long term economic process that neither tariffs nor anything else can prevent or discourage. I think another thing has to be pointed out. In the year 1972-73 there was a considerable upsurge in demand for everything in Australia. I have often pointed out where this originated. In responding to that demand a good many industries - like some of the decentralised ones in Victoria - grew very rapidly. Most of the trouble is occurring in Victoria and in Launceston. In those places employment increased considerably and even- 
Yes, even in the case of Wangaratta. I went through the Wangaratta Woollen Mills Ltd in recent weeks and I discovered quite a number of people who had not been employed there for very long and who had come from other parts of Victoria in response to advertisements for employees of different kinds. Consequently the employment level rose considerably. What has happened in a number of cases is that employment has come back to a more normal level and some of the unemployment that has occurred is part of that process. I think the need here is not to stick to rigorous conservatism and have a doctrine that every industry shall remain and that every person shall remain employed where he was last month or last year, whatever the conditions may be. What we need, and what a series of governments before this one was most deficient in, is a program to assist effectively people to be transferred to more productive employment. For 23 years nothing positive was ever done in this Parliament in that direction. Consquently, when this Government came to office after many years of deficiencies it has not been easy to establish in a short period of time the necessary machinery for the purpose. 
I refer, as the Prime Minister did, to the Structural Adjustment Board - that kind of legislation should have been before this Parliament 20 years ago - and the retraining scheme which is under the supervision of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. That sort of legislation should have been before this Parliament 20 years ago. If this legislation had been introduced we would now have the institutions and the trained people to do these jobs. But honourable members opposite have sat conservatively in response to every lobbying interest that has ever been able to come to this Parliament. Honourable members opposite have responded conservatively to them. A totally different attitude is needed and I think that has been revealed to the textile industry. I think that the most efficient and best parts of the textile industry in this country will grow  substantially, but I do not have a good view of the future for those in the industry who have not been able to keep up to date and who do not warrant a place in a modern economy. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The terms of reference of the Priorities Review Staff were set out in a statement by the then Special Minister of State,  Senator Willesee,  on 19 August 1973 (Australian Government Digest Volume 1 Number 3, page 1231). 
Consistent with these terms of reference the Staff engages in a continuous study of a wide range of topics and furnishes briefing and advice in a variety of forms ranging from oral briefing for individual Ministers to formal reports to the Government. 
In addition to its interim report ('Goals and Strategies') in December, 1973, the Staff has been specifically commissioned by the Government to provide -reports on child care and the allocation of FM and A'M broadcasting licences. A report entitled 'Early Childhood services' was tabled by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister on 30 July 1974. To date, no other reports have been received by the Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) By reason of sub-paragraph (d) of the Treasurer's answer to Question No. 147 (see Hansard of 25 July, 1974), overseas borrowings by the Australian Industry Development Corporation are not subject to the variable deposit requirement. 
I begin my contribution to this very important debate on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill by acknowledging the work of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and of  Mr T.  M. Fitzgerald who prepared a report on the contribution of the mineral industry to Australian welfare. It is true, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr 
Anthony) has just said, that the Minister has become a living legend in the history of the Australian mining industry because he represents the turning point in the history of this nation against the sell-out of Australian resources, with which I will deal in a few minutes, to the statement of a full and effective responsibility of the Australian Parliament and the Australian people in relation to that mining industry. 
The extent of the sell-out of Australian resources to foreign companies has become vividly known. As it has become vividly known, I point out that no one has played a more significant part in making it vividly known than has the Minister himself. As it has become vividly known it has become resisted. Rejection of the sell-out of Australia is now almost universal. All sections of the community, all parties, except the Opposition parties in this Parliament, reject the sell-out of Australia, and still the Leader of the Australian Country Party appears here as the representative of the international corporations. No one has done more, as I say, than the Minister has to awaken the people to their responsibilities, to their possibilities. No one has done more than  Mr Fitzgerald  to discover the facts and prove the case.  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out that the first economic task of any government is to raise the standards and the welfare of the people, and particularly those sections of the people who have been most disadvantaged. There are great and growing needs of the people for better housing, health, education and for the whole quality of life in which the modern city has failed so badly. 
These needs are so great and are growing at such a rate that they cannot be met from the proceeds of taxation on individuals, or from charges made in the public sector, or from charges made for health or education or housing. Indeed, many of the needs for a better quality of life cannot be charged for at all, and resistance to the further use of these methods- the paying for welfare and the wellbeing of the people- as  Mr Fitzgerald  points out, have become as strong as the public desire for social improvement. Resistance to paying for social improvement has become as strong as the public desire for social improvement, and this is a dilemma that it is the responsibility of this nation to solve. Hence the desire of people for social improvement is stifled by the ability of the modern government and the modern economy to supply it. Modern public finance is no better to solve the problem of social improvement than is the market. 
For Australia an exceptional opportunity for improving standards of welfare and wellbeing of our people did open out in the 1960s with this great unsurge of mineral discoveries.  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out in a recent summary of his report. 
The intrinsic quality of the newly discovered deposits of such minerals as iron ore, coal and bauxite gave prospect of exceptionally high income return in relation to the costs of the usual factors of production, mainly labour and capital. The superior profit would come from the contribution made by the resources itself to the value of the product, and since the resource belonged to the people, they would be entitled to a proper share of the benefits. After the foreign-owned mineral enterprises, in particular, had fully recouped their original investments, assisted in this by the generous income tax concessions available, there would be ground for negotiations to obtain increasing Australian ownership and benefits from the further extensions of operating leases. The situation called for an ordinary business approach in dealings with business enterprises. Mining companies, like other commercial enterprises, seek as a matter of course to maximise their profits. This is natural and inevitable and government authorities have to treat with the companies in the same terms. To do so the State and national authorities had to find a common basis in pursuing objectives to their mutual advantage. The nature of the foundations laid in the formative years of the mineral revival would have effects on Australian welfare lasting for decades or (as it turned out) for generations. 
I agree with  Mr Fitzgerald  that what has been done up to now will have effects lasting for decades and, as it has turned out, for generations. Common sense supports that conclusion. What has been done under the supervision of preceding governments in this Parliament to our mineral resources will have effects lasting for decades and probably for generations. Despite this vast wealth and even far greater potential,  Mr Fitzgerald  concluded: 
Apart from some regional benefit, which are . . . small in relation to the big values of high quality mineral resources being extracted and exported, the mineral industry is not contributing to the supreme task of raising welfare. 
The report summarised the position of the minerals industry in figures which have not since been faulted, except in detail. The Deputy Leader of the Country Party talked about the enormous contribution of the mining industry to Australia. Let me give some evidence of that contribution. He talked about the principle of free enterprise. Let me state the principles of free enterprise, as they apply in the mining industry. He talked about the poor old taxpayer having to pay for this Authority which will be set up by the proposed law which the Minister is now submitting to Parliament. Let me state what the mining companies have done to the poor old taxpayer. In the 6 years from 1967-68 to 1971-72 declared profits of principal mining and oil-producing companies, before tax, were $2,072m. Between 1967-68 and 1971-72 the Australian Government received $2 86m of that sum in tax and royalties but in the same period it provided to the companies $34 lm in tax concessions, subsidies, bounties and Bureau of Mineral Resources expenditures. Hence, although the companies made $2,072m profit, the Australian Government made a net contribution to them of $55m. The Deputy Leader of the Country Party supports that proposition. He talked about the poor old taxpayer. During the same period the companies paid $263m in royalties to the States, making contributions by them to all governments in Australia of $208m from profits of $2,072m, or less than 10 per cent. Who would not want to pay less than 10 per cent in taxation? Who, except the principal mining companies which made over $2,000m profit, has the privilege of paying less than 10 per cent in taxation? They are the principles of private enterprise. 
In addition, before the profits of $2,072m were arrived at, a vast amount was charged against the revenues of the companies which would be inconceivable in any other industry or would be inconceivable for mineral and mining companies in any other country.  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out the precise position of one of these companies. This is one of the principles of free enterprise. It is one of the great mining companies which have done so much for this nation. Let me quote in detail what  Mr Fitzgerald  wrote about one of them: 
The paper presents a number of concrete examples of the process in action. Hamersley Holdings Ltd . . . 
It is no worse than any of the other mining companies about 80 per cent foreign owned, is one of the major iron ore miners in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. Among all the iron ore projects this is the only one for which the standard details of financial information (profits, taxation, capital expenditures, etc.) are made available to the governments and the people of Australia. 
It is the only one from which we get information. What information do we get from that one?  Mr Fitzgerald  continued: 
Since it commenced ore shipments in 1966 Hamersley has declared profits, before tax, amounting to more than $264m. It has paid less than $lm in income tax; the total figure is $572,000. 
Think about the poor old taxpayers and the lugubrious speech that the Leader of the Country Party made. I thought that at any minute he would burst into tears over the taxpayers. Hamersley, out of that $264m, has paid $572,000 in taxation. He said it was risk capital and spoke of the enormous risks that these companies take. Still referring to Hamersley this writer said: 
It has more than repaid through dividends all the share capital invested by the 2 overseas groups which promoted the enterprise. 
It already has paid by way of dividends more than all the capital, risk capital, that those groups contributed. If only we could have a little more of that risk. The writer continued: 
It has shipped more than 116 million tons of ore, a tonnage representing more than half of its original proved ore reserves- and about a quarter of the estimated reserves- in its original lease at Mt Tom Price. But Hamersley has been granted further leases - 
These were granted by preceding governments- having estimated ore reserves of much more than 5,000 million tons. In fact, the company now designates a continuous area of some 20,000 square miles in north-west Australia as the 'Hamersley Iron Province', and has published maps with that title. 
The Deputy Leader of the Country Party said that it is the Government which has power over this matter. 
-Oh, he seems to me to be much too young to be a leader. To me he is more like a boy scout. The author continued: 
So far from having been required to cede some of the foreign equity in exchange for these great extensions of mining rights over ore deposits which are among the very best in the world, Hamersley has rather been able, on the strength of these assurances of reserves, to demand and get premiums of about 500 per cent in selling thin slices of the equity to Australian investors. The amount of money subscribed in these premium share issues has been nearly twice as much as the original- and unchanged- share capital subscribed by the 2 foreign promoters of Hamersley . . . 
So that is risk capital for you. This article continues: 
The extensions of ore reserves have spurred Hamersley to greater production and export of the ore. Its planned shipments of 34 million tons in the present calendar year, compared with actual exports of 27.7 million tons in 1973, will be six times as much as the originally programmed rate of production. 
This illustrates the so-called depressed mining industry to honourable members and honourable senators, the terribly depressed mining industry for which the Leader of the Country Party almost burst into tears. The Australian Government considers that the position of the mining and minerals industry in Australia, as established under preceding governments, is intolerable. I think that the great majority of the Australian people agree with us. This Government is concerned that the industry should contribute more to the Australian people than it does and it is convinced that something like the Petroleum and Minerals Authority for which this Bill provides is necessary for that purpose. No Australian government ever has had a clearer mandate for its legislation than this Government has for this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. 
The Leader of the Country Party, in that colourful but strikingly inaccurate manner that he has, spoke about the sheer weight of numbers in this place. That is another way of describing the decision of the national Parliament. When the national Parliament makes a decision it is through the sheer weight of numbers. This Bill has been twice passed through this House and has been stopped twice by a majority in the Senate acting against the decision of the House of Representatives, where the Government is formed. On top of that, the Leader of the Country Party and his lugubrious friends decided that they would force a double dissolution, thoroughly confident that they would come back here and be able to get their hands into the Treasury. But, no, they lost. No doubt they were surprised. Having again achieved a mandate we are now engaged in this first historic sitting of this Joint Parliament and honourable senators and honourable members are to be asked to vote on this Bill. That is described as blugeoning legislation through this Parliament by the sheer weight of numbers but it is an example of the democratic process working more thoroughly and at greater length than I think it has ever done in this nation. 
No Australian Government has ever had a clearer mandate for its legislation than this Government has had for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. I would think that nine out of ten citizens of this nation are convinced that the hand of the national Government has to be strengthened to preserve for them some share in the vast mineral resources of this nation. The Authority has a number of tasks to perform. Firstly, it will expand the search for, and facilitate the development of the nation's resources of hydrocarbons, especially crude oil, and natural gas and the integration of the use of the hydrocarbons including coal. Secondly, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will operate itself as an organisation owned by the people and charged to act first, and at all times, in the interests of the people. Do we not need in this nation some organisation owned by the people and charged to act first and at all times in the interests of the people? Thirdly, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will operate in partnership with technologically qualified private enterprise, both foreign and Australian, to ensure that not only the best technological and environmental methods are used, but also to maintain both Australian ownership and public interest and responsibility at the highest level. Do we not need to raise these things in this nation to a higher level? 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will not be operating in some declining and unprofitable field, into which public enterprise is normally allowed to function, but it will take a leading part in safeguarding and developing the vast mineral wealth of Australia, as the heritage of the people, and as one of the main sources of the welfare of the people for many generations. Recently the Minister for Minerals and Energy spoke about the future in the case of the vast undiscovered resources of the North West Shelf. The policy of all previous Australian governments was to allow one company to take up permits under its own power and control and responsible to nobody and, when it could not itself explore the resources, to farm out to other companies under its control. That is going to be changed. The company granted rights by previous governments will have its rights properly protected and preserved but it will not have rights over the future of this nation. The Australian Labor Party Government refused to continue this abdication of the people's rights to private, mostly foreign, companies. Of this Australian willingness to give away the nation's resources, a leading Liberal, the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  recently said: 
We will never see the day again when there is foreign investment in any part of Australia on an unrestricted basis. 
Then he went on: 
As far as the Federal Government is concerned, they have indicated that their policy in the energy field is 100 per cent Australian ownership. That indicates it is unikely they would permit the importation of foreign capital to exploit energy resources anywhere in Australia. That's that! We would not want it any different either. 
That was said by the Liberal Party Premier of Victoria. We may never again see unrestricted foreign investment in Australia or less than 100 per cent Australian ownership in the energy field and, if that is so, it will alone be because of the Whitlam Labor Government. The Victorian Liberal Premier is realistic enough to know that even Liberals cannot any longer allow foreign corporations to plunder Australian resources, almost without paying taxes, as I have shown, but the Federal Opposition is not realistic enough for that. The Federal Opposition would allow the plunder to go on. It still argues that unless taxless plunder is allowed to foreign corporations as a right, there will be no exploration or recovery. It still believes that it can sell out Australia behind this odious abdication of Australian rights. 
But this Bill alone is not enough. Unless there is a Labor Government to stand behind the Authority this Bill creates, the Authority will be diverted from its purpose. The continued existence of a Labor Government is essential if 
Australia's resources are to be fairly used in the interests of the Australian people. The Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Labor Government of Australia have held the pass against the sell out of Australia. While this may rank as the greatest single achievement of the Government, this pass is only held. Only Labor governments in Australia can ensure the doors will not be opened again to the sell-out of the nation. Only Labor can ensure that our national Wealth is used for the welfare of the people and not for the enrichment of just a few. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question 
The Book Bounty Act Return for 1972-73 was presented to the Parliament on 28 August 1973 as Parliamentary Paper No. 140. 
A record is not kept of the titles of books on which bounty is paid. Four thousand seven hundred and fifty-one tides were involved in 1972-73. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No grants have been made from appropriations which: 
remained the responsibility of the Minister for Trade and Industry and/or the Minister for Overseas Trade during 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74; or 
were under the control of the Minister for Trade and Industry and/or the Minister for Overseas Trade in 1971- 72 and/or 1972-73 and which did not recur in 1972- 73 and/or 1973-74. 
Information in respect of appropriations which were under the control of the Minister for Trade and Industry and/or the Minister for Overseas Trade in 1971-72 and/or 1972-73 but which have since passed to the control of another Minister during 1973-74, will be provided by that Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The Textiles Authority's report of 5 July 1 974 on certain items of apparel (Industries Assistance Commission Report No. 20) recommended that the Australian Government take action to restrain the level of certain knitted and woven apparel items entering the Australian market from Taiwan, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, India and China. In accepting and acting upon the Textiles Authority's findings and recommendations, the Australian Government has had regard to its rights and obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles (The Textiles Arrangement) and the Australia-China Trade Agreement. 
Taiwan is not a party to the GATT or to the Textiles Arrangement and the Australian Government has no bilateral trade commitments to Taiwan. The Government decided, therefore, to give effect to the Textiles Authority's findings and recommendations concerning Taiwan by means of import licensing controls. 
India, the Republic of Korea and Hong Kong, like Australia, are signatories to the Textiles Arrangement. The Arrangement provides for the application of restraints on trade in textiles products subject to certain provisions, including the need to consult with signatory member countries whose exports would be affected by proposed restraint action. 
In the case of China, the Textiles Authority recommended that restraint action be taken only in respect of imports into Australia of certain knitted products. Having regard, inter alia, to the reciprocal most-favoured-nation provisions of the Australia-China Trade Agreement, the Australian Government considered that the only responsible course of action was to consult with the Chinese authorities to seek to reach a mutually acceptable level of restraint on trade in the products concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following statistics of Australia 's trade with the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, for the period December 1972 to May 1974. Separate figures are shown for the main groups of commodities in which trade occurs with these two countries. The statistics for the period July 1973 to May 1974 are preliminary and subject to revision. 
-In the last seven or eight months there has been a considerable increase in the value and volume of imports that have come into Australia. That has had quite a number of effects. One is that a far larger quantity of goods has therefore been available for Australian consumers to buy. That must have reduced the extent and effect of inflation during that seven or eight months period. 
Professor Swan expressed a written opinion in the 'Australian' newspaper last week that it would have been 10 per cent greater now if those steps had not been taken. However, I am concerned at the fact that evidence has been accumulated over the last two or three months of very excessive retail profit margins. It is true that in some cases they have been as high as 300 per cent. Many of between 140 per cent and 250 per cent have been proved to my satisfaction. It is commonly known, of course, that retail profit margins vary a great deal and that where the average is 50 per cent or 60 per cent there can sometimes be a deviation to as much as 300 per cent. That has been a very common practice over a long period of time. However, the matter is so serious and in some ways the margins have been so great that the Government considers that it is justified in attempting to see whether an effective system of price regulation may be based on the constitutional powers that the Government has in relation to imports. The matter has been under examination for some time. I had hoped that retailers would respond by fixing more reasonable margins. So far we have had no evidence of their doing so. Provided the system that I have just indicated briefly is a workable one, the Government will seriously consider its introduction. 
I move: 
I move: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House imposes a tax of 2c per litre on liquefied gas used for propelling road vehicles. The introduction of this tax was foreshadowed in the Treasurer's Budget Speech. The tax imposed by this Bill applies only to liquefied gas used in the propulsion of road vehicles. It does not in any way affect the bulk of liquefied gas which is used in the community for domestic and industrial heating, cooking and various other purposes. The use of liquefied gas in road vehicles has been increasing at a significant rate. Users of liquefied gas for vehicle propulsion, however, do not, at present, contribute to Government revenues, much of which is expended on road construction and maintenance. This tax will remedy this anomaly. 
The rate of tax proposed- 2c per litre- is almost exactly 40 per cent of the current rate of excise duty on petrol and is considered to be a rate which will minimise the erosion of petrol excise whilst not unduly inhibiting expansion of the use of gas for propelling road vehicles. The Government is aware of the high cost of establishing supply and distribution facilities for liquefied gas and of the need to be able to plan such expansion with confidence. For this reason the Government has decided that, for the next S years, the rate of tax payable on liquefied gas used in road vehicles, will be increased only on 50 per cent of any increases of petrol excise that may occur in that period. Tax will be payable on liquefied gas used in propelling a road vehicle by the person owning the gas immediately before such use. It will be paid monthly by users on the basis of returns of use submitted to Collectors of Customs. The Bill proposes that the tax will operate on and from a date to be proclaimed. A summary of the clauses of the Bill is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House is complementary to the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Bill 1974 which has just been introduced. The 
Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill 1974 provides the administrative machinery which will become necessary for the collection of the tax on liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles when the tax comes into effect. Tax will be payable on liquefied gas used in propelling a road vehicle by the person owning the gas immediately before such use. It will be paid monthly by users on the basis of returns of use submitted to Collectors of Customs. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3 ) I refer the right honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Mimister on 24th July to Question No. 97 in respect of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only inter-departmental committee with an established structure and continuing role is related to Japan. Issues relating to trading relationships with other countries are handled in inter-departmental committees on an ad hoc basis as required. 
) Inter-Departmental Committee on Japan. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A total of 101 officers received some form of formal training in these procedures during the year ( 2 ) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House seeks to extend the Nitrogenous Fertilisers  Sudsidy  Act 1966-1973 for a period of 12 months to 31 December 1975 pending inquiry and report on the subsidy by the Industries Assistance Commission. This intention was announced by the Prime Minister on 1 0 June 1974. 
The Commission is required to report on the reference by September 1975 after which the Government will decide on assistance beyond 3 1 December 1975. 
The Government recognises the regional importance of nitrogenous fertilizers to sugar  producers, horticulture and other rural industries. Because many materials used in the manufacture of these fertilizers are imported and subject to price increases outside the control of local manufacturers, it is desirable to cushion the effects on Australian users until the Commission has reviewed the situation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.54 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To prepare a report on the nature and scale of computing services which will facilitate the Department's decision making processes and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its operations. 
) Computer Sciences of Australia Pry Ltd. 
$36,000. 
Department of Customs and ExciseManagement Consultant Firms  (Question No. 793) 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's questions: 
The Department of Customs and Excise has not formally engaged any management consultant firms in the last twelve months. However, during the year the Department has used on a part time basis the services of outside experts in various fields including management, accountancy and data processing. The total cost incurred  for these services for the last  twelve months was $ 16,943. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No exhaustive or exclusive list of industries was envisaged. There are many factors economic and other which would need to be taken into account in each instance. 
(a) Australians own a significant interest in the industry or enterprise. 
Australians exercise effective control. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's questions respectively: 
to (5) No officer of the Department of Customs and Excise is engaged in work that could be described as research and development as this expression is normally used. However, certain departmental officers are employed in positions designated as 'Research Officer'. They are engaged in applied research directed towards new or improved procedures, policies or administration. 
Australian Assistance Plan  (Questio n No. 891) 
-I have no knowledge that members of the Government or of the Opposition have peddled lies about tariff matters. I am very conscious of the unemployment that has taken place in the textile- both clothing and apparels- and footwear industries. It is difficult to say to what extent any of that unemployment is as a result of tariff changes or of the appreciation of the currency, which was the far more significant of the 2 things. It seems to me that the imports that have come into Australia in the last 12 months would substantially have come in even if tariff levels had remained the same. Those imports came in because of a very high level of demand in this country and because of the increased availability of supplies from overseas. I think that the effect of the tariff changes is summed up fairly well in the judgments made by economists of the influence of the tariff changes on price, and there is one competent estimate that it has made only 0.8 per cent of difference. But there has been a considerable increase in the volume of imports, and I would say that the appreciation of currency is far the more significant thing, and that the very high level of demand in Australia and the availability of supplies rank next. 
In any case, the Government and I are concerned to assess the effect of this increase. We will have no hesitation whatever in adopting policy measures of a quite opposite effect if that is considered to be necessary. A great deal of work has been done on this by departmental officials. An interim structural adjustment board was appointed last week to consider applications. A number have been granted already. We are concerned to deal with the situation by specific matters rather than by general changes such as tariff changes. We are prepared to look at the extension of the introduction of quotas which we have adopted already under GATT, which are subjects of agreements up to now. We are prepared to consider an extension of those if necessary. Finally, in taking into account the IAC report on the motor vehicle industry, the present state of the economy and the level of unemployment will certainly be taken into account when a decision is made about that. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of the International Bauxite Association Agreement 1 974. In order to save the time of the House I would ask leave to table it and to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
-I have asked for that. 
Speaking to the point of order, I submit that most of what the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party has just said is so vastly exaggerated that we ought to take this into account in determining the order of the House: I will be circulating this document to every member of the House and to every member of the Press gallery. I am asking that it be incorporated in Hansard so that it can be fully printed in Hansard and read by everbody and so that it may be then debated, if honourable members opposite wish - 
-I will make time available for debate if the honourable member wishes. It can be debated on the Appropriation Bills as well. I am quite prepared to co-operate even with the most irascible member of the Opposition. 
-There are some irascible ones, Jim. I am not including you. But there is no attempt to conceal anything. It is an example of the exaggeration that comes from the other side of the House. I sometimes wonder whether the honourable member realises what he is really saying? I do not mind what the honourable member does. The alternative is open to him, but in each case it is a completely open presentation of the information for everybody to see and understand. 
-I did not throw it. I put it down quite gently. If the honourable member cannot understand that I think he ought to have a second thought. 

 - Mr Speaker, how long will you allow the Leader of the Opposition to go on? 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the Export Payments Insurance Corporation annual report for 1974. 
-in reply- The Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Bill and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill are not difficult Bills so it has not taken long to debate them. There are one or two points I think that have to be made at the conclusion of this debate. The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  suggested that the Government had twice increased petrol excise. This is not so. The Government increased petrol excise once- in the August 1973 Budget. He referred also to the Government being aware of the high cost of establishing supply and distribution facilities for liquefied gas. The cost of transport of LPG reflects mainly the cost of the pressure vehicles that have to be used in the transport of LPG. That is the main cost problem at present. The cost of converting a car which uses petrol to a car which uses LPG is the other main cost standing in the way of a shift to the use of LPG. They are very considerable costs. 
The formula relationship between the tax on petrol and the tax on LPG, which is present in this legislation, is a ratio which the Government thinks puts the 2 products in their proper perspective. The tax on petrol is 22.3c and the tax on LPG is 9.09c. Whether one is concerned with the prevention of pollution, the conservation of resources, or any other matter of this kind, some kind of relationship between the two has to be established. It is not necessarily a relationship in which the tax on petrol goes up and up while there is no tax at all on LPG. It is as desirable to conserve the resources from which petrol comes as it is desirable to preserve LPG. The important thing is the ratio between the 2 products, and a nil ratio to a rising petrol tax is not necessarily the best position, particularly when a very high proportion of fuel for the greater number of motor vehicles in the country comes from petrol, and it will have to come from petrol for a long time ahead because of the cost of transport of LPG and the cost of conversion to LPG. 
The important thing here is that everybody knows that a tax on LPG is likely. This was proposed by a previous government and it withdrew from that position. I am not sure why it did so. The industry knew that a tax on LPG was likely and the industry wanted to know what the future would be. So in order to allow planning for the future in what is a very expensive industryit will remain a very expensive industry for a very long time- the Government has said that this tax will be imposed and will not be increased for 5 years. There will therefore be a 5-year period in which the industry can be certain as to the amount of tax. While it was zero, and partly because of what the previous Government did, nobody could be certain about what the tax would be. I point out to the honourable member for Fisher that for a long time the most expansion that will occur in the use of LPG will be in city areas because of transport costs and other costs of this kind. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  suggested that the Government should promote the use of LPG in city cars in order to reduce pollution. We would all like to see less pollution, but I think there is a practical view to be taken here. I have said that according to the advice we have the use of LPG will increase slowly because of the cost of transport and the cost of conversion. Motorists will not readily convert to LPG provided they can get petrol at a cost which is comparable with the present cost. We recognise that emissions from petrol consuming motor vehicles will be reduced at a fairly rapid rate. A program has been undertaken in this regard which will bring down the level of motor vehicle emissions fairly significantly. They will be brought down fairly significantly at what is believed to be a relatively lower cost than the cost of converting to LPG a private motor vehicle fleet in the city, either as it exists or in new cars. The alternative is to convert cars at a cost of $300 to $ 1 , 000 per car and install hundreds of garages with pressure facilities to sell gas. This would be a very costly and long term process. Do not imagine that we should say: Let us move into this area in order to deal with pollution'. The more practical thing to say is: Let us deal with motor cars that will be using petrol for a long time if we want to deal with pollution'. I think the idea put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar looks logical enough, provided one does not appreciate the significance of the cost factors in moving to LPG and the time that it is likely to take. The amendment to be moved by the honourable member for Mackellar is not acceptable to the Government. The Opposition has suggested that the method of the collection of the tax is clumsy. This conclusion, no doubt, comes from a comparison with the way in which the tax on petrol is collected. But do not forget that petrol comes from suppliers that are relatively few in number and is sold to consumers that are very large in number, whereas in the case of LPG only about 5 per cent that is used is used by private car owners; 90 per cent of it or more is used by fleet owners. There will be relatively few users of LPG, and it is these people who will be taxed. To apply the same system of tax collection as is applied to the motorists using petrol would be clumsy and unmanageable. Opposition speakers have decided that the proposed system of tax collection is clumsy because they have not recognised the circumstances of the distribution and use of LPG as compared with the circumstances of the distribution and use of petrol. It is a fact that there will be real savings for those users who have converted because of the distances that they are able to travel. Conversion of motor vehicles to LPG will be much more feasible for the commercial user than for the private motorist because he will be able to spread the $300 or $1,000 which is the cost of conversion. So it is likely that there will be much more development of commercial use than of private use in the cities. The amendment circulated would limit tax liability to 1 , 500 litres of gas per vehicle. That volume of gas would get a delivery truck less than 5,000 miles in the city, and such a truck would travel as much as 60,000 miles a year. So if we adopt the amendment we would be taxing people on 5,000 miles out of the 60,000 miles that they might happen to travel. Again this seems quite an unrealistic approach to what is actually happening. If it is the Opposition's intention not to penalise private motorists by requiring them to send monthly cheques for small amounts, then I do not think they give the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  and the Comptroller-General of Customs and Excise much credit. The honourable member for Mackellar knows that the Minister does not work out the details of these things and the way in which they are applied. They are worked out by officials who have a practical knowledge of these matters. When the honourable member says something about the Government not knowing the facts, what he is really saying is that the officials do not know the facts. I think the honourable member knows that because he has been a Minister himself and he knows how the system works. On a lighter note, when the honourable member said that this is a bad little Bill I thought he may have been talking about himself. But, no, I do not think it is bad when the practical factors involved are considered. I do not intend to delay the House any longer. I think that the points made by Opposition speakers should be taken into account, particularly as they are related to the future use of both petrol and LPG in relation to the conservation of resources and in relation to pollution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
There are 2 discretions- one in clause 7 and one in clause 8. The first one is in relation to the Comptroller who is required to collect the tax on a monthly return basis. I have pointed out that this is the standard practice throughout the community in relation to sales tax. There are many thousands of payers of sales tax who have to furnish monthly returns. It has been accepted as being a desirable practice over many years that these things not be allowed to run on and that the period for which the return is made should be relatively short. That has been the long standing practice. There is a discretion here. 
It is the purchaser in this case. 
-No. But a businessman has no less trouble in that respect. In fact, he might have a good deal more. I do not know whether the honourable member for North Sydney was present in the chamber when I pointed out that the users of 95 per cent of the LPG used are small in number and that they use a great deal. The economics of the  situation are  such that only long run commercial users can afford to spread the overheads of the conversion. That is where the situation is at the moment. So we are dealing predominantly with a relatively small number of people. I should think that the special circumstances would be reasonably applied and that where normal use is going on monthly returns would be required. But if there is any departure from that normality I should think that the Comptroller would apply the legislation quite liberally. It is the intention of the collection that it be maintained on a monthly basis. Clause 8 reads:  a person liable to pay tax in respect of the use of liquefied gas shall pay the tax within the period within which he is required under section 7 to furnish a return with respect to that use or within such further period as the Comptroller, in special circumstances, allows. 
-There is a discretion in both cases. Where normal use of the gas is the case the monthly period will be expected to be applied. But where there is something that is not normal I am quite sure that the legislation will be applied with reasonable liberality. I think that what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has just said in relation to the amendment was covered in his remarks in the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I do not think there is anything further that I should add at this stage. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  often speaks in this place with a condescending self righteousness that I find is never of assistance to him in getting his point across. The discretion about which he has been talking with respect to clause 7 is a discretion that the Comptroller-General will exercise wisely. The Comptroller-General is a responsible public servant who is accustomed to exercising discretions of this sort, especially in the collection of taxes like the diesel taxes. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  misreads the discretion altogether. The Comptroller-General must receive a return for each month's usage, but he has a discretion to ask, for example, that returns be lodged together, say, only twice or four times a year. Returns for January, February and March may be lodged simultaneously in April and so on for the next quarter. Perhaps the honourable member for Mackellar does not know it, but that is a common practice. 
The words 'special circumstances' are specially directed at small users. Small use in itself would be a special circumstance. If the few motorists who are using liquefied petroleum gas at present are using small quantities each month, that situation would constitute special circumstances to allow the period for lodging returns to be extended. I point out that the discretion can be applied in 2 ways. Returns for a number of months may be submitted together at one time or the period in which small users shall submit a return may be extended. That is how 'special circumstances' would be interpreted in practice. The last point about the honourable member's amendment is the one I mentioned in referring to his amendment. If there is to be a tax on LPG we cannot accept an amendment which cuts down the number of miles on which tax may be levied for the LPG used by the average commercial user from 60,000 miles to about 5,000 miles. In other words, the honourable member wants us to tax about 8 per cent of the average use of LPG. That would make a farce of the legislation. You either have the tax or you do not have it. 
-No, the answer is that the principle would not be different. The tax deduction would be the cost of the gas plus the excise charge paid. The 2 payments would be treated in the same way as the purchase of petrol is regarded. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I am aware of the reports of retrenchments at the 2 factories mentioned by the honourable member. I point out that when an economy has reached a very high point of demand, of inflation, such as ours has, there is invariably sooner or later a downturn in demand and a downturn in employment. No matter what a government does or does not do, that is a very likely result. It has happened on many occasions before and it will happen again. No government can guarantee that every person in employment in those circumstances will remain in employment, especially in the place where he has been employed before. We have now a fairly adequate record of what has been happening as a result of changes in industry, which may be classified as structural changes resulting from such things as increased imports- and that applies strictly to the 2 cases mentioned by the honourable member. I should like the House to have an indication of the figures so that it may know and so that the people may know just where this unemployment is taking place. In the reported groups at the end of August the figures are: Chemicals and oils, 1; basic metals, 13; nonelectrical plant and machinery, 69; electrical machinery and cables, 278; vehicles, 77; textiles and knitted groups, 2,266; skins and leather, 24; clothing, 547; footwear, 407; furniture and furnishings, 5; paper products, 1; other types of industry, 11; other metal manufacturers, 9; bricks and tiles, 2 1; pottery, 2; and meat slaughtering, 8-a total of 3,739. 
Those figures indicate the concentration that exists in the textiles and knitted groups of industries and in the clothing and footwear industries. If those figures are left out, the remaining figures are almost negligible. The concentration in the State of Victoria is shown by the number of people in receipt of special readjustment assistance at the end of August. The total Australian situation is that 1,733 people were in receipt of assistance, and of that number 1, 146 were in Victoria. The further indication that comes from these figures is that most of these people are concentrated in very few areas. Most of the people who are out of employment, and have been for any length of time- for more than a week or 10 days- are in those areas. In Geelong, 36.8 per cent were out of employment for less than a month; in Shepparton, 38.7 per cent; in Wangaratta, 38.3 per cent; in Kempsey, 32.5 per cent; and in Launceston, 43.9 per cent. Those are the figures for the areas in which unemployment is at the highest level. 
The action taken to deal with the situation has to be specific. To be appropriate it has to be directed at the industry concerned and at the place concerned. It is the intention of the Government to bring about re-employment in the areas concerned, in the places concerned and, if possible, in the factories concerned by measures which will be taken and which will be administered by the Interim Structural Adjustment Board that was appointed last week. I point out also that I mentioned yesterday that the Government had adopted a policy appropriate to the circumstances that prevailed in 1973 and we are not now dealing, as we were then, simply with inflation. We are dealing now with inflation and unemployment as a result of economic circumstances which generate very largely in the economic system itself. 
I pointed out yesterday that the policy adopted to deal with that situation included an appreciation of the Australian dollar. I said yesterday that when the Government was satisfied that circumstances had changed policy would change, and policy changed last night in respect of the value of the Australian dollar. I point out that the depreciation of the Australian dollar, which the Government brought about last night, will give considerable protection to the industries which I have just listed and will result in re-employment in those industries, as well as helping the establishment of confidence by business which will allow investment to proceed at a more rapid rate. The policy adopted last night is appropriate to the circumstances that prevail now. Never before in the history of this country- at least since World War II-have we had a government which has applied policy appropriate to circumstances and which is ready to change if circumstances change. 
This is a very important matter. It is true that the Australian Council of Trade Unions- it has taken a position that is widely understood as being representative of the view of the trade union movement- has submitted to the Government that, in the course of establishing what would be a common policy to deal with the present economic situation, including both inflation and unemployment, in Australia, the Government should consider favourably the introduction of import quotas or the introduction of quotas allowing smaller amounts to come into Australia than exist under quotas already. It is true also that I informed the  President  of the ACTU last week that the Government would give consideration to that request. That is still our position. 
I pointed out, in answering a question a few minutes ago, that the depreciation of the Australian dollar has the effect, among other effects, of protecting those industries that are under pressure. Whilst I am sure that no remedy can have an effect for a month or two, because of the time taken for orders that are already made to reach Australia and to be sold, I would hope and expect that the depreciation of the currency would have the kind of effect that the ACTU and the unions want. I hope that the unions and the workers will understand the effect of that depreciation and that it will be unnecessary in the interests of industry and the country to proceed any further by any other protective measures at all. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 13 ( 1974) 
On 12 September the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on gloves, mittens or mitts. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 13 (1974) which I have just tabled give effect to that decision. The Government's decision to implement the Commission's recommendations will mean that a general rate of 25 per cent will apply to gloves of the industrial type that are wholly or partly coated or covered with artificial plastic material and to uncoated knitted or crocheted gloves that are suitable for use in the production of such industrial type gloves. Minimum rates of duty will apply to all other goods covered by the Commission's report, such as dress gloves. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. Proposals No. 13 (1974) also include an amendment to correct a drafting deficiency in the item relating to compressed gas cylinders. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, the Bill now before the House seeks to implement the Government's decision to adopt a recommendation of the then Tariff Board that assistance by way of bounty be afforded the manufacture in Australia of sealed unit compressors of 1.5 kW or less. The recommendation is contained in the Board's Report of 10 October 1973, on domestic appliances, heating and cooling equipment etc. Honourable members will recall that the report advocated also a reduction in the rate of duty on sealed unit compressors of 1.5 kW or less from 43.125 per cent to 25 per cent. An appropriate amendment to the Customs Tariff has operated since 4 February 1974. On and from that date and until 3 February 1976, this Bill provides that a bounty of $5 each be paid on sealed unit compressors of 1.5 kW or less. Capacity of the local market is estimated at 400,000 units annually and bounty ceiling is confined by the Bill to $2,000,000 per annum with provision for the rate per unit to be proportionately decreased if the total of valid claims should exceed the annual ceiling. There are three Australian manufacturers of this type of compressor, the largest of whom has a substantial export market and is undertaking expansion and further mechanisation of production facilities. The steps being taken by the Government are intended to rationalise this manufacture. 
The Bill further provides that to receive bounty a compressor must be produced and sold by the manufacturer during a bounty period for use as a refrigeration component in the manufacture of other goods that are subsequently used in Australia. Other provisions of the Bill are those normally included in similar legislation to ensure the proper disposal of public funds. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Book Bounty Act 1969-1973 to give effect to a recommendation of the then Tariff Board in its report of 21 September 1973 on products of the printing industry. Book Bounty to date has been an interim measure of assistance to the industry pending the Board's inquiry. The report recommended that the bounty rate be increased from 25% to 33V$% of cost of production of bountiable books to permit the local industry to remain competitive with overseas producers. The new rate will be effective from 17 December 1973, as announced by the Prime Minister in a press statement on 18 December last. The report recommended also that packaging charges and protective covers be included in bountiable costs but that otherwise the production costs on which existing bounty is claimed, should continue to provide the basis of payments at the new rate. Text books as defined in the Bill are excluded from the minimum page criterion governing other bountiable publications which must contain 49 or more predominantly printed or illustrated pages comprising a total area of at least one square metre. 
The Bill does not seek to implement the report's recommendation that saddle-stapled publications be in future excluded from bounty assistance. A survey of the affected sector of the industry conducted since the Board's inquiry has led the Government to decide that saddlestapled publications otherwise eligible should continue to receive assistance in terms of this Bill. 
The subjective requirements of literary or educational character contained in the present Act are deleted but all other exclusions are retained. These relate to advertising material and publications the printing, publishing or postal transmission of which would be an offence against a law of Australia. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death on 26 September 1974 of the Right Honourable  Sir Eric  Harrison, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., a member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Wentworth from 193 1 to 1956, and during this time a Minister of the Crown, Acting Prime Minister,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and Resident Minister in London and then from 1956 to 1964 High Commissioner for Australia in London; and that it places on record its appreciation of his long and distinguished public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family. 
The Right Honourable  Sir Eric  John Harrison, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., was Australian High Commissioner in London between 1956 and 1964, when he retired. He was Vice-President of the Executive Council, Leader of the House of Representatives and Minister for Defence Production from 195 1 to 1956. He was made a Privy Councillor in 1952. He was the member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Wentworth in New South Wales for a very long period-from 1931 to 1956. In 1956 he retired to become Australian High Commissioner in London. 

 Sir Eric Harrison was born in Birmingham. He was educated at the Crown Street School in Sydney. He saw service throughout World War I in the Australian Imperial Force- from 1914 to 1918. During World War II he was a captain and liaison officer to the United States forces. He was Minister for the Interior in 1934, Minister without portfolio in 1938 and 1939, PostmasterGeneral and Minister for Repatriation from 1939 to 1940, Minister for Trade and Customs from 1940 to 1941, a member of the Economic Cabinet from 1939 to 1941 and  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia from 1944. He was  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition from 1944 to 1949 and Minister for Defence from 1949 to 1 950. That is a very long parliamentary career. 
Anyone who knew  Sir Eric  Harrison knows that he was an exceedingly competent parliamentarian. I was a member of this House for a short period when  Sir Eric  Harrison was here, and I got to know him as a most effective Leader of the House and a most effective debater who was vigorous but who had a sense of humour that was apparent in everything that he did. He was one of the most competent leaders of this House that have been here during the 19 years I have been a member. He was much senior to me but I found him to be a person very easy to get on with and one with whom it was easy to talk. I watched him at work, often picking up ideas about how he went about his job. 
Beyond his work in the House I hardly knew him, but I should imagine that his good nature and his awareness of how to deal with people would have stood his in good stead wherever he was. I found him to be a most likeable person. Later, whenever he returned from London, it was easy to take up with him again as though it had been almost the other day that one last saw him. The House will feel the loss of  Sir Eric  Harrison considerably. I express my sympathy to his widow and family and to all those who have had high regard for him. 
I inform the House that the Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  will be absent from Australia from 27 September until 14 October attending the 1974 annual meetings of the Boards of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank which are being held in Washington. In his absence the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  will act as Treasurer. The Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  will be absent from Australia from 1 October until 7 October attending the South Pacific Conference in Raro tonga. In his absence the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass,  will act as Minister for Science. 
The House has already been informed that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  will be absent from 27 September until 13 October on his visit to the United States of America, Canada and Fiji. I will act as Prime Minister until my departure for China on 4 October. The Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  will be Acting Prime  Minister  during the remainder of the Prime Minister's absence. 
Yes, I did say that. My own view is that this could have been handled better. (Opposition members interjecting) - 
-A11 right. I do not see any point in saying one thing when one believes another. It is a practice around here, I know. I believe that there was very great justification for changing the way in which the superphosphate bounty was provided because well over 60 per cent of what was paid in that respect went to very few users- about 20 per cent of the users- and it was not getting through to where it was most needed. Because of that situation there was a very strong case for changing it. The matter has been referred to the Industries Assistance Commission and in due course- I hope it will be soon- a report will be available. The Government will then act, taking into account the advice that comes from the Commission. I think that the amount of time which necessarily will be taken by the Commission in handling this matter is an indication that the change cannot properly and quickly be made. I hope that we are in a position to be able to consider the matter before long. 
I was under the impression that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition had been saying for a long time that I had far too much to do with central decisions on economic policy. The Opposition and the Press have been having a lot of fun lately playing me up in contrast to other members of the Government, so the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, as usual, wants to have it both ways. I think he will find that in the end he will have it neither way. The question presupposes that we are going to have a debate on the Budget here and now. I do not intend to follow that course. I want to answer questions as briefly as possible, particularly when there is little in them. The question from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is based on a premise that he knows to be wrong. Press releases by both the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition recently have shown how wrong they are. The Budget is not based on the assumption that there will be a reduction in the private sector. Indeed, there will be an increase- and a significant increase- in the private sector. In fact, both gentlemen whom I mentioned have been saying that recently and have been saying also that the Government is in fact budgeting on a continuation of inflation and a continuation of the expansion of the private sector, which is a contradiction of the basic premise on which this question rests. I do not think the matter needs to be taken any further. 
-In relation to the latter point, I think that the Industries Assistance Commission, in terms of the present referral, can give the Government a full range of advice- all that it needs- in order to make a proper decision in this matter. I agree with the emphasis given by the Prime Minister in his speech reported this morning to the role that has to be played by food producing countries, of which Australia is one of the leading nations. I think that there is a tremendous future especially in the production of proteins in Australia. There are years of setbacks and there are years of boom. But, if one considers the trend over a period, that trend is going ever upwards as the standard of living of 2,000 million or 3,000 million people around the world rises rapidly. This is a characteristic feature of modern economic history and undoubtedly Australia has a great future in expanding its production of foodstuffs, especially proteins. 
In this development, it has to be realised that primary production these days is essentially a high capital industry. The  problems of primary  producers are essentially and primarily the problems of getting enough capital to get going the operation that is necessary today. It is no longer possible on a small scale basis in any area. We have unfortunately in Australia many producers still who are trying to operate on a small scale capital basis. 
-Of course it is. Therefore, the economic forces about which I am talking are the forces which are changing this situation. I believe that the Government has a responsibility to assist this change and to provide encouragement for investment for technological progress that will achieve the result that is necessary both in the short run and in the long run. I have never been satisfied with the systems of subsidies and assistance that we inherited from previous governments. As I said in answer to the first question I was asked today, I think there was a very strong case to change that. The only fault I saw in the situation, looking back on it now- it is much easier to be wise after the event than it was at the time - 
The honourable member would have attacked us for anything we did, no matter what it was. 
The honourable member is using extravagant language. The Government does not aim to reduce employment in the textile industry. The honourable member's description is not at all confirmed by the facts. There has been a reduction in employment in the textile industry in a number of areas, but in some of those areas it has not gone beyond the increase that took place in the year before. This includes the area of Wangaratta with which I understand the honourable member is particularly concerned. The Government does not yet know, nor does the honourable member know, nor does anyone know, what effect the depreciation of the currency will have upon imports. It will not have an effect on those imports that have already been ordered, but beyond that it will have an effect. We do not know what the effect will be, the honourable member does not know, and the industry does not know. It will reduce imports and it will give an added measure of protection to the industries in which he is interested. 
The agreement made with the countries that export commodities to Australia in the textile and clothing area followed an inquiry by the textile authority. Immediately the report by that authority was presented, the Government acted on it without delay. The period was fixed to the end of April 1974 to meet with the requirements of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. This Government has an obligation to GATT, and I would imagine that an honourable member who is a member of the Australian Country Party would appreciate the reason for that. It is extremely difficult, if we are concerned to maximise our markets for meat and other commodities, with which the honourable member should be concerned, to impose restrictions when at the same time we are endeavouring to open markets that are limited by restrictions against us. It gives the other countries an argument which is exceedingly strong and this Government will endeavour as far as is possible in all circumstances to adhere to the principles laid down in GATT. I would imagine that a party that represents primary producers ought, even more than the Government, to accept that principle. 
I am well aware that there are industries in this country that are efficient in the sense that they may produce as much of a physical volume of commodities, of equal value, as those produced by industries in other countries, yet those industries in Australia may not be competitive. I think the better word to use is 'competitive', all the time not 'efficient'. If one says an industry is not competitive, then one does not provoke the kind of dissatisfaction that comes from people who believe, and probably rightly, that the industry is efficient. At any time a government has a responsibility to do what it can to see that the country 's industries are competitive so that it does not impose extra burdens upon consumers and taxpayers by tariffs and subsidies. That is a primary responsibility, and if it is necessary for us, as it is necessary, to maintain employment in areas where there is no employment, then I think it has to be done by more direct measures. As I said the other day when announcing the depreciation of the dollar, I hope that this will have the effects of stabilising and possibly increasing the level of activity of the industries in question. If that does not result, the Government will be prepared to consider more direct measures of assistance to them. 
The matters that the honourable member mentioned in respect of policy are matters that he would know require work before appropriate action can be taken. This has been under way. When the Government is in a position to announce effective policies on the matters that the honourable member has mentioned they will be announced. The contraction that it taking place in the economy today is a contraction that always takes place when a peak is reached, and much of what is happening today is as a result of the normal contraction of the economy that must take place. This situation has occurred on many occasions before. As distinct from the role taken by a number of our predecessors who were not as much concerned about unemployment as we are, our reaction is to moderate the contraction as far as possible and to take positive measures to see that employment is maintained. A government comprised of honourable members who now sit on this side of the House will never accept a policy of unemployment- mass unemployment or any other sort of unemployment- to deal with any economic problem. 
For the information of honourable members, I present 2 reports prepared by the Industries Assistance Commission entitled 'Woodworking and Metalworking Machinery', dated 28 June 1974, and 'Glass Fibre Rovings and Chopped Strand Mat', dated 3 1 July 1974. 
-( Lalor- Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade)- For the information of honourable members, I present the first report of the Australian Council for the Arts, January to December 1973. 
-The question that the Leader of the Opposition has asked is based on rumour and speculation. I attended the football with him on Saturday and I think there has been a bit of a carryover. 
I am aware of the widespread view that the rate of interest in this respect is high and may cause difficulties that could be avoided. I am not specifically aware of the rate of interest that is charged but I will have that checked and inform the honourable member. There are differences between the powers in Australia, especially in the operation of the Reserve Bank as a lender of last resort, and those in the United Kingdom and the 
United States of America. Undoubtedly the position could be improved in those 2 countries as well as in Australia. I am satisfied that the powers and scope of the Reserve Bank are adequate, although undoubtedly they could be improved. I think it is most important that at any time these powers should be adequate, that they are seen to be adequate and that they are sufficient to justify the confidence of the community in the ability of the Reserve Bank to do its job. I have that confidence and I hope it is shared by everybody else. 
When the Shah of Iran was here the Prime Minister and I had extensive discussions with him covering all the areas which have just been mentioned in the right honourable gentleman's question. The Shah expressed his interest especially in iron ore and the pelletising of it, in the processing of bauxite and in uranium. He expressed interest also in investing in Australia. He made it clear that he appreciated our position in standing strongly for independent Australian ownership, especially by a government body. He said that it was a fundamental principle in his own country for mineral and other resources that are essential to the nation to be owned by the nation. He told us that that is a fundamental principle of his own government. He appreciated the extent to which he had high regard in this country for Australian ownership, both private and public. We mentioned to him- he already knew- the position of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority and he expressed the view that he would consider favourably investment in such bodies. That is a general position that was taken both by - 
-It may be that the Leader of the Opposition does not understand investment but now is not the time for me to be concerned about educating him on it. 
-I am aware of the statement made by the Prime Minister, and it coincides with the statement in this respect which I gave in the House yesterday in answer to a question on this subject. Both the Prime Minister and I realise the significance of Australia as a food producer and the rising demand which will take place in the rest of the world over the next decade or two because of the dramatic increase in the standard of living of so many millions of people which is likely to take place in those decades. I do not think that the description of the superphosphate bounty as a welfare provision is a new one. In my opinion, it has been a welfare provision for a long time for quite a number of people who did not need it, especially the wealthy farmers who got most of it. It was very largely as a result of this welfare provision by which previous governments were willing to make the assistance available to primary industry that we decided to bring an end to the existing arrangement and refer the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission, albeit on a narrow basis. Yesterday I said that I believed that although this reference was a narrow one it would allow the Industries Assistance Commission to give to the Government advice on which we could decide upon the matter of superphosphate assistance in general. I am satisfied that that is so. Unless I can see much greater evidence than I see now of the necessity to widen the reference, I would think there is  no  need to do so. 
The level of unemployment in Tasmania is higher than the Australian average. I listened to the answer given by the Minister for Labor and Immigration to the question asked by the honourable member for Denison. I listened to the details of the projects that were named by him. I know from my own travelling in northern Tasmania on Friday how welcome each and every one of those projects will be. I know from my own knowledge that at least a dozen of them were put to me on Friday as necessary jobs that the people in that area wanted to be done, and that the people there were looking forward to getting finance very soon to do them. I assured them, while I was there that the Government would quickly respond in respect of that and the response has been quick. Had the Leader of the Opposition had enough sense to agree to have that list incorporated in Hansard insead of obstinately refusing to agree to it, that list could have been recorded properly, as it should be recorded, but of course he would not do that. I think that the Minister for Labor and Immigration was not only exercising his responsiblity, but he was exercising it well. I am satisfied that those projects for which more than $lm is immediately being provided- and that, if necessary, is the beginning of it- will go a long way towards meeting much of the immediate needs not only for employment but also for very useful work in the areas that he has detailed. 
I present for the information of honourable members 3 reports prepared by the Industries Assistance Commission titled Polyamide and Polyester Yarns dated 18 June 1974, Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord Fabrics dated 25 June 1974, and Foundation Garments dated 28 June 1974. These reports were forwarded to the Prime Minister on 1 7, 24 and 25 July respectively. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970 1 present for the information of honourable members the fourth annual report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation for the period 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974. 
-In a question of this sort I do not think it is altogether appropriate to impute dishonesty to me or to anyone in this place. I do not suggest that it is a breach of the Standing Orders but it is getting close to it. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is basing his  questions on newspaper reports, as was his Leader yesterday, and those newspaper reports do not happen to be accurate. 
-I am telling the honourable gentleman that they do not happen to be accurate. The position is that unemployment can be a result of objective conditions. It can be a result of the way the economy operates, for a start, irrespective of what is Government policy. Much of the unemployment that has occurred so far is a result of objective conditions. It is the primary responsibility of the Government, one that we readily accept, to prevent objective conditions bringing about unemployment. 
You have already asked one question but if you would like to ask another I am sure the  Speaker  will give you the opportunity. 
It is the practice of this Government, as it has been of all previous governments, not to give information about specific aspects of security. We maintain that position as did our predecessors. A comprehensive inquiry is being conducted by a very competent commissioner,  Mr Justice  Hope, into the security operations of Australian security organisations. It is expected that that inquiry will cover all aspects, including any possible operations of Australian security organisations outside Australia. I am not going to pre-empt that inquiry nor make any statement until the Government has a report from  Mr Justice  Hope. 
-I am aware of the Prime Minister's recorded statements and I am very glad that he made those statements in the world scene in the United States. I think they are extremely important. They indicate that the Prime Minister of this country is conscious of the tremendous role that this country can play in the production of foodstuffs. 
The honourable member already has had too much incentive, even at this hour of the day. He is terribly keen. I do not suppose anyone interjects more regularly than he does. The Government is conscious of this enormous opportunity for the production of food in this country. The honourable member who asked the question will know that we have had an inquiry into primary industry and that a Green Paper has been published. I think that Green Paper provides an excellent basis for the development of policies. I assure the honourable member that the Government is concerned to develop policies, guided by that Green Paper. At the earliest possible opportunity those policies will be implemented. 
-I think the right honourable member may be the most distinguished Treasurer in the House but he is certainly not the most distinguished asker of questions. That is his present role and it is in that role that I have to deal with his question. I think first of all that the figures he has quoted at the beginning of his speech, or question, were not accurate. I think he is not quoting an annual figure when he talks about a reduction in the money supply. The annual figure for the last financial year is an increase of 14 per cent in the money supply. This compares with an average of about 6 per cent before 1 972 and an increase of 20 per cent in 1 972, a year in which he had considerable responsibility for what was happening. I think that the increase in the money supply in 1 972 contributed very substantially to the inflation in Australia in 1973. The right honourable gentleman will know that the increase in the money supply in a year like 1972 would have a lag effect and would have a considerable influence in the year that followed. I have said before that the right honourable gentleman's money policy in 1972 created a very serious problem for this Government in 1973. 
Since we have assessed the economy as one in which there is need for an increase in the money supply, I point out that since June of this year we have released $600m to the trading banks- $600m. When the right honourable gentleman has time to listen rather than to talk I am sure we will have a better chance of reaching agreement. 
-When he has time to study the figures which reflect the $600m I have just mentioned he will see that there is no decrease in the money supply but an appropriate increase. We have also reduced the variable deposits at the Reserve Bank to 5 per cent, a nominal figure, and the Government has not entered the bond market. I am sure the right honourable gentleman has noticed that. I think it is a question of very difficult judgment, very intricate judgment, to know just what increase in the money supply is needed. But the Government and the Reserve Bank and the Treasury have this matter constantly under review- each of the matters he has mentioned as well as additional matters- and I am sure that we will be able to gain a lot from the advice given to us from those sources; but I am not sure that we have been helped much by the policy of the Liberal Party. 
-I have found that the Leader of the Opposition in the last few days has been very happy, but his depression at the moment is only too obvious. I wondered what had happened to him when I saw him come into the House. Now I know- he has been reading the wrong documents. I mentioned in my answer to the right honourable member for Lowe that since June $600m has been released to the trading banks. Perhaps the right honourable member did not know that. I do not suppose any political party in this country has been so firmly dedicated to full employment as has the Australian Labor Party. 
Full employment became a reality in Australia in terms of the White Paper on full employment in 1945. That White Paper became the basic document for the Chifley Government over a period of 4 years, in which the transfer of over 1 million people out of war industry and out of the armed Services was secured with very little unemployment. I have not hesitated to point out that the unemployment that is occurring in Australia today is a result of an objective downturn from a degree of inflation which is first of all world-wide and which is more intensive than it has been for many years. In those circumstances, because of purely objective conditions, a certain amount of unemployment occurs. The Goverment is committed completely, as distinct from an alternative in this nation, to the prevention of that unemployment. Everyone knows that a goverment drawn from the other side of the House would use unemployment to bring inflation to an end, would use unemployment to destroy inflationary expectations, would use unemployment to destroy the ability of the trade union movement to bargain effectively for increased wages. The policy of this Goverment has been to ensure that the real standards of the workers are maintained. The statistics show that average weekly earnings have risen more throughout the period this Government has been in office than has the cost of living, and at a greater rate under this Government than under any proceeding Government. (Opposition members interjecting) - 

 - Mr Speaker, for the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission entitled 'Glass and Glassware', dated 23 May 1974, and copies of correspondence between the  Chairman  of the Commission and the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Assistance to Industries. The report was forwarded to the Prime Minister on 20 June 1974. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973 my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about inter-departmental committees that, if he wishes to know the composition and function of any particular inter-departmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 1 5 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and I0S7 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
Department of Customs and Excise: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 280) 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) See (1) 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) 1972-73: 6 titles, 1973-74: 68 titles. 
, (3) and (4) No titles were approved or disapproved as suitable. Bounty was paid on books which qualified under the Act. The applicants were: 
1972- 73 
New Century Press 
Apex Engraving Co. Pty Ltd 
Maxwell Printing Co. Pty Ltd 
1973- 74 
The Griffin Press Ltd 
Rotospeed Press 
Spendloves Pty Ltd 
Watson Ferguson and Co. 
North Shore Binding Co. Ltd 
E.D. Printing Pty Ltd 
Wymond Marell (Printers) Pty Ltd 
Australian Direct Mail Advertising and Addressing Co. Pty Ltd 
Tomato Press 
Kralco Printing Co. Pty Ltd 
Photo Offset Pty Ltd 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answers to the honourable member's question: 
Section 18(2) of the Book Bounty Act requires the Minister to table a copy of the return in each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after that return is received by him. The return for 1 973-74 will accordingly be tabled in the current session of Parliament. 
) Requirements for registration of premises are that: 
all or any of the production processes in relation to books can be carried out on those premises 
b) the costing and accounting records are satisfactory. 
A printed form. 
(a) Officers at Class 5 or 6 classification in the Third Division 
as delegates of the Minister, officers of the Second Division other than in Tasmania and Northern Territory where the Collectors of Customs are Class 10, Third Division. 
Forms are retained in the Department's offices in the States and Territories. 
As stated in answers to two previous questions on notice by the honourable member, a record of titles is not kept. Eight hundred and ninety-two titles were involved in South Australia in 1972-73. Regular maintenance of a consolidated list of titles appearing on individual claim forms is not an operational necessity. Preparation of the record now sought would thus impose a significant and- it is felt- unjustified workload on the Department 's South Australian office. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. All interdepartmental committees are made up of several Departments and those of which the Department of Overseas Trade is a member contain also other Departments. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
) to ( 5 ) No officer of the Department of Overseas Trade or the authorities under my control is engaged on work which would be described normally as 'research and development'. However a number of officers of the Department and the authorities, of various classification levels, engage regularly in research, in analysing developments in world trade and developing new or revised policy proposals or procedures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr Levinson has higher degrees in economics and industrial sociology from the Universities of Toronto and Paris. He has also lectured in economics and labour studies at Toronto University. 

 Dr Levinsion is currently Secretary-General of the International Federation of Chemical and General Workers' Unions in Geneva. 
Yes. His return air fares and hotel expenses in Australia were met by the Australian Government, at an approximate cost of $2,900. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (a), (b) and (c) An IDC consisting of officials from the Departments of the Treasury, Overseas Trade and the former Department of Secondary Industry was set up to examine the need for a satisfactory export incentives scheme and report as soon as possible to the Treasurer and the then Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry. The Committee's report was presented to Cabinet on 13 March 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The membership of the Committee comprised representatives of the Department of Overseas Trade, the former Department of Secondary Industry, the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. 
and (c) The Committee's charter was 'to examine the need for any new facilities to provide export finance and to report to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry and the Treasurer as soon as possible'. The Committee completed its report in June 1973. Following Cabinet's consideration of the Committee's report, I announced in August 1973 the Government's intention to establish an Export Bank. 
Department of the Media: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 347) 
I present for the information of honourable members the report on footwear, dated 10 October 1974, of the Temporary Assistance Authority in accordance with section 30(2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, and the report of the Tariff Board on photographic and cinematographic apparatus, etcetera dated 4 May 1972. 
I think the number of honourable members who were absent from the House this morning indicates the view of the 120-odd members of this House that nothing was going to come from the Opposition in this debate, and the speeches by the 2 Deputy Leaders have indicated that nothing has come. At the present time there are 8 members of the Liberal Party here, there are 2 members of the Country Party here - 
-A lot fewer Labor men beacuse the Labor men were even more convinced than the Opposition's lot that they would hear nothing worth hearing and they did not come in at all. I think what has been shown by the sparse attendance - 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Bill (1974) now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1973. The Bill, which operates on and from 1 July 1974, introduces complete new Schedules to the Customs Tariff. The new Schedules contain tariff changes arising from the 25 per cent tariff reduction introduced on 19 July 1973 and the adoption by the Government of recommendations made in reports by the Tariff Board, Special Advisory Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission. At the time the various Tariff proposals implementing these changes were introduced, the nature of the changes was explained at some length. To facilitate honourable members' research for the ensuing debate, I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard details of earlier relevant speeches and their whereabouts in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill to amend the Customs Tariff 1966-1973 comprises 4 schedules. The First and Third Schedules contain tariff changes arising from decisions by the Government on recommendations made in reports by the Tariff Board and the 
Industries Assistance Commission. The Second and Fourth Schedules provide for the increases in customs duties on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products which formed part of the Government's budgetary program. The increases in the latter Schedules relate to imported goods and are complementary to similar increases made in excise duties on locally produced goods. . At the time the various tariff proposals implementing these changes were introduced, the nature of the changes was explained at some length. To facilitate honourable members' research for the ensuing debate, I ask leave to incorporate in Hansard details of earlier relevant speeches and there whereabouts in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is supplementary to the Customs Tariff Bill 1974 which I have just introduced: The commencement date for the amendments to Customs Tariff 1966-1973 as provided for in the Customs Tariff Bill 1974 is 1 July, although the amendments were in operation for some time prior to that date. Collections of duty in accordance with those amendments were previously validated up to 30 June 1974, with the exception of amendments contained in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 6 and 7. It is therefore necessary now to formally validate collection of duty under Proposals Nos. 6 and 7 during their period of operation before the commencement of Customs Tariff Bill 1974. 
Accordingly, the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1974 is introduced to validate collections of duty under Proposals Nos. 6 and 7 until 30 June 1974. 1 commend the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I presume that the honourable member will move the adjournment of the debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the amendment of the Customs Act in 3 respects: Rules of origin for goods from New Zealand; rules of origin for goods from developing countries and valuation provisions for imported goods. The rules of origin for goods from New Zealand are being changed by agreement between the 2 countries. The present legislation provides for 3 alternative qualifying criteria for goods partly manufactured in New Zealand: (i) not less than one-half of the factory cost is represented by New Zealand and/or Australian labour and materials; (ii) for goods of a class or kind not manufactured in Australia, not less than one-quarter of the factory cost is represented by New Zealand and/or Australian labour and materials; and (iii) not less than three-quarters of the factory cost is represented by New Zealand and/or Australian and/or United Kingdom labour and materials. 
The amendment relates to the second and third criteria. The second will be replaced by a criterion which would allow the Minister to determine the New Zealand and /or Australian proportion of the factory cost to be a figure above or below the one-half provided in criterion (i), as he deems appropriate. The third criterion is to be deleted since it is clearly no longer in our interests that goods should qualify for New Zealand preference by reason of their United Kingdom content. Parallel legislation will be introduced by the New Zealand Government, providing the same rules for Australian goods entering New Zealand. This portion of the Bill is specified to come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation. The present intention is that the new rules of origin will come into effect in each country on 1 July 1975. 
The amendments to the rules of origin in relation to goods from developing countries are merely textual changes to align the wording of the Customs Act to that of the Customs Tariff. The amendment to section 154 is designed to remedy a deficiency revealed by a recent High Court decision. The section specifies the method of valuing imported goods as the basis of ad valorem customs duties. It provides that the value for duty shall be the higher of the current domestic value in the country of export or the actual money price paid by the Australian importer.The provision for the use of the current domestic value serves as a protection against under-valuation where the money price paid is influenced by association or by some special arrangement between the buyer and the seller. It is defined as the amount for which the seller of the goods to the purchaser in Australia is selling or would be prepared to sell for cash, at the date of exportation of those goods, the same quantity of identically similar goods to any and every purchaser in the country of export for consumption in that country. It has always been believed that the wording of this section allowed the construction of a current domestic value in all cases where the goods are the subject of a sale. The effect of the judgment is to restrict severely the number of cases in which the current domestic value may be constructed where the seller of the goods to Australia is not selling identically similar goods to any and every purchaser in the country of export. The purpose of this amendment is to allow the continued administration of the provision in the way intended when it was introduced in 1922. Honourable members may recall that I announced last month that the Australian customs valuation system was being reviewed. This amendment to section 154 will not affect the review; it is designed merely to allow the Department to continue to administer the present valuation system effectively while the review is proceeding. A summary of the clauses to the Bill is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House amends the Excise Tariff 1921-1973 in accordance with Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 (1974) which I tabled on 23 July last and Excise Tariff Proposals No. 2 ( 1974) tabled on 17 September 1974. The changes contained in Excise Tariff Proposals No. 1 (1974) gave effect to measures which increased the excise duties on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products, and operated on and after 8 o'clock in the evening on 23 July 1974. The changes proposed in Excise Tariff Proposals No. 2 (1974) operated on and after 8 o'clock in the evening on 1 7 September 1974 and increased the excise duties on brandy as a further stage in removing the duty differential between brandy and other potable spirits. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The question is a very important one. It is true that, because of the political situation in the Japanese Diet, producers of meat have a considerable influence in determining the decisions made by the Government. That is not a position with which we are completely unfamiliar in Australia. Consequently restrictions on beef imports have come about in Japan as a result of the political pressures in that country. They are understandable and, from the point of view of the producers in Japan, they would consider them to be justifiable. The Australian 
Government has been concerned about this matter for some considerable time. A very high level group of officials went to Japan, had long discussions with the Japanese and found that they understood our position thoroughly. They were completely sympathetic to it. On every hand they expressed the view that as soon as it was possible for them to do so they would adopt a more liberal policy in respect to meat imports. 
The Government has also taken this matter into account when dealing with the difficulties caused by Japanese imports into Australia- motor cars in particular. We have not wanted to create problems, if we can possible avoid them, by imposing any kind of restrictions on Japanese imports that the Japanese would not readily accept themselves. Consequently discussions with the Japanese about motor cars have been going on for two or three weeks and we are reaching a certain agreement with them. The overall position too is one with which Japan is vitally concerned in maintaining security of supplies of coal and iron ore from Australia. I have made it my business to place before the Japanese the overall common interest that prevails between the two of us, that restrictions should not be applied and that we should endeavour to increase our imports on the longest possible terms of contractual arrangements and in other ways. Certainly when the Japanese Prime Minister comes to Australia this matter will be brought to his notice with all the persuasive ability that we can use. 
The words used by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition are not precisely mine, but anyone who looks at the newspapers these days knows that they are not reporting accurately what is occurring and that they have a responsibility to do so. Everyone knows that the newspapers seek out the sensational aspects of anything. Conflict, confrontation, is more attractive to them. They have been doing that, I think unusually so, in recent weeks. One need not be on one side or other of the House to- 
-I said that the words used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were not my words, but I do not remove anything of my belief that the Press has not been reporting accurately and fairly. I think that any fair judgment of observation of what the newspapers would do would support me in that view. The honourable gentleman talks about scapegoats. The point I have always made about this is that we live in an economy, the main forces of which are outside the direct or indirect control or influence of the Government. This is an economy that fluctuates. It rises to a high point of boom and invariably it descends. The main causes of that movement are in the economy itself. They are outside the scope of this Parliament and they are purely economic. 
-Of course it means that. Secondly, they are international. In the discussion of a matter of public importance in which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition took part the other day, I quoted figures of the inflation rates in other countries and showed that Australia was no different and that- 
The Government is well aware of the difficulties of textile firms in Launceston although there are reports of reemployment in one or two cases and an improvement in their prospects. I think it important for us to bear in mind the possibilities of closedowns and retrenchments but I really do not think that the continuous repetition of these possibilities is of any advantage to industry or anyone else. It is necessary to bear in mind the possibilities but in the last few weeks when I have heard of such and such a company about to close down and have sought to verify that with the company I have found very often no justification for the suggestion. I do not say that this is the case here because I have not verified it but one should take care before saying that an industry is to close down. In his question the honourable member referred also to quotas. I point out that with respect to knitted and woven textiles voluntary quotas imposed under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade- GATT- already operate. They are to fix the limit to the quantity imported in the year ended May 1974. It may be said that that is still too high. The matter is one for the Textile Authority. No government would decide on the imposition of quotas without having a proper investigation. Further textile matters are before the Textile Authority and on receipt of its report appropriate action will be taken. 
It is true that quotas will be much more effective than would be tariffs and under existing circumstances it is doubtful whether any reasonable tariff would have the desired effect. It also has to be pointed out that quotas take time to work. Orders have to be given and letters of credit issued. Unfortunately in this matter there was a great deal of overbuying and stocks are accumulating already. These are bound to limit and curtail orders in the future. But whatever action is taken there is always a certain amount of lag and so the Government tends to regard the method of direct assistance through the principles on which the Structural Adjustment Board is established as the best way of dealing with the specific cases like Launceston. It seems to me that it is through that means that the most positive action can come. 
-I am very glad now that there is complete unanimity on both sides of this chamber on this matter. It is not so long since a distinguished former Prime Minister of this country said that Australia had been lying on its back like a puppy having its stomach tickled by every investor from overseas. It is not very long since  Sir John  McEwen, the distinguished former Leader of the Australian Country Party, said that a bit of the farm was being sold out every day and that Australia was going to end up as a series of holes when all resources had been drawn out. This was a fair summary of foreign investment policy under the Opposition parties when they were the Government. This was a fair summary of their policy for over 20 years- the selling out of Australia without concern for equity, without concern for the joint operations which the Leader of the Opposition has now embraced as his policy. I am very glad we are unanimous about this now. We have reached this stage as a result of a great deal of work done over a period of years in this Parliament in awakening the Australian community to the great importance of these principles. So now we are in agreement. 
On my forthcoming journey overseas, if that should take place, I intend to go to New York and to Washington. I want to find out what is happening about the flow of funds from the oil importing countries to the oil exporting countries. It is clear that some $80,000m to $90,000m in a year will be moving from the oil importing countries to the oil exporting countries. Most of that money will be returned by way of reinvestment. The money available from these sources is not offered at high interest rates. By way of interjection a moment ago, the honourable member for Blaxland, said that the Leader of the Opposition obviously knows nothing about what he calls Arab money if he thinks it is lent at high interest. It is not lent at high interest at all. 
-It is long term. I would be very happy to see our own banking system, our own financial system, being much more alive to these possibilities, because while there are groups of people going all around the country offering $100m, $200m, or $l,000m and sometimes sums greater than that at low rates of interest, and while there may or may not be anything in their offers they have not been adequately followed up. My purpose is to have a look at the situation in the United States just to see where these funds are flowing to and to ascertain whether there can be more expedition in the provision of them both to Australian private investors and to bodies like the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The policy of the Government has been quite clear on this matter. It was made abundantly clear at the ministerial conference in Japan last year. A great deal of publicity has been given to it and it is just no good any longer the Leader of the Opposition or anyone else saying that there is no clarity about this matter. Australia welcomes overseas investment in this country on a partnership basis in a way that will safeguard equity and will maximise Australian ownership and control in every area. The position is clear and it has always been clear that this Government welcomes overseas investment in Australia on conditions which will safeguard, protect and increase Australian ownership and control of the operations in which the investment takes place. 
The answer to the question is no. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on diesel engines exceeding 1500kw, dated 15 August 1974, of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I have seen some report of a suggestion by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party about a supplementary Budget. Of course, from time to time I have seen a number of points that he has made concerning things that he would like the Government to consider. In fact, I have been involved in discussions with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions- who happens to be the same person- on a number of occasions and I am very familiar with these proposals. We assured the ACTU that we would give very full consideration to what has been submitted to us by the unions and by the ACTU. Everyone will realise that the cooperation between the Government and the unions is a vital matter in the implementation of economic policy today. We are glad to have those proposals from the ACTU and they will, of course, receive our full and adequate consideration. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked me whether I support or reject these proposals. I agree with a good many of them. There are things that I disagree with here and there but I am not going to use question time now to discuss the proposals. He asked me whether there are any new initiatives. Of course there are. The Government has, all the way through, considered economic circumstances that prevail in the country and it has arrived at matters to implement as policy which are appropriate to those circumstances. Where and when those circumstances change, as they have changed, the Government of course has been prepared to introduce changed measures appropriate to the new situations. The Prime Minister pointed out that we have gone through a period that can adequately be called demand inflation. There is every evidence that that has now been substantially eliminated. I have mentioned before the opinion of qualified economists like Professor Swan of the Australian National University that as a result of appreciation alone the price increase that has prevailed in Australia in the last 12 months is probably 10 per cent less than otherwise it would have been. The Prime Minister pointed out that we are now in a period that can be more adequately described as cost push inflation. He has pointed out that this situation requires a different thrust of policy. It will be the purpose of the Government to introduce measures at the appropriate time to meet that situation. 
It is quite an amazing question. I think it is typical of quite a number of comments that happen to be coming from the Opposition these days. No matter what the evidence any suggestion, no matter how reprehensible, will be made about the security not only of private but also of a public institution such as AIDC. I think it ill becomes the member who has no evidence whatever to support the kind of suggestion he made to broadcast it all over Australia during the course of question time. 
-I assure the Leader of the Australian Country Party that I get on very well with  Mr Hogan  and that the summary with respect to the spirit of the discussions that I had with him was quite accurate. We discussed the possible effect of a price increase in superphosphate. I said that I would give serious consideration to anything that was possible to be done to assist farmers to acquire superphosphate and that among other things we would consider the position of the superphosphate bounty. As the Leader of the Country Party knows, there is a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission which, although fairly narrow, will allow the Government to take into account the report the Commission makes in general. I would say that nothing is likely to be done on this matter until we receive the report. However, the Prime Minister has recently stated the importance of developments of new inititatives in relation to rural policy. We have recently received a report from a committee of inquiry- a Green Paper committee on agriculture. That is being studied with a view to arriving at methods of assisting the farming industry. As soon as those decisions have been fully processed announcements will be made, probably by the Prime Minister. 
-I know the honourable gentleman is a great expert in prognosis and in platitudes with which he very often entertains this House. Once he gets down to facts he is a much more interesting person. He generally does it outside the House. If the honourable gentleman is suggesting that inflation at 13 per cent will continue to the year 2000, no doubt the prognostications mentioned by the Treasurer would be accurate. He and I both know that inflation will not continue at the rate of 13 per cent to the year 2000. 
I do not intend to take up question time stating opinions. The honourable gentleman has just quoted what he called a 'couple of opinions'. There is room for differences of view about the economic situation but I am waiting to see a constructive view come from the Opposition which can be useful to the Government and can be appropriate to the situation. There may be room for differences of opinion. Everyone is aware of the complexity of the present situation and of the unwillingness of people all around the world to apply the conventional type of policy to inflation. In every country situated similarly to Australia the same kind of debate that is going on here is going on there. No particular individual, whether he be on the 
Opposition side or the Government side, has any prerogative to think that he knows all. There is far too much of a practice, I think, of those people who think they know everything spending a lot of time telling those who really do. 
Yes, it is true that in 1949 the then Opposition, led by Robert Menzies, did put forward a policy to put value back into the pound. It is true that in 1951-52 we had the highest rate of inflation that ever occurred in Australia- an annual rate of over 20 per cent for 2 years. It is true that in those years, just as in 1953-54, inflation came to Australia as the result of a vast increase in the money demand for our exports. In that year it was predominantly wool. This time it was right across the board. There was an increase of over $2,000m in the money demand for Australian exports in 1952. There was a fall in that year in almost every one of those commodities owing to depressed conditions in the year before and so there was a vast increase in money demand and an actual fall in the supply of goods. These basic economic facts are hardly ever taken into account in the attempt by the Opposition to understand inflation. The situation then in 1951-52 was exactly the same except that it was more extreme and more severe and the Government itself in those days did very little about it. On the other hand, when this Government faced this situation it immediately appreciated the currency, which reduced the impact of the high foreign demand on the Australian economy and the inflow of the capital and thereby, as I said in answer to an earlier question, it probably had the effect of reducing prices by as much as 10 per cent in 1954. 
'NOONGAH' FUND 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a major step in the development of facilities for Australian exporters and the strengthening of our commercial relations with overseas countries, particularly developing countries and the centrally planned economies. Under this Bill, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, known as EPIC and established under the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1973, will be reconstituted as the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation to operate as an export financing institution as well as a credit and investment insurer and guarantor. EPIC has acquired an enormous range of experience in this field and it is most logical that the development of a financing institution be in close association with it. In particular, the new export bank function will facilitate the provision of export finance for medium and long term credit sales of machinery and capital equipment, and the establishment of lines of credit, especially to developing countries and state trading organisations. In performing this function, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation will supplement, not supplant, the medium and long term export financing facilities provided by existing Australia financial institutions, principally the trading banks. In addition, the Bill proposes to broaden the eligibility criteria of the overseas investment insurance scheme and to bring Papua New Guinea within the scope of the scheme. 
The Government's decision to amend the charter of EPIC to enable it to function as an export financing institution was announced in August 1973. It is a logical extension of the successive amendments which have been made over the years to the charter of EPIC to extend and improve the range of operation of its facilities for the benefit of Australian exporters. EPIC is already combining to some extent the functions of insurer and banker in its buyer credit and guarantee operations and has considerable experience, expertise and standing in the field of international trade and finance. The ability of exporters to obtain finance for credit sales to overseas buyers, and the nature of the credit arrangements they can offer, have assumed an increasing significance in world trading in recent years, particularly in respect of machinery and capital equipment. Most industrialised countries with which Australia competes in the export of machinery and capital equipment have special government supported export finance facilities designed to ensure that their exporters have access to medium and long term credit on internationally competitive terms and conditions. There is clear evidence that significant export opportunities are being lost in this field because of the absence in Australia of export financing facilities similar to those provided in such countries as the United States of America, Canada, Japan and Britain. For some time, Australian manufacturers have emphasised that with competition in world markets becoming more intense, facilities of this kind have become essential to enable them successfully to compete in overseas markets, particularly in developing countries and centrally planned economies. These representations have been supported by EPIC, the Trade Development Council, the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association and other national industry organisations. 
Following a detailed review of export finance facilities in Australia and overseas, it is proposed that the export finance functions of the new Export Finance and Insurance Corporation will be as follows: (i) the provision of finance to facilitate the export of machinery and capital equipment- wholly or mainly manufactured in Australia- and associated services involving credit terms especially, but not only, in excess of 5 years; (ii) in fulfilling (i) above, lend to exporters or to overseas buyers/borrowers, particularly for business with developing countries and state trading organisations; (iii) act as agent for the Government in cases involving the 'national interest'; and (iv) in setting its lending term and conditions, the Corporation will seek to match, but not lead, competition from overseas government supported export finance institutions. For the purpose of the Corporation's export finance operations, machinery and capital equipment will mean those goods and equipment which are customarily regarded as capital goods and equipment in international trade, and will include, where applicable, costs incurred and services rendered in the buyer's country in connection with a capital project. The main provisions relating to the export finance business of the Corporation are set out in clauses 36 to 41 of the Bill. 
I should emphasise that the new Corporation has been designed to take its place alongside and supplement the existing facilities provided by Australian financial institutions. In fulfilling the functions that have been set out, the Export 
Finance and Insurance Corporation will not engage in the wide range of services normally carried out by the trading banks, such as the provision of short term export finance which constitutes the great bulk of demand for export finance. Accordingly, it is provided in the charter of the Corporation that it should only provide finance where, in its opinion, this is desirable and the finance would not otherwise be available on reasonable terms and conditions. It is also considered that the Corporation should, wherever practicable, endeavour to seek the participation by existing financial instiutions as much as possible in providing export finance on appropriate terms and conditions. The safeguards written into the Bill, to ensure that the Corporation does not compete with the trading banks in their normal and traditional fields of banking services for exporters, fulfil assurances given by the Government to the trading banks on this matter. Quite extensive discussions have taken place with trading bank representatives as well as with representatives of the normal export trading organisations. I emphasise that the operations of the Corporation can be expected to create additional export business for the trading banks. 
The ability of the Corporation to provide export finance facilities comparable with those overseas will depend- when, as at present, domestic commercial rates are higher than the concessional rates offered by overseas government supported export banking institutions- on funds being provided at an effective cost which is less than domestic commercial rates. Accordingly, the Government considers that the Corporation should be provided with funds from the Budget at a rate of interest that will enable it to compete with overseas export finance institutions. A clear indication of the subsidy element involved will be shown in the annual Budget papers. No additional capital is required to enable the Corporation to perform the functions of an export financing institution. The new Corporation will be able to use, within limits, the existing capital and reserves of EPIC to assist in financing exports. However, the primary source of funds will be borrowings from the Budget. 
It is not possible to predict accurately the funding requirements for the export bank functions of the Corporation. However, on the basis of the functions outlined above, approximately $50m could be required progressively during the first 3 years of operation. An amount of $5m has been allocated in the 1974-75 Budget. Within the framework of this, once possessed of its funds, the Corporation will conduct its business on sound commercial principles, that is, it will exercise normal business skill and prudence in the performance of its operations. The Corporation will determine the terms and conditions, including rates of interest, upon which loans from its funds shall be made. It will also seek to charge the highest rates of interest as are practicable, with due regard to the need to provide finance on terms and conditions comparable with those available to foreign competitors for the business involved. 
The Government considers that in the initial stages of its operations, the Corporation should be required to submit concessional loan transactions to the Government for consideration. In the case of transactions with developed countries at concessional interest rates, approval to the provision of the necesssary finance will be given only where the Government is satisfied that the financing of a particular transaction would be of material assistance to the establishment or maintenance of an export market, to the development of an Australian industry or to the maintenance of employment in a particular industry or area in Australia. As with the existing 'national interest' provisions of the EPIC Act, this Bill provides for the referral of applications for export finance to the Government for consideration in the 'national interest' in cases where the Corporation is either not authorised to accept the business on its own account or in the exercise of its commercial judgment would not do so. All propositions approved in the 'national interest' will be financed out of funds to be provided by the Government to the Corporation for this purpose as and when required. Such transactions will be segregated in the Corporation's accounts from its normal commercial transactions. 
I turn now to the proposed legislative amendments to the overseas investment insurance scheme. These amendments were foreshadowed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 22 January 1974 in announcing a new Australian Government policy on private Australian overseas direct investment, especially in developing countries. The relevant provisions are set out in clauses 27 to 33 of the Bill. The overseas investment insurance scheme was established by amendment to the EPIC Act in 1965. The present eligibility criteria of the scheme restrict insurance cover to those investments which provide export benefits to Australia and which assist in the production or marketing of goods in the overseas country. In addition, as the scheme now stands, investments in Papua New Guinea are specifically excluded from the scope of the scheme. In accordance with the Government's policy of strengthening its economic relations with developing countries, particularly in its neighbouring regions, the Bill proposes that the eligibility criteria of the overseas investment insurance scheme be broadened to cover all new worthwhile direct investments which can assist in the economic and social development of an overseas country and where it is in Australia's national interest that insurance be given. Also, in recognition of Papua New Guinea's expressed desire for increased Australian investment to further its social and economic development plans, it is proposed to extend the scope of the overseas investment insurance scheme to cover new eligible investments in Papua New Guinea. All new investments made on or after 22 January 1974 will be eligible for consideration under the expanded scheme. 
The Bill also provides that the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation may participate in this class of business where it is prepared to do so and subject to ministerial approval. At present, while the overseas investment insurance scheme is administered by EPIC, the decision to cover a particular investment and any contingent liability arising therefrom are the responsibility of the Government. The power to issue ministerial directions, which already exists under the present legislation, will enable Government policies, for example, on economic relations with particular countries, to be reflected in investment insurance decisions undertaken by the Corporation. In view of the responsibilities of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation embodied in this Bill, it is considered that the Corporation should be a body corporate under the control and management of a board. As indicated in the Bill, the Board will comprise a chairman, a deputy chairman, the managing director, the deputy managing director and not more than 7 other members. The members of the Board will be appointed on the basis of their knowledge and experience in the fields of export, manufacture, commerce and finance. 
The Bill provides for the staff of EPIC to be transferred to the new Corporation without loss of their existing rights or privileges. The Bill makes it clear that the Minister is removed from matters of day-to-day administration of the Corporation. The relationship between the Minister and the Corporation is clearly defined in the Bill. The relevant clauses parallel the existing provisions of the EPIC Act. In framing the Bill, the opportunity has also been taken to re-draft some of the provisions of the EPIC Act in accordance with comparable recent statutory authority legislation. As with EPIC, the Government has been concerned to provide maximum autonomy for the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation consistent with the necessary measure of Government control over broad policy. The measures proposed in the BUI demonstrate the Government's positive and constructive approach to export policy and its commitment to adopt a co-operative and creative role in encouraging Australian investment overseas, particularly in developing countries. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to (4) See the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 41 (Hansard of 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 43) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of two major steel mill projects being considered for Indonesia, namely: 
Reports early this year indicated that as pan of Japan's overseas economic co-operation a proposed integrated steel plant costing some $A600 millions over ten years was being examined by Nippon Steel Corporation, Mitsui and Co. and Marubeni. 
No further details are available as yet. 
Australian and Dutch interests have been examining the possibility of bringing into operation a partly built Russian plant located at Cilegon. The plant was supplied about 10 years ago and could possibly form the basis for a 2 million tonne per annum mill. 
A West German consortium headed by Ferrostaal Ag. and working in conjunction with the Indonesian state owned steel firm P. T. Krakatau are proceeding with a firm proposal to establish this plant with an initial capacity of 500,000 tonnes of rolled products. The plant is scheduled for completion in 1976. Financing of the project is apparently being handled by an international banking consortium. 
In addition to these major schemes the Indonesian Government has approved many mini mill steel projects. 
It is quite possible that Australian iron ore would be supplied to these major projects if they eventuate. Some coking coal may also be required from Australia, but natural gas and steaming coal from Indonesia's vast resources could be expected to figure prominently in the fuelling plans. 
3 ) In addition to the Australian group directly involved in the Cilegon project several other Australian firms are understood to be in close touch with the principals. As these commercial negotiations are still in their early stages details have not been announced by the parties concerned. The Department of Overseas Trade and the Australian Trade officials in Jakarta are providing every assistance to firms wishing to be associated with these ventures. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) There have been no exercises of this type conducted by the Department of Overseas Trade during the past 18 months. Following occupation of the new Trade Group Offices in Canberra evacuation procedures are being developed and will be tested when completed. 
Yes. In this context I refer the right honourable member to pan 3 of  Mr Whitlam  's answer to Question No. 548 which appeared in Hansard on 19 September 1974, page 1621. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on the Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2), the. Customs Tariff Bill Validation Bill (No. 2) and the Excise Tariff Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's economic policies are formulated within the frame work of Australia living as a member of the western world's economic and political community. As such" government policies are constrained by the activities of the rest of the world and by the desire of the overwhelming majority of Australians to live within the present democratic free enterprise framework. 
World inflation was building up as early as the mid 1960s with the United States involvement in Vietnam leading to an American balance of payments deficit which added to the reserves of the rest of the world. This situation was subsequently exacerbated by all countries simultaneously refloating after the breakdown of the Smithonian Agreement in 1971 when there appeared to be a danger of a serious loss of business confidence. The reflation together with a number of crop failures and other developments affecting commodities led to the 'commodity boom' and inflation was further fuelled by the rise in oil prices at the end of 1973 and beginning of 1974. Demand inflation has recently steadily given way to cost inflation as trade unions have striven to maintain and increase their real incomes in the face of past and anticipated inflation. 
Unemployment is a by-product of the fall-off in world demand which is occurring simultaneously with inflation. It is partly caused by Governments acting to restrain the overheating of their economies- a feature of which is inflationand is aggravated by balance of payments problems resulting from the oil price rise. 
Governments can follow deflationary monetary and fiscal policies in the hope that unemployment will reduce inflation. From the analyses of other economies it is clear that such policies have either ceased to work or work only with very high levels of unemployment. We would therefore regard massive deflation and monetary restrictions as highly irresponsible. We could also through the use of tariffs attempt to increase domestic employment or 'export unemployment'; this sort of beggar-thy-neighbour policy if followed by all countries would, as in the 1930s, rapidly lead to a collapse of world trade. 
The Government's strategy is to deal with unemployment and inflation in a way which minimises hardship to all concerned and which does not involve the adoption of irresponsible or draconian measures. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
During the last 18 months, building evacuation exercises have been conducted on the following occasions: 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
No moneys have been paid by the Department of Customs and Excise during the past five years to voluntary organisations for the establishment or maintenance of federal headquarters. Also there is no record of a request for financial support being received during that period. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is notorious for his exaggeration but he has become notorious in the last few months for very careless exaggeration. He speaks continuously in this House without giving anyone else any credit at all. He continually sees no good in anyone else but himself and his capacity to see good in himself is astonishing. Continuously his self love exudes itself around this Parliament and around this country, but fortunately it is not shared by very many people, as the public opinion polls show. I would have much more faith in what he has to say if he were prepared to give somebody else just a little bit of credit. 
This afternoon we have heard from him a small edition of what we heard last night. Industry is depressed, he said. The truth is that some parts of industry are depressed and some parts are not. Industry is important, he said. Of course industry is important; industry is important for reasons of employment, for reasons of welfare and for reasons of exports. It is important for all the reasons that he said. Anyone from the Government side of the House, concerned as we are for the maintenance of employment and the living standards of the Australian people, will recognise that it is primarily through private industry, where three-quarters of the Australian work force are employed, that employment and living standards are maintained. The Leader of the Opposition says that it is solely because of this Government's decisions that everything has gone wrong. That is what he says; that is the essence of it. 
-The interjections around the House confirm what I have had to say about what the Leader of the Opposition said. But that is a ridiculous, inadequate explanation of what has occurred. What has happened in Australia is the result of an economic process, and that economic process is worldwide. Unemployment is rising in Australia and it is high. Unemployment is high everywhere else. (Opposition members interjecting) 
-Unemployment in Australia is at an actual figure of 2.5 per cent, adjusted 3.2 per cent. Comparable figures today in other parts of the world are: Canada, 5.3 per cent; United States of America, 6 per cent; the Federal Republic of Germany, 3.8 per cent; the United Kingdom, 4 per cent; Italy, 4.5 per cent; and Japan, where the figure has doubled in the last quarter, 2 per cent. I have been in half a dozen countries where the unemployment rate is more than 15 per cent. I have seen the effects of unemployment. I have seen industries that are in difficulties in Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong- the textile, electronics and building industries. They are in exactly the same situation as they are in here, except that in some of those countries unemployment is more than 10 per cent and people are starving in the streets. Unemployment is serious if only half a dozen people are out of work. But from a national point of view and an international point of view unemployment in Australia is trivial in comparison with unemployment in other countries- absolutely trivial. 
We have heard a lot about growth. There are official Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development figures relating to growth. We have been told that industry in Australia is terribly depressed. Some sections of industry are in difficulty; others are not. But the official OECD forecasts of growth for 1975 indicate these rates of growth: Canada 2% per cent; the United States of America, minus  Vh  per cent; Japan, 2 per cent; France, 3 per cent; the Federal Republic of Germany, 1V4 per cent; Holland, minus  Va  per cent; United Kingdom, 1 per cent; New Zealand, 3 per cent; and in Australia, 2% per cent. Australia is in a good condition compared with any other country mentioned in that table. In the last month the car industry in the United States has retrenched 102,000 people. The Fiat company has retrenched 70,000, the Audi company in Germany 30,000, and the Volkswagen company in Germany, 14,000. 
Retrenchments are far more extensive than in Australia, both absolutely and proportionately. 
If one examines these unemployment and growth figures and conditions in those particular industries, one sees that the position that the Leader of the Opposition spoke about as though it was only an Australian condition caused by the Australian Government is actually a world wide situation. It is part of an economic process. The Australian Government is not the cause. I should not think that even the Leader of the Opposition would suggest that the Australian Government is the cause of the retrenchment of 102,000 workers in the American automotive industry or that the Australian Government is the cause of 10 per cent unemployment in Hong Kong, S.3 per cent in Canada, and 6 per cent in the United States of America. The Australian Government is not the cause of that situation. What is happening is a world-wide process and, as everyone in the outside world realises, it is a more serious economic difficulty than the world has experienced for nearly half a century. Unless a person is capable of realising that this is an international problem he will never come up with a policy or action capable of dealing with it. 
This is a world-wide problem, but the Australian Government can do something both to moderate inflation and to prevent unemployment. How can we moderate inflation? Although inflation is running at 20 per cent, the Leader of the Opposition never mentioned it in his speech. Is he not concerned about inflation or is he concerned only to exaggerate unemployment and blame the Australian Government for all of it as though it exists only in this country and nowhere else? Inflation has to be understood before it can be dealt with. Inflation is the excess of income demand for goods over the supply of goods. Income demand rose in Australia in 1971-72 because of international factors. There was a great inflow of funds from overseas. Exports rose by $2,000m and capital inflow by $3,000m and on the basis of that situation there was a great credit expansion in Australia which the Leader of the Opposition, at that time the Treasurer, did nothing to restrain. There was an inflationary boom. 
Inflation is not an accident; it is understandable. Incomes, demand and money had to be regulated if inflation was to be reduced but for 18 months the previous Government did nothing, desperate as it was to win back the support it had lost under the McMahon-Snedden coalition. It went along with inflation. It allowed the Mainlines to boom. It allowed these pyramids, which are based on very little cash, to inflate land values and put up building costs enormously. It allowed the inflationary boom to be released in Australia and did nothing to deal with it. 
Would  Mr Snedden  have rejected any kind of credit squeeze? Would he have allowed that inflationary boom to continue forever? And what about the professor of economics, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  who sits on the front bench? Is he against any kind of credit restriction in an inflationary period like that? Would he have done nothing to restrict credit? I know that some honourable members opposite are interested in another kind of squeeze, but I am talking about monetary policy. Would they not have done anything to increase imports with the great shortage of goods? Would they have done nothing to appreciate the value of the Australian dollar? If these things had not been done by this Government- they were radical policies in Australia's history- inflation would have been 10 per cent greater than it is now. If inflation is to be checked in circumstances like that- unfortunately it had to be done 18 months or 2 years later than it should have been done- some depression of industry and some unemployment unfortunately must occur. What the Government does about depression in industry and unemployment is to end it here and now. I emphasise that this is a matter of judgment. 
The honourable member has never shown much judgment. If reflation starts too soon we will get back into inflation and more unemployment. The Australian Government has begun reflation and no other government in comparable countries has gone as far as we have gone. Certainly the reflation can be more precise. I do not say that our policy is perfect. Last night I think the Leader of the Opposition made some useful remarks about monetary policy, but what is he doing? He is refusing or failing to analyse inflation and unemployment because he wants to attribute them to the fault of the Government. He sees no further than that. He is claiming that the Government is solely responsible and therefore he has no adequate analysis of unemployment and inflation. He has no idea of what causes them if he thinks the Government has caused them. If he has no idea of what causes inflation he cannot produce a policy to deal with it. In fact, he is offering a policy that may be inflationary, particularly on the monetary side. Presumably he would reduce taxation by a great deal more than we have done but one does not have to get past the first chapter of any economics text book- the Leader of the Opposition has at least seen the cover of one- to know that if a reduction of taxation goes too far it is a significant inflationary factor. It is a matter of judgment and no one here or elsewhere has any claim that his judgment is perfect. 
I think his policy, insofar as it differs from ours, is unacceptable on the expenditure side. He keeps on bleating: 'Cut government expenditure'. But cut it where? Whenever we ask him he runs for cover. We hear the cry: 'Cut it by 8 per cent here and 8 per cent there'. We know what would be the consequences of a policy of this kind. Government expenditure cannot be cut significantly without cutting expenditure on education, health and well being. That is no way to deal with the problem of inflation, unemployment or anything else. Labor will not cut the standards of the people in social security, health and welfare because of economic pressures. We have suffered too much from this depression mentality- from this prescription for tragedy- to take it over now. 
There was no mention by the Leader of the Opposition of wages or industrial relations. Presumably he does not see this as any kind of factor in the unemployment or inflationary situation. He asks us for a wages policy, but what sort of wages policy does the Leader of the Opposition have? He does not express any opinions one way or the other about indexation. He does not seem to be aware of the fact that in countries where there has been a reasonable kind of relationship between the trade union movement and the government, inflation is less than it is elsewhere. He does not seem to be able to realise the importance of this significant attempt to reach what is called a social contract between the workers and the Government. He does not know that the indices of increases in the cost of living are lower where that has been achieved. I know what would happen if the Leader of the Opposition were the Prime Minister and the government were drawn from the other side of the House; there would be a confrontation with the trade union movement. We are unhappy about any kind of industrial stoppage or any kind of strike. Nobody wants them. Their incidence is too high in Australia today. But if the Government was changed, the incidence of stoppages and strikes would double within a quarter because a government drawn from the Opposition would adopt a policy of wage freeze. It would go back to the penal powers. We would have trade union leaders in goal. We would have a confrontation which would wrack this country from one end to the other. It is already happening in other places. 
There is an insurrection in the streets in Italy. People in those countries have grave doubts about the future. 
-I would be keeping it in order, and I would not be getting any help from you. My role in insurrections in this country is to make them peaceful, and it always has been. I have never had any help from you to try to make them peaceful. 
I can claim without any exaggeration to have done far more to keep order in the streets in this country than all of you combined. 
You were responsible for the mess by sending young Australians to Vietnam. Almost every young Australian in this country was against the former Government because of that. 
We came out of Vietnam and we have peace in that respect in this country. That is why it happened. The Parties opposite were responsible for that- you who were not game to go yourselves but were willing to send everybody else. 
I say that if we had any change of government here, the conditions that the Leader of the Opposition has criticised and has the right to criticisewe should take full note of his criticismwould be doubled in their intensity in the space of a quarter. You would not get any reduction in unemployment; you would get an increase in unemployment under a government drawn from the other side of the House. You would not get any less inflation; you would get more inflation because every prescription that honourable members opposite have given to us in their policy is an inflationary prescription likely also to produce unemployment. Conditions in Australia are difficult. But they are easier and better in this country than in any other comparable country. There is not one person in this country who is not considerably better off than he was a year or 2 years ago, of course, with some exceptions. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I said today. 
It cannot be emphasised enough that the overriding need is for policies which tackle both inflation and unemployment. Policies directed at one of these problems which neglect the other will not constitute a long run solution to either. That is why it is so important to give quick relief to the private sector activity to provide early relief to the unemployment situation, but at the same time to attack cost inflation and slow down public sector expansion. 
The Deputy Prime Minister said that in government I did nothing to restrain inflation. My record was that I reduced - 
I rise to take a point of order. This is debating. It is not a personal explanation. He has already had an hour and a half to talk. 
I rise on a point of order in this - 
The  speaker  to follow can correct this matter if he has to correct it. This is the practice in the House. One does not get up and go through a previous speech to correct every point that one thinks might be relevant. 
Did you do less than nothing? 

 -Mr Speaker, he will be followed by another  speaker  who can put these points if they are correct: 
There is no misrepresentation. What you mean and what I mean are at least debatable. 

 - Mr Speaker, I think this has gone far enough. How many speeches does he want to make in the same day? If you want to have it corrected, you do it through the Leader of the Country Party who is to follow in the debate. 
I can imagine what it would be like if you were there. 
The honourable member has provided correspondence for me showing the interest of people in South Australia in trade with the oil exporting countries and I have seen additional evidence of that from other parts of Australia, indicating the desire of Australians to trade in this area and at the same time the vast opportunities that are available because about $60,000m will be surplus to normal trading requirements of the oil exporting countries. This is not only making a great potential market; it has also at the same time dislocated the international flow of investment, which is one of the significant causes of the world wide economic recession today- far more than is the increase in the price of oil. These conditions and problems I think deserve very careful examination by Australia. I think the suggestion that we should have a business mission working in this area is a good one. We have a first rate ambassador in Jedda,  Mr Haig.  There is a small party of officials- two or three- from my own Department there at the moment. When we have reports from these people I would then be quite prepared to receive any evidence of interest and any requests from business people who desire to go on a mission to this area. If necessary and desirable I would be quite pleased to go with them. I will have the matter attended to and we will see what can be done. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 1 7 ( 1 974) 
On 30 October the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on steam, gas and water fittings. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 17 which I have just tabled give effect to the tariff changes arising from the Government's decision. The effect of this decision is that a rate of 20 per cent will apply to tube and pipe fittings of copper and nickel and their alloys and minimum rates of duty will apply to similar fittings of lead, tin and zinc and their alloys. A rate of 25 per cent will apply to the actuators and valves specified in the Commission's recommendations. This rate will apply also to aerosol valves. The existing provisions on other valves will not be varied, excepting that the common 25 per cent rate will apply from 22 November 1977. The new rates operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes and the duty rates is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Aboriginal Loans Commission Bill 1974 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both the Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have no intention of making a long answer to such a trivial question. The right honourable gentleman, who purports to be a potential Prime Minister of this country, began by asking me a question in which he said he was quoting me exactly and that I had said that unemployment in Australia was absolutely trivial. He then referred to Hansard and he by doing so showed that he left out of what he said over and over again in all that long preliminary that you,  Mr Speaker,  regarded as so long to be almost inadmissable and what he in fact quoted from Hansard- that is, that I was saying that unemployment in Australia was trivial compared with most other countries, and that is exactly what I did say. I did not say that unemployment in Australia was trivial. From the point of view of Australia and the Australian people who are out of work, unemployment is not trivial, can never be trivial. 
-I did say that and you quoted it from Hansard. You gave yourself away by quoting it, which shows how incapable you are of doing anything straight. I do not know whether it comes from your advisers or whether you do it all yourself but it would be a miracle for me to make up my mind which it is because you perform exactly the same way every day of the week. 
The honourable gentleman must have heard the urgency motion moved last week, which is being repeated today in another form. But there has been considerable progress on the Opposition side. Last week it was ignoring, dismissing, giving no credence whatever to the possibility that anything that happened outside Australia could possibly have affected Australia. Last week it was only the Government; the Government alone was the cause of it all. This week in another urgency motion the Opposition is saying that I am exaggerating in saying that external forces have had any effect at all. I am not going to take up too much of question time except to bring out that contrast and to say: Listen in for the urgency motion and get the full story. 
In entering this debate the thing that strikes me the most is the ease with which speakers from the other side of the House openly accuse those of us on this side of the House of an immoral and corrupt attitude. The honourable gentleman says that we are doing something that is wrong. We could be wrong. But he goes on to say that we are deliberately doing this to deceive and to confuse the debate. He finds somewhere in us a significant moral fault. He thinks and argues that we are morally corrupt. I do not think it is necessary to conduct a debate using that language. I am constantly aware of it easily tripping off the tongue of people on the other side of the House who pretend to have a right to be a Minister. Frankly, I have had enough of it and I do not intend to enter into that kind of debate. 
We are debating an alternative view of the Australian economy at the moment. The Opposition is trying to say that what is happening in Australia today is almost alone the result of something that is occurring in Australia and that there is some influence from outside. It was only today that the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  the shadow Minister at the table, was prepared to make that admission. He says that there is some influence, but not much. What is happening here, he has argued all the way through his speech, is the result of something that is only Australian. When we look inside Australia to try to find what that is, he is saying that it is simply Government policy, that nothing else is of importance in Australia but the Government. This political analysis, which ignores all the economic factors, is a dangerous analyis because it is hiding from the spokesmen of the Opposition as well as from those who lead the Opposition all that an analysis can tell them. On top of that not only is he saying it is the fault of the Government but also that the Government is deliberately doing this to deceive the people. He finds that moral fault and that corruption in the Government. I do not think that kind of approach helps in the solution of this problem at all. 
Today, in 1 974, if there is any outstanding feature of the world economy, it is interdependence and interrelationship. Today we are part of a world economy and when something happens on the other side of the earth, particularly in a nation like the United States, it is not long before it is transferred round the world. When something happens in one part of the world which controls the greater part of the world's energy resources, as does the Middle East, it is not long before it is transferred all round the world. Today we live in a world which is one world and which is one economic system. Not only are those things transferred from one country to another but also we have the same kinds of systems. We have an economic organisation which is the same as that in the United States and in Western Europe. 
I have just recently been in 1 1 countries and perhaps I have had the opportunity, which is denied to the spokesman for the Opposition, of finding out what people in other parts of the world think. I find that they, in analysing their own economic situation in the United States or in Western Europe, are using exactly the same terms as we use here. I will quote just a few. If the honourable gentleman would like to find a precis of the comments he will find it in 'Newsweek' of 30 September 1974. The statements I intend looking at are representative of the comments of some of the leading minds in the world looking at the same economic problems as we look at. What did they find? George Meany,  President  of the American Federation of Labor- Congress of Industrial Organisations says: 
The most important single step the United States can take to improve the international economic picture is to solve its own economic mess. It must be remembered that one shot actions can compound world wide problems . . . 
America and the free world have very great capital needs Tor housing, business expansion and public services, and these legitimate needs should not be forced to compete for capital with gambling casinos. 
Similarly, we have long called for strict regulation of the commodity speculators . . . 

 Mr Meany says that the 'paper' deals of the commodity speculators have had tremendous world wide consequences. He continued: 
The United States must solve its own economic problems before it attempts to solve the world economic problems. 

 Mr Meany is really saying here that this is a world situation, that the United States has a crucial situation in it, that the United States has to act in certain ways if the world problem is to be solved and that the solution is long term. 
-Just a moment. I will tell the honourable member of the statements of a few people who are not trade unionists. There is Saburo Okita, of the Japan Overseas Cooperation Fund, and a leading spokesman in Japan. He says: 
Since we are faced with global inflation in which one country's excessive control could affect other countries, it takes global co-operation to attack the problem. 
Through what  Mr Okita  says is the basic assumption, which in every country but this is taken as the obvious truth, that we are dealing with a world situation and that we need first of all multi-national co-operation to solve it. But no mention of this ever comes from the Opposition. Opposition members are not concerned to ascertain even what is being said and done in other parts of the world. They are simply concerned to say that everything that is happening in this country is being caused by the Labor Government. 
That is all they want to do. They want nothing but policies, not economic analysis. '  Mr Garland-  A deliberate untruth. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would prefer that he be ignored. 
-I refer next to Ernst Mommsen, the  chairman  of Krupp in Germany, not a trade union leader, I hope honourable members opposite will notice, who says: 
The prevention of a world wide recession is the task of the surplus countries. They have to take care that their economic growth does not decline. Efforts should even be made to raise the present growth rates ... 
Here Mommsen,  chairman  of Krupp, is pointing out that this is a world problem and it cannot be solved simply by thinking in national terms. Pierre-Paul Schweitzer,  chairman  of the Bank of America in Luxembourg, says: 
The monetary crisis preceded the oil crisis and to some extent was perhaps responsible for it. I think it's urgent that we return to some kind of international monetary order. 
All the time in these areas in other parts of the world, the leading economic thinkers are stressing the significance of the economic aspects of this situation and are saying that an individual country can do practically little or nothing to solve the problem. But no, that is not something that the Opposition in this country wants to recognise. 
Yes, economic isolationism. The Opposition in this country simply wants to say that there is something terribly wrong here in 
Australia; it has occurred alone as the result of something that is happening in Australia, and that something is the fault of the Government. I say that that is a completely deceiving situation. 
Not only do the price statistics show how deceptive it is; even the structure of industry and the changes within the structure of industry show how deceptive it is. I have here a document of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development showing price percentage changes for the year to September 1974. The change for Australia is 16.1 per cent. That of course is high. It is far higher than any of us would want it to be. But what is the position of the other countries shown in this table? We find the following changes recorded: Japan 23.8 per cent; France 14.8 per cent; Italy 23.7 per cent; United Kingdom 17.1 per cent; Belgium 15.6 per cent; Denmark 15.9 per cent; Ireland 17.9 per cent; Finland 16.5 per cent; Greece 24.9 per cent; Iceland 41.4 per cent; Portugal 28.7 per cent; Spain 15.2 per cent; and Turkey 25.5 per cent. The OECD average is 14.1 per cent. The OECD average for Europe is 14.7 per cent and the average of the European Economic Community is 14.5 per cent- all comparable with Australia. 
If honourable members look at the causes of this development they will see the reasons for the changes in the rate about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Warringah are trying to interject. The reasons for the changes in the rate are the different impacts upon those economies of the boom in exports in 1972-73 and the capital inflow. Changes in the economic system that have followed are consistent and confirm that. In the case of Australia, there was a far greater export boom in 1972-73 than in any of those countries I have mentioned. The value of our exports shot up by more than $2, 000m in a year. That did not happen anywhere in Europe. That tremendous amount of money was pumped into the Australian economy and hardly any of it was neutralised. At the same time, we had a minerals boom. A minerals boom did not occur in Europe. There was no great minerals find in France, Germany or any other comparable country. But there was in Australia. 
What happened? Money from all over the world seeking resources poured into Australia to the extent of $3,200m in a year 1972-73. That did not happen in Europe. Those are the reasons for the difference in the rate. That is why we are being pushed a bit higher now than some of the European countries. But this political analysis to which the spokesmen on the other side of the House confine themselves to try to tell the people of Australia that there is only one thing wrong with the country, and that is the Government, is blinding honourable members opposite to all of these factors. We had a boom in capital inflow of $3,500m in less than a year. None of it was neutralised in those days. Every cent of it was allowed to come in here and push the economy into an inflationary phase. As soon as the Australian Labor Party became the Government it tried to regulate those 2 things and to reduce the rate of inflation. If the previous Government had acted properly and had analysed the situation properly this would have happened a year before. But this Government did it as soon as it was able to exercise control in this country. 
As I said the other day when debating this subject, top-ranking economists in Australia like Trevor Swan have expressed the opinion that if the Government had not appreciated the currency and taken other steps to control capital inflow, inflation would be 10 per cent greater than it is now. Having done that and having reduced the inflationary pressures, it is obvious that in circumstances like this there will be certain industrial changes within the country. The striking thing is that the pattern of industrial change in Australia is exactly the same as the pattern everywhere else. I have here production statistics for 1974. They show that, up to the latest figures, even in this period of recession in Australia, 1 9 out of 33 items in the recorded production statistics rose. Raw steel rose by 6 per cent, blooms and slabs rose by 8.7 per cent, tinplate rose by 13.9 per cent and so on. In almost every comparable country the number of rises is smaller than that but they are for the same commodities in which Australia shows rises. 
Up to the latest figures falls were recorded in 14 items in Australia. If one looks at every one of the European Economic Community countries in the statistics of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development one will find that the number is about the same, with a dozen commodities showing falls. Not only in Europe but also in Hong Kong, Singapore and wherever else one likes to look, the falls are about the same and they are in the same industries. Pig iron is down 7.3 per cent, clay bricks are down 15.2 per cent, Portland cement is down 6 per cent, floor coverings are down 25.6 per cent, radio sets are down 73.5 per cent, cars and station wagons are down 3.2 per cent, and woollen woven cloth is down 38.5 per cent. These falls are mainly in 3 areas- the textile industry, the building industry and the electronics and automotive industry. 
In other countries the falls are more serious than they are in Australia, but they are in the same kinds of commodities. This suggests that inflation is caused by the same kinds of things- by the international flow of funds spent on exports, by international investment and so on- as in 1972-73. But the steps taken to control inflation are the same everywhere. I recommend to the Opposition spokesman that he look at 'Newsweek' of 30 September 1974. He will see that Paul Samuelson who is probably the most influential economist in the United States of America says that it is necessary to restrain the economy, it is necessary to have a credit squeeze and it is necessary that interest rates be higher. But, he says, whilst this policy is common throughout the world, it has the consequences to which I have referred in those production statistics. They are the same everywhere. What has happened in Australia is therefore the same. 
Samuelson goes on to say that, even though this is necessary, do not let it go too far. His advice to President Ford is: 
Don't encourage the overly tight policies of the Federal Reserve, which have been killing the housing market and gradually increasing the gravity of stagnation. 
Don't think that some puritanical budget-cutting will suffice . . . 
Don't listen to your advisers who claim that bringing unemployment up to 6 per cent and holding it there for a couple of years will restore the economy . . . 
This is exactly the kind of thing I have been saying over the last 6 months, not always with the agreement of some of the Government's advisers. This matter is one of very fine and acute judgment in which the Government can perhaps be wrong. The Opposition can be wrong too, although it may never have occurred to its members. I am suggesting that unless the Opposition can make an analysis of the situation on economic terms and get rid of the simple political stuff it has been pumping out to the House today, it is bound not only to be wrong but also to be seen to be wrong. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, it is correct - 
Opposition supporters- Where is the Prime Minister? 
The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  in opening his speech, said that this is the most important motion which can be placed before a parliament. It is. This motion contains nothing but exaggeration, nothing but wild accusation, nothing but misrepresentation, and nothing but reckless exaggeration, all calculated to destroy confidence not only in this Government but in this nation. Unless something is done to offset it, that would be the effect it would have. 
What has been said here today is based on newspaper reports, upon leaks or rumours, most of which are false. No attempt has been made to check; no attempt has been made to have any regard to the honour or responsibility on this side of the House. There have been accusations of lies told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others and accusations of duplicity and deceit. I have been in this House for 19 years. I know that people make mistakes, but this is not a place where lies are told and where duplicity is practised. It does not help debate on a national question of this kind to have accusations of that sort made by the Leader of the Opposition and by the Leader of the Country Party. 
The Leader of the Country Party ended by saying that the Government was deliberately concerned to kill initiative and to destroy industry. But industry in this country is something upon which the great majority of workers depend. We on the Government side of the House have a loyalty to the workers of this country and we are determined to follow a policy which is in their interests. If we were doing what the Leader of the Country Party alleges we would be doing we would be failing in the trust to every one of those people who have supported the Australian Labor Party over decades and who have elected this Government to govern on their behalf. Accusations of that kind only have to be made for it to be seen how destructive and empty they in fact are. 
The Leader of the Opposition during the course of his speech quoted me twice. He quoted from the Chifley memorial lecture I delivered recently. He said that in that lecture I said that no government need do anything but learn to live with inflation. I said that some people had that view, that it was a wrong view and that it should not be accepted. But he did not even read enough of the lecture to find out that I was stating a view that prevailed and was saying that this was one of the alternatives that ought to be rejected. Yesterday in the Parliament he asked a question in which he said that I had said that unemployment in Australia was trivial. He repeated it time and time again in that long question about which the  Speaker  even had to remark. Then when he referred to Hansard to find out what I really did say he' said that I had said that unemployment in Australia was trivial compared with that in any other country. It is trivial compared with that in any other country. There is no other country in the world today where unemployment is less than it is in Australia. 
-Except New Zealand. New Zealand is the one country in the world today where there is less unemployment. No explanation was given in this debate today of the causes of inflation or the causes of unemployment. No indication was given by the Leader of the Opposition or by the Leader of the Country Party that they even understand where inflation came from or what in fact caused it. Inflation does not just occur in a week or two or in a month or two. It takes years to occur. In 1971-72 the increase in the cost of living in this country was about 3 or 4 per cent. Since then costs have increased. Why is this so? Unless we have a proper, balanced view of what is occurring we cannot possibly either examine the situation today or arrive at a policy that will be appropriate for it. Inflation came to Australia as a result of the increase in demand for our exports and as a result of the increased capital flow that occurred in 1972-73. This was followed by a financial policy under the control of the previous Government that allowed that increased inflow of funds from overseas to have full impact upon the Australian economy. 
I refer the House to the growth in money supply that occurred during that time. In 1971 the growth in money supply broadly defined in the March quarter was 7.7 per cent; in the June quarter 12.4 per cent; in the September quarter 7.5 per cent and in the December quarter 7.8 per cent. This was the time when the value of Australian exports was low. This was the time when capital inflow from overseas was fairly low. But because in 1972 there was an increase of $2,000m in the amount spent on Australian exports and an increase in the capital inflow of $3,000m, the price of foodstuffs went up, the price of meat rose. That was a dramatic factor in cost of living increases in 1973 and into 1974. At the same time the increase in money supply became a record high for Australia. Under the former Prime Minister the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  and the former Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition, in 1972 the money supply rose in the March quarter by 10.4 per cent, in the June quarter by 16.8 per cent and in the September quarter by 23.4 per cent. The all-time record increase in money supply was 29. 1 per cent in the December quarter 1972, under a government led by the honourable member for Lowe. The record increase in the money supply in the history of 
Australia occurred in the December quarter 1972. Consequently, the forces of inflation were released and were operating in Australia before the end of 1972. The kind of price increase that prevailed in 1972 and 1973 was predetermined in that year. The point I made a few minutes ago is that inflation is not something that happens in a week or two or in a month or so. Inflation is something that operates in an economy in the course of one year and emerges in full force as time passes. It takes a year or two for this to happen. Consequently, when the Labor Party became the Government it had to wrestle with the problem of inflation. 
In an economy of the kind that we have, when a government is dealing with inflation there are only limited powers and means with which such a government can operate. The Labor Government had to make certain choices that were clear. It was necessary to reduce the inflow of capital from overseas; it was necessary to increase the quantity of goods imported into Australia if demand was to be diminished and if the quantity of goods in supply was to be increased. It was impossible to increase the supply of goods rapidly enough from local production because local production at best cannot increase by more than 5 per cent or 6 per cent in a year. Consequently, we took steps to appreciate the currency; we took steps to reduce the tariffs across the board so we could get an increased supply of goods and services. In the course of 1 973 the result undoubtedly was a considerable reduction in the amount of inflation that otherwise would have prevailed. Estimates show that the amount of inflation then could have been as much as 10 per cent higher. I say that if we had had in office an alternative government drawn from the Opposition benches during that time, inflation would have been 10 per cent higher than it has been under a Labor Government. We know very well that the Australian Country Party would have resisted to the very end any attempt to appreciate the Australian dollar. It said so at the time. It did so in 1971 and 1972 and it would have done so in 1 973. The first requirement that any economic prescription would have guaranteed as a measure against inflation would have been discarded by the Opposition members if they had been in government. Consequently inflation in 1973 and 1974 would have been considerably higher than it is now. 
It is all right to be critical, it is all right to be destructive and it is all right to say that everything the Government has done has been wrong, but I ask the people of this nation to think of what the alternative would have been. The alternative would have been one that this no confidence motion would have justified- mass unemployment and social hardship. The unemployment of one person in Australia is too high, and of 10 people it is too high. But we do not have mass unemployment in Australia today. If we had not begun the reflation of this economy three or four months ago, unemployment would have been considerably higher than it is now. We have begun earlier than any other country to get the economy back onto its feet and to eliminate unemployment. We have therefore considerably reduced unemployment from what it would otherwise have been. The no confidence motion speaks about a fall in the living standards of all Australians. Let us look to see what the facts really are. Average weekly earnings adjusted or deflated for changes in prices increased in real purchasing power by 3.2 per cent in the year ending June 1973 and by 3.9 per cent in the year ending June 1974. Despite the increase in the cost of living which, as I have said, would have been considerably greater under any other government, average weekly earnings in Australia have increased more rapidly than that; they increased in real terms by 3.2 per cent in the year ending June 1973 and 3.9 per cent in the year ending June 1974. So the third proposition put forward in the no confidence motion is destroyed by the statistics as they concern wages. 
I ask honourable members to consider the hundreds of thousands of people who depend upon pensions for their income. During the period that the cost of living has increased under this Government by between 16 per cent and 20 per cent the age and invalid pensions in Australia have increased by over 50 per cent. Never before in the history of Australia has such a significant increase in age and invalid pensions been made as has been made by this Government. I ask the Parliament and the people what the alternative would have been. Do they imagine that if there had been a government drawn from the other side of the House average weekly earnings would have increased by more than the cost of living? I ask them to think realistically about what would have happened if we had had a government drawn from the other side of the House in these circumstances; the government would have been troubled that wage increases were too high. 
What situation would we have had under a Liberal Party government in recent times? We know from experience what situation we would have had; we know what it did before. We know there would have been a wage freeze- an attempt to freeze wages and to prevent wage increases from being obtained. We know that whatever is the level of industrial disputes in Australia- any industrial dispute is unfortunatethis level is small compared with that of any other comparable country. In Europe industrial disputes are and have been one of the greatest problems of the last decade or two. We know also that should such disputes have occurred in Australia under a Liberal-Country Party government there would have been cuts in education and cuts in welfare. Does any honourable member think we would have had the development of a program in which more than double the amount in real terms has been spent on education during the last 2 years? Would we have had the area improvement programs, the health centres and the development of the health scheme? We would not. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said that what must be done about inflation today is to cut government expenditure. No matter how much one tries to get the Leader of the Opposition into a corner he cannot deny that his policy would result in cuts not only in social welfare but also in education, health and all the other essentials that make up the greater part of government expenditure in this nation. That is the alternative people would have had under an alternative government. That is the alternative that would have prevailed had Australia not been governed by the Labor Party in the last 20 months. 
Recently there has been a good deal of criticism about the change in ministerial arrangementsabout the change of the positions of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and of myself. I remind the House and everybody else what happened in recent years. During previous governments there were 5 Prime Ministers, and everybody recalls the experience of waiting in Kings Hall to hear the outcome of the great tussle between  Mr McMahon  and  Senator Gorton,  as he then was. Under previous governments there have been 8 Ministers for Defence, 7 AttorneysGeneral, 8 Ministers for External Affairs, 9 Ministers for Civil Aviation, 7 Ministers for Shipping and Transport, 12 Ministers for Air, 7 VicePresidents of the Executive Council and 7 Ministers for Immigration. Of course, many of these Ministers, when they became an embarrassment, were appointed to positions overseas; for instance, as a High Commissioner in Malta or an Ambassador to Ireland.  Senator Gair  was not the first one of those. A member of this House,  Mr Hugh  Robertson, was one.  Senator Gair's  appointment was one for which there are many precedents. Every one of those ministerial changes could have been called dramatic and traumatic and could have been exaggerated as they were today. 
Both Opposition speakers in this debate made some issue of the way in which this Government is ready to discuss with trade union leaders the important matters of this nation. I make no apology for that. This Government is prepared to discuss with trade union leaders the great economic questions of this nation. We want to hear their views, we want to have those discussions and we want to have them in the open. We have met with  Mr Hawke  and with other members of the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions as we have met with many other trade union leaders, both formally and informally, during the course of the last 20 months. We have had not only informal meetings here but elsewhere as well. We have included a great many of these trade union leaders in the industrial panels that have made an important contribution to the development and planning of industry during that time. But what would happen it there were a government drawn from the other side of the House? It would not meet readily with the trade union leaders. I understand that just before the last election  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Nixon,  a senior member of the Country Party, and  Senator Greenwood  were anxious to see  Mr Hawke  but were not prepared to see him in the open. They wanted to meet on neutral ground and  Mr Hawke  said: 'If you want to see me come to the ACTU offices and do so'. 
There is a big difference between the attitude of members of this side of the House towards the trade union movement and that of members of the other side of the House. We represent the trade union movement, among other people, in this Parliament. But honourable members opposite have fought the trade union movement, have imprisoned trade union leaders, have frozen wages and have carried out concentrated campaigns of attack upon the trade union movement. As I said a few minutes ago, if honourable members opposite were again in government that is what they would be doing. 
In the course of his speech the Leader of the Opposition found it possible to make a passing reference to wage indexation. I pointed out in the debate yesterday that the Leader of the Opposition had made no more than a passing reference to indexation. His supporters have attacked indexation and said they would have no part of it. I put it to the House this way: Why do the Liberal Party and Country Party Premiers around Australia and the Leader of the Opposition here oppose what is, in fact, a just principlethe principle of cost of living adjustments applied to Australian wage and salary earners? A government that is properly governing this nation cannot possibly ignore the position of wage and salary earners when the cost of living is increasing. 
A system to indexation would allow workers, without the necessity of strike or even of application, to obtain automatically an adjustment of their wages and salaries for cost of living increases. This is essentially a good principle and without the application of this principle any government would find that it would be in a position in which it would not in any way be able to receive or expect the co-operation of workers or unions in any policy directed at the stability of the economy. But this basic principle that should always underlie national policy has never been considered seriously by the Opposition. To the Opposition it has merely been the subject of a passing reference and, generally speaking, the subject of attack. 
We have also been regaled today about the alienation of foreign investment. Before we became the Government we had listened to some of the best leaders of the parties in previous governments, like  Sir John  McEwen, who was for a long time the leader of the Australian Country Party, telling us that because of overseas investment the heritage of Australia had been substantially sold out. We recognised the truth of that and we made up our minds that we would not allow this to occur during our term of office. So we were not as the Prime Minister of the time,  Mr Gorton,  said governments had been known to his Government, like a puppy lying on its back having its stomach tickled by foreign investors. We decided that we would properly control and regulate foreign investment. I said in the first place that this was a necessary anti-inflationary measure. If, as the evidence showed, inflation had been substantially the result of the flood of foreign funds that were endeavouring to buy out Australia in that process prior to 1973, foreign investment had to be regulated for antiinflationary reasons. So we adopted the method of using the variable deposit ratio by which up to one-third of the foreign investment that came into Australia was to be held on deposit with the Reserve Bank. As I pointed out a few minutes ago, if actions like that had not been taken inflation in 1973-74 would have been very much greater than it has been. 
In no case has the Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the Australian Country Party, who followed him in the debate, in criticising destructively what the Government has done in the last 2 years said what he would have done in the circumstances if he had been elected to government in December 1972, had the Australian people made a serious mistake and returned him once more to government- an inconceivable situation, of course, at the time. What would they have done in 1973? Would they have done nothing about the inflow of foreign funds? Would they have done nothing about the value of the Australian dollar? How would they have dealt with the situation? Would they have done nothing to restrict bank lending following, as I have said, the period in which the increase in the money supply in 1972 was an all-time record for Australia? If they had taken those measures would they have been able to guarantee that there would be any less unemployment than there has been under the present Government? Inflation is a serious problem. Inflation cannot be dealt with without some adverse consequences. But what I say about the record of the present Government is that the adverse consequences have been far less than they have been in other comparable countries and far less than they would have been under any alternative government of this nation. 
Looking at the future, neither the Government nor anyone else in this nation is helped very much by the destructive criticism, by the wild accusations and by the misrepresentations that have taken place in this debate. They have no effect but to destroy confidence in the nation. It is done purely for political reasons. Anything can be done and anything goes in a presentation of that kind, so long as those who are putting the argument have some chance of becoming the government. But that is not the way in which to govern this nation. The Government guarantees that steps will be taken to keep unemployment to the minimum and to reduce it, that steps will be taken to reduce the impact of inflation and that steps will be taken to ensure that whatever be the consequences of inflation they will be fairly and equitably shared throughout the nation. 
In respect of the beef men and others in the country, I think the record of the present Government is one of more having been done to obtain markets from overseas. The consequences of that have been shown in the level of production. When we became the Government primary production everywhere was at an extremely low level, despite the fact that the expenditure on food, particularly meat, was increasing. In fact there was a failure of any increase in production to take place. 
In commodities like wheat there was in fact a fall in production from  $lA  million tons to  6lA  million tons. During the next 12 months, partly as a result of improved economic conditions in which, for instance, there was an increase of over 6 per cent in the gross national product in the first year of the Labor Government compared with 3 per cent and 2.8 per cent in previous years, there was a dramatic increase in production. Part of that was due to the response that came from country areas. The level of production of wheat, which had been  6Vi  million tons in the last year of the McMahon Government and which had been 8V4 million tons the year previous to that, became last year under the present Government 11V4 million tons. Does anyone in this country say that the wheat contracts that we were able to sign with China for 4.7 million tons had no effect on that dramatic improvement in the output of rural industry? 
Looking at wool, because of excess buying by Japanese buyers last year, of which one of the consequences was a considerable increase in the amount of inflation because of the increasing costs that occurred in Australia, the wool industry found itself in difficulties this year. But there was an immediate response from the Government. We did not turn our backs on the wool industry. There was an immediate response in which we authorised the Australian Wool Corporation to buy in an attempt to stabilise the price of wool and in which we backed to the full the actions of the Wool Corporation. 
In every section of the economy, wherever one looks at it, the Government has taken steps to regulate the inflationary situation without causing a recession, has taken steps to pick up the unemployment situation so that the level of unemployed does not become too great, and has taken steps everywhere to see that, whatever the consequences of that are, they are fairly and evenly distributed throughout the Australian community. Consequently we have a situation in which the average worker, despite inflation, is in a better position today than he was 12 months ago and we have a situation in which every person who lives on the age and invalid pension is considerably better off than he was 12 months ago or 2 years ago. The continuation in office of the present Government will ensure that inflation is controlled and regulated, that unemployment is prevented and that the Australian people are fairly and equitably treated. This motion is an irresponsible one. It has not been taken seriously even by its supporters on the other side of the House. It has not been taken seriously by the Government and it will not be taken seriously by the people of Australia. 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has acted to alleviate employment problems in the Australian textiles and apparel industry by moderating the pressures of imports and by encouraging structural adjustment within the Australian textiles industry. 
Earlier this year the Government appointed a special Textiles Authority to investigate quickly those cases where it appeared imports might be causing or threatening disruption of the Australian market. The Government also decided at that time that Australia should accede to the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles to enable it, consistent with its other international trade treaty rights and commitments, to take action against individual low-cost overseas sources of supply whose exports to Australia were causing or threatening disruption of the Australian market. 
Following a report by the Textiles Authority in July 1974, action was taken to contain imports of a range of knitwear and woven apparel items. Import licensing controls were introduced on imports from Taiwan and the Republic of Korea. Export restraint arrangements were negotiated with Hong Kong, India and the People's Republic of China. 
The Prime Minister forwarded a further reference to the Textiles Authority on 1 1 September on whether action should be taken in terms of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles to contain imports of wool and acrylic yarns, knitted fabrics and towels and towelling. 
The need to restrain import pressures at this time was also an important factor in the Government's decision to devalue the Australian dollar. The additional cost of imported textiles arising from devaluation will, of course, be greater than 12 per cent as the higher than average duties payable on most imported textiles will now be levied on the higher basic cost of imports. 
Recognising that some restructuring of the Australian Textiles industry will nevertheless remain necessary in the longer term, the Government has also implemented programs of compensation and adjustment assistance, including compensation payments and retraining and relocation programs for employees. 
It is acknowledged that in some cases the measures outlined above may not have the effect of correcting immediately unemployment problems such as those which exist in some non-metropolitan areas where textile and apparel production provides significant levels of employment. In this respect, the Government has decided to introduce special measures of assistance for country towns that have been adversely affected by structural changes. These measures will assist those communities which at present have a limited range of job opportunities to absorb significant changes in the structure of employment with a minimum of disruption. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
I assume that the honourable member seeks to establish the actual amount of bounty that was paid in respect of each of the publications mentioned in his question. I am sure the honourable member will appreciate that to do so would be to disclose cost data not otherwise available to competitive commercial interests. 
However I provide the following information: 
no bounty was paid in respect of the books designated (a) and (e). 
bounty amounting to $2,083.06 was paid in respect of books designated (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g). 
As usual, questions are begun in this House by a complete distortion. 
I mean the one about the Governor-General being blamed for the delay. The Governor-General was not blamed. It was pointed out that the Governor-General was absent and the necessary arrangments could not be made until he came back. That is not blaming him for it. That is the twisted interpretation that the honourable member and his colleagues are developing, to almost everything that they say in this House. 
The allowance of deductions for donations to voluntary organisations is, in principle, a practice that has been adopted by both sides of the House for many years, and as a principle it will continue to be adopted by myself when Treasurer, as in the case of all my predecessors. Of course, it depends in application upon which organisation these advantages are to be given to, and that is a matter that is determined on its merits. There will be no difference whatever in the practice.. The practice in the future will be the same as in the past. 
The comparison was perfectly valid. I gave the full figures in the speech I made and the honourable gentleman can read them if he has not already done so. I pointed out that the difference between Australia and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average was very slight- 14.7 per cent as against 16.1 per cent. I listed the OECD countries whose increases were comparable to Australia's, ranging from the average and those close to the average through to Italy, which was considerably above the average. I also referred to Japan, where I think the rate was 25 per cent. I said that I was aware of the difference in rates in recent times, and in that speech I went on to explain why there was a difference in rates- that inflation in Australia had come mainly from the boom in export values in 1972-73 and from the fantastic boom in overseas investment in the Australian minerals industry. 
None of this happened in any OECD country. There was no boom in exports that was comparable with Australia's in any single country. There were no great discoveries of nickel or uranium in Germany or in Italy or in France. There was no mineral boom in those countries in 1972-73. I explained that this accounted for a good deal of the difference in rates. I am surprised that with his background the honourable gentleman is not aware of economic history as well as economics, because this is pari of the economic history of every boom, and the character of the boom is given to it by the impetus from its sources. I tried to explain this again yesterday in the no confidence debate but apparently the Opposition leaders are unaware of what causes inflation. I have done my best over two or three days to explain it to them, and I refer the honourable member again to the record in Hansard of the speeches I have made. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Copies for press releases issued by the Minister for Customs and Excise are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery and by mail to 690 addresses on the departmental mailing list. 
Broadly, the copies are distributed to media organisations, Government Departments, embassies, political party organisations, business organisations, libraries, Customs agents, overseas representatives of the Department of Customs and Excise and individuals from whom requests are received. 
Generally about 760 but the number may vary in particular cases. 
The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this pan of the right honourable member's question. 
5 ) One officer is involved on a pan time basis only. 
I present for the information of honourable members the report on nitrogenous fertilisers, dated 16 July 1974, of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to introduce a new export incentive scheme- the Export Market Development Grants Scheme- to replace the export incentive arrangements which expired on 30 June 1974. Shortly after coming to office, the Government announced that the existing export incentive arrangements- the Export Incentive Grants Scheme and the Export Market Development Allowance Scheme- which had operated virtually unchanged since 1961, and were due to expire on 30 June 1973, would be continued for a further 12 months until 30 June 1974. In the meantime, the Government undertook to have a thorough review made of the operations of the incentive arrangements. 
In the light of this review, the Government concluded that there was a need for a continued export incentive, but that the schemes which had operated since 1961, and were running at an annual cost of some $ 100m; were unsatisfactory and should be replaced. Furthermore, the Government decided that the emphasis in a new export incentive scheme should be on market development rather than perpetuating payments on exports. Under the previous export incentive arrangements the bulk of the benefits went to a few large companies. Moreover, because the benefits under the schemes took the form of rebates of income tax and payroll tax liability, many small exporting firms and other bodies engaged in export such as statutory marketing authorities and co-operatives were disadvantaged. 
Against this background, I announced on 18 December 1973 the details of the Export Market Development Grants Scheme to operate from 1 July 1974. The Scheme was developed on the basis of the following principles and criteria: The scheme should not involve rebates of tax and benefits should be in the form of grants; particular encouragement should be given to small and medium sized firms to become involved in exporting; there should be a ceiling limit on the benefits received by any one firm or group of firms; and there should be a better balance established between the costs of revenue and benefits to the exporting sector. 
Following the announcement of 18 December 1973, I requested the Department of Overseas 
Trade to conduct seminars in all States to acquaint exporters with the Government's intentions with regard to the new scheme and to comprehend difficulties that exporters might have with the proposed operation of the scheme. As a result of submissions made at these seminars and in representations from export industry organisations and individual exporters, a number of aspects of the original proposals were modified. The modifications were announced in a detailed statement on 2 July 1974. In order to enable long term planning by exporters, the Export Market Development Grants Scheme will operate for a period of 5 years as from 1 July 1974, but will be reviewed after 3 years to permit any changes considered desirable to be made. The Export Market Development Grants Bill provides that grants will be payable to claimants on eligible export market development expenditure in respect of any goods, services, property rights or know-how which are substantially of Australian origin. The eligibility criteria to be applied to export promotion expenditure will be generally the same as under the previous Export Market Development Allowance Scheme provided for in section 160  AC  of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The scheme will be administered by an independent Export Development Grants Board, responsible to the Minister for Overseas Trade. 
Any individual, partnership, company or association carrying on business in Australia and incurring eligible expenditure will be entitled to apply for grants. Some statutory marketing authorities, co-operatives and associations previously excluded from export incentive benefits will be eligible under the new scheme. However, in view of the diversity of the functions and powers of the many authorities and associations operating in Australia, and also the need to ensure that the provisions of the scheme are applied equitably to all claimants, the Bill provides that each authority and association will be required to seek approval for claimant status and be prescribed by regulation. 
As a general rule, a claimant must be a principal in an export transaction and must not incur promotional expenditure on behalf of or as an agent for someone else for which he is being reimbursed or paid. The grants will be available at 2 rates: A premium rate of 85 per cent for eligible expenditure incurred by new exporters, or by established exporters in trying to develop new markets, and by participants in Australian Government sponsored trade promotions; and a standard rate of 60 per cent for all other eligible expenditure. There will be a ceiling on annual payments to any one claimant of $100,000 or 10 per cent of export earnings, whichever is the lower, plus an additional amount of up to $25,000 in respect of eligible expenditure on Australian Government sponsored trade promotions. Within the $100,000 ceiling, the 10 per cent limitation will not apply to new claimants, certain prescribed marketing authorities or associations, or eligible expenditure incurred on Australian Government sponsored trade promotions. A new claimant will be regarded as one who has not incurred eligible expenditure in the first 5 of the 7 years immediately preceding a grant year. 
Wholly owned subsidiaries and their parent corporation will be treated as a group of corporations and considered as a single entity for the purpose of applying the absolute grant ceiling. However, for all other purposes, including the 10 per cent limitation, each individual corporation within a group will be considered separately. For the purpose of the premium rate, a new market will be a market in which the claimant has not incurred more than $5,000 of eligible expenditure over the whole of the 3-year period immediately preceding the year to which the claim relates. Having satisfied this test, the claimant will be entitled to grants at the premium rate for 3 consecutive years in relation to eligible expenditure in that market. A market is defined as a particular country or external territory. 
Australian Government sponsored trade promotions will include all overseas trade promotion activities such as trade missions, displays, exhibitions, store promotions, advertising and publicity organised or sponsored by the Department of Overseas Trade. In addition, the Department of Overseas Trade may approve as Australian Government sponsored certain overseas promotional activities organised by State governments, industry groups or firms. The export incentive scheme provided for under this Bill gives clear evidence of the Government's constructive approach to export policy balanced with its objectives and priorities for the economy as a whole. The cost to revenue of the scheme in its first year of operation is estimated at $27.5m. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
I am sorry that the Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  has not received a copy of the speech. I notice that he has been without one. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The judgment about the relative effects of the appreciation of the currency or of tariff changes is a subjective judgment. It is difficult to relate these events to statistics but it seems to me that the attitude of industry in general gives a fair indication of the position. Most industry groups consider that any restoration of the 25 per cent tariff cut would have had very little effect on the overall flow of imports. They all speak about the necessity for quota restrictions, if their own situation is to be affected. That, however, concerns only about 3 industries- textiles, footwear and electronicsand no more than that. In industry generally, not only does the currency appreciation have effect but also the overall national credit policy has an effect. It is most frequently mentioned that the main problem is the shortage of working capitalthe liquidity problem. I point out, in respect of this, that it is quite impossible for any government to moderate the impact of inflation without some of these consequences. I suppose that today the most significant factor is the moderation of inflation that comes from banking policy. It is quite difficult to identify one aspect or the other. I think it is a rather fruitless exercise, particularly in the administration of reconstruction assistance. Specifically in answer to the honourable member's question, I have for weeks been concerned to examine this question and I am quite open to the view that the basis for reconstruction assistance may have to be widened. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The United States has maintained a tariff on raw wool for some forty years. At the 1 947 negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Australia obtained a concession which reduced the duty to its present level of 25.5 cents per pound. Since then successive Australian Governments have been unable to achieve any further reduction. 
The Government is hopeful there may be scope for negotiation of the duty in the forthcoming GATT multilateral trade negotiations. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
No requests have been received by my Department from voluntary organisations seeking financial assistance for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
-It is true that the Japanese experience in the post-war period shows that as the living standards of nations rise the consumption of protein rises. Of course, in the case of Japan there would be an even greater consumption of imported meat if it were not for the fact that the Japanese meat producers, although they represent a small proportion of the community, have a very strong political influence. 
-I thought the similarity would be noticed. In the case of the Middle East, it is certain that as the living standards of the oil exporting countries rise as a result of the increase of the price of oil their imports, including protein, will rise very considerably. This gives Australia a great opportunity. The leaders of most of the oil exporting countries are very well aware of this. In his recent visit to Australia the Shah of Iran was most interested in the prospects of establishing increased relations with the Australian meat producing and exporting industry. Already several companies have been involved in constructive discussions with that country. This applies also to one or two of the other oil exporting countries. It is true that there are some religious inhibitions in respect of the consumption of meat when killed under certain circumstances. This involves the export of live animals for a start, and consequently a very large number of live animals have been exported to the Middle East area. At first there was union objection to this but that has been modified. I am sure that when the interests and needs of the people in the countries we are talking about are taken into account we can expect that Australian unions will understand the situation and will be prepared to co-operate provided there are proper safeguards. I am sure those problems can be overcome. 
I present for the information of honourable members the report on yarns, knitted fabrics and towelling, dated 10 November 1 974, prepared by the Textiles Authority within the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 30 June 1 975 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 13 to 17 introduced into the Parliament during this session and not enacted to date. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to reports by the Tariff Board on fibreboard containers, paper and textile bags and photographic and cinematographic apparatus, etc.; and reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on food processing machinery, etc., gloves, mittens or mitts, passenger motor vehicles, etc., and steam, gas and water fittings. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
The comparison between rates of inflation in the OECD countries and Australia has been under discussion in the House for some time. The Opposition has consistently taken the view that the rate in Australia is now higher than in the other OECD countries. That is true if one bases it on a 1961-71 average. But if one bases it on a 1972 average the rate in Australia was higher than in the OECD countries and that rate has diminished. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I desire to make a personal explanation because I believe that there is no other way in which I can put a few misrepresentations in order. The personal explanation concerns the appointment to my staff of Miss Junie Morosi. Two days ago I took the necessary steps to have Miss Morosi appointed as private secretary at a salary of $12,200 plus overtime. This is the normal salary of a secretary to a Minister. It represents approximately the salary of most secretaries to Ministers. In some cases the salary of a secretary is a little lower than that, where the higher grade is reserved for somebody else. In some cases, the salary is considerably above the one that Miss Morosi will be receiving. She will be classified as a ministerial officer grade 2, which is the normal grade. There was no suggestion anywhere that she would be paid $17,000 or $17,500. This rumour is the result alone of unfounded newspaper speculation, as is the other minor point that she would be appointed office co-ordinator. That has never been thought of or mentioned and in some way or other it is a newspaper invention. I am quite satisfied that Miss Morosi is a person of very considerable ability, character and integrity. Naturally, I have made inquiries and it is for me to judge the character, integrity and ability of the people I appoint to my staff. I am satisfied about that. I am not going to be influenced by newspaper campaigns which have an element of the scurrilous and an element of the irresponsible. I suggest to honourable members that if I had chosen a man or even a woman who was not good looking, perhaps nothing would have happened. 
The second matter referred to as a blemish by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who is sitting at the table concerns a Press secretary who was in my employ for some months. During that time he behaved extremely well. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has just said, an incident happened in Peking following a banquet. I do not think that  Mr Green  was the first man associated with a Minister in this Parliament who got a little under the weather. That is not an uncommon event. He had resigned beforehand. This was his last job. I do not take that serious a view of it. I regret that it happened. I made sure that he apologised and made redress to those in whose presence he had misbehaved. But I do not think it is a national question and I do not think the honourable gentleman at the table is being fair when he regards that as a blemish and associates it with me. 
in reply- It is pleasing that the Opposition is supporting this Bill. There are one or two points I would like to make. First of all, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke about uncertainty. There is no uncertainty about this scheme. The position taken by the Government was that the previous scheme, the market development assistance scheme and the export incentive grants, would come to an end. The date of that was stated clearly. Press statements were made about the new scheme on 18 December 1973 and 2 July 1974. In addition, a number of seminars were held between officials of the Department and the industry. The new scheme was fully explained and understood. Quite a number of suggestions made at those seminars were taken up and put into effect. 
In making a decision about bringing the old scheme to an end the Government had to take into account whether it was prepared to impose upon taxpayers a cost of over $ 100m, rising with increases in the assisted types of exports. In speaking to this measure the Opposition has not mentioned the significance of that cost which is in fact imposed upon taxpayers. It was a transfer from taxpayers to a few very large companies- a little over twenty- so that one per cent of those who received the benefits of the market development assistance scheme received over 50 per cent of the benefits, and 2 per cent of the recipients of the other scheme- the exports incentives grants scheme- received over 50 per cent of the benefits. 
Let us look at particular things such as motor cars. Under this scheme the Australian taxpayer is probably paying $70 or more for every motor car exported from Australia. The Government, as in all these matters, has to make a decision according to its priorities, and the priorities of this Government are that it has to draw a limit to the extent to which it will impose upon taxpayers a burden as heavy as $100m and more for the benefit predominantly of a few fairly large companies. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  spoke about control of this scheme and about abuses. In order to obviate abuses, this scheme is based on a performance test with a ceiling limit and there are certification requirements. The main point is that companies should justify their expenditures by their examinable performance. I think the taxpayers would expect that any government would find it necessary, as this Government has done, to employ that kind of control over the scheme. 
The honourable member raised the question of discrimination. I point out that in many ways this scheme is much less discriminatory than the other scheme. I pointed out how the other one discriminated in favour of size. This one is less discriminatory. All companies qualify, including marketing boards and the smaller firms which one would expect that the average citizen would normally see as being more justified to receive assistance are discriminated against less than under the old scheme. There is a difference in the premium rate and the standard rate, but there is a good reason for that difference. Whether a company receives the premium or the standard rate depends not upon whether it is small or large but on whether it is a new or established operation. I think it is common sense to provide the higher rate for those who are making the establishment expenses. Those who receive the lower rate have already incurred the higher establishment expenses. Having got over that and having received assistance for it, it seems to me sensible that they should receive only the standard rate. A scheme of this sort- the remarks made by the 2 Opposition speakers related to the old scheme- has to be related to the general state of the economy. I think it is desirable that there be a continuing plan of reasonable assistance to exporting manufacturers. 
Last week I had the pleasure of being able to present export awards. There have been some remarkably fine performances by the companies that have been most successful in exporting. I think there is room for continued application of thought as to what might be done about exporting. It is unfortunate that so many people who make representations to the Government do so simply in terms of campaigning for the old scheme. I am sorry that the 2 Opposition speakers have joined with the numbers campaigning for the old scheme. The old scheme had many defects and faults, and it was most necessary to prevent the abuses- I use the term that has already been used- that were operating under the old scheme. It would be much better if we were able to apply ourselves to achieving something better rather than campaigning for the return of the old. 
I am sorry that we do not have the amendments that the Leader of the Australian Country Party suggested he might be able to prepare by the time the Bills go to the Senate. What is involved in these Bills is fairly well known. When those amendments arrive the Government will certainly have a look at them in the Senate. But just as the Opposition believes it has a right to have a Bill presented to it with notice, I believe that the Government also has a right to have amendments presented to it with notice. I hope that when the Leader of the Australian Country Party is ready with his amendments he will not wait until this Bill reaches the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The effect of the bilateral textiles arrangements entered into in August and September 1974 between the Australian Government and the governments of the People's Republic of China and of India respectively, will be to restrain exports in the twelve month period ending 30 June 1975 from the latter countries to Australia of certain textiles items detailed in those arrangements to levels which it is considered, having regard to the findings of the Textiles Authority, will not disrupt the Australian market. 
Exports of textiles to Australia from Pakistan and the Philippines and imports of textiles into Australia from those countries are not subject to quantitative restrictions. 
The subject of the honourable member's question is a very important one. It has been apparent for quite a number of years that the significance of natural disasters in a country like Australia is great enough to mean that a comprehensive national scheme to provide for these disasters is a matter of great importance. The Government set up last year for the first time a natural disasters organisation. It proved to be of enormous value in the aftermath of the Darwin disaster as a result of Cyclone Tracy. A great deal of experience has been obtained all round Australia - not just in Darwin - as a result of the work of that organisation following that tragedy. 
It is true that in March 1974 a report was prepared on this subject by a committee of private insurers. It was entitled 'Feasibility Study into the Introduction of a Natural Disasters Insurance Scheme'. The report has been very carefully examined since its receipt by the Government. This is a very complex and substantial problem. The committee of insurers I have just mentioned is preparing an additional report following the Darwin cyclone. That too will be taken into account. I expect that it will be some weeks before I can say any more than I have said now on the matter. That will be necessary because of the substantial amount of work that has to be done. It will be then possible to begin to see the pattern that legislation might take. But I expect no decision to be taken short of several weeks. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
One ofthe specific platforms of policy on which this Government was elected to power- and reelected is that we would expand the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to enable it to do its job more effectively. This Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill 1974 [No. 2] seek to give effect to this mandate. The AIDC was set up by a previous government to help finance the development and growth of Australian private enterprises in the mineral and manufacturing sectors and to secure Australian participation in the ownership and control of Australian industry. These Bills, which are now being introduced for the fourth time, are designed to remove certain unnecessary restrictions on the AIDC's operations contained in existing legislation and to increase the ability of the AIDC to assist investment and employment in the private sector, and to facilitate ownership and control by Australians of our industries. 
At no time in recent history has there been a greater need in Australia for the kind of development financing that these Bills will make possible. There is a vital need to revive private investment and create employment opportunities in the private sector. While the AIDC's contribution in the short term can necessarily only be a limited one, it can, if it is allowed to function effectively, give an important lead to investment in the vast number of potential developments which are crying out for funds today. It is strange indeed that the Opposition has prevented the Government for a period of 18 months, from implementing policies for promoting sound industrial development and expansion in the private sector and for facilitating Australian ownership of Australian industries. 
The Bills were first introduced on 30 August 1973 and passed to the Senate in October where they were referred to a select committee for inquiry and report. The committee did an excellent job and while, through a series of unfortunate circumstances, it was not able to present its report, its public hearings cleared away many of the misconceptions which surrounded this legislation. In April 1974 the Government, anxious to proceed with this important legislation, reintroduced the Bills but they were again rejected in the Senate despite the work that had been done by the committee and without any obvious reference in that rejection to that work. On 16 July 1974 the Government re-introduced the Bills for the third time in a substantially amended form. Once more the Senate rejected them. The Bills introduced today are in exactly the same form in which they were rejected by the Senate on 13 August 1974. 
The Bills are the result of detailed study and refinement by Government and private business experts and incorporate amendments flowing from the hearings of the Senate committee and from discussions with the Opposition. The Bills have been extensively discussed and debated and no substantial objections to them were raised. The Government re-introduces the Bills, therefore, in the full expectation that they will receive a quick passage. 
Let me remind the House of the main features of the proposed legislation and its particular objectives. Fundamentally, the provisions of these Bills retain completely the original character of the AIDC as a business enterprise run by businessmen. The AIDC Board includes some of the leaders of Australian business, most of them appointed by the previous Government and re-appointed by the present Government. The Bills continue to provide for the AIDC to run on sound economic lines, but directed towards nationally desirable industry and resources development and towards helping to give Australian companies the financial strength to be able to share rather more in the ownership and control. 
A major change in the AIDC's functions proposed in the AIDC Bill is to make the securing of maximum practical Australian ownership and control of industry an equal primary function of the AIDC along with financing industry development. Practically every Australian proclaims these as desirable objectives, but the simple fact is that the AIDC, in pursuing these objectives is unduly and unnecessarily hindered by many unrealistic legislative restrictions and anomalies which operate in practice in ways which certainly could never have been intended by the Government which introduced the original AIDC legislation. I point out that the original amending Bills which were designed to remove these legislative restrictions were in fact drawn up by staff of the AIDC itself as a result of experience under the previous Government and I would imagine that the attitude of the Minister then responsible would have been that he agreed with those changes. 
A major objective of the AIDC Bill is to remove these unnecessary hindrances. Let me instance just a few examples. Under its present law the AIDC, because it is limited to financing manufacturing and mining companies, could finance the construction of a mine railway if it is to be owned by the mining company itself but not if it is to be owned and run by a separate specialist company. The same is true of any other ancillary activity. Again, the AIDC is at times unable to provide as much finance as a project needs because to do so might put the AIDC in a position where it could be said to be able to exercise control. The AIDC cannot now use its project funds to participate in a joint venture because each member of a joint venture, no matter how small his participation, is technically a 'principal' in his own right and is in full 'control ' of his percentage of the venture. 
The AIDC is currently bound to source its borrowings principally outside Australia regardless of whether this is good or bad for the Australian economy of the future. So when the requirements of monetary policy make it desirable to restrict or forbid overseas borrowings, the AIDC is still bound by this rule. The AIDC, which was set up for the declared intention of promoting Australian ownership and control, is not allowed to use its project funds to buy back existing foreign owned shares in enterprises in Australia. 
Anomalies and restrictions of the kind I have mentioned are, of course, illogical and unnecessary. It is understandable that their effects may not have been foreseen when the original AIDC legislation was drafted, but once they had emerged in practical operating experience any responsible government that was serious about the role and objectives for which the AIDC was founded would have had to take steps to correct them. I point out those corrections. The amendments to the Act which were provided in the original Bills were provisions that were designed by the staff of the AIDC itself during the time of the previous Government and would undoubtedly have emerged in any case. I would imagine that had the previous Government managed to retain office in the last 2 elections and was now the government considering the powers of the AIDC it would be proposing amendments similar to the ones that I have just mentioned and the others that appear in the amending Bill. 
There has been much talk about the AIDC being put in a privileged position by these Bills. 
However, the matters about which there has been most discussion are proposals mentioned in connection with the AIDC but not contained in the Bills. These proposals, if decided upon by the Government, would require separate legislation when they would be subject to the specific and detailed examination of the Parliament. Let me keep that quite separate. The case that has been made about the special privileges of AIDC -in my opinion, they are not significant- do not come into operation as a result of the passage of these Bills but would require separate legislation. If the Opposition objected to those provisions, that would be the time to do it, and not now. 
It should also be said in this context that no company in Australia, local or foreign, is subject to the sort of restrictions under which AIDC has to operate. AIDC operates and will still have to operate within the framework of specific statutory functions and policy guidelines. The fact that AIDC must confine itself to a specific sphere of nationally important industrial development, while fundamental to AIDC's purpose and therefore unavoidable, is itself of course a constraint on its business activities which does not apply to other private businesses. Even with the passage of the current Bills the Corporation will remain relatively restricted by comparison with other private businesses. However, the proposed legislation would give AIDC a little more of the flexibility which ordinary companies already enjoy. 
I turn now to a second major objective of the AIDC Bill. This is the setting up of machinery whereby the Government itself could provide funds on a case by case basis for particular projects, assessed as being important in the national interest, which the companies concerned are unable to handle with their own resources together with such assistance, if any, as AIDC may be able to give. There is no intention of changing the basic principle in the concept of AIDC that it should operate as a business. But in this day and age it is not difficult to envisage that there will certainly be potential developments, within AIDC's functions, and having obvious long-term economic or social benefits to the nation, but which AIDC on a business judgment could not afford to help. For example, the investment of AIDC funds required may simply be too big for AIDC, particularly when one takes into account the restrictions that apply to AIDC and its ability to raise funds both here and overseas. 
The 'national interest' provisions of the AIDC Bill are a means by which the Government itself could assist in such cases, either by providing funds or by giving guarantees which would enable AIDC to provide funds on its own business judgment. Such AIDC national interest cases would, however, require not only a feasibility report by AIDC and consideration by a Government national interest committee but also would require specific legislation passed by both Houses of Parliament- even where no more than a Government guarantee was involved and Government funds may never be needed. 
It was said initially- as one could be certain it would be said by an Opposition continuously concerned with political gains- that these provisions were a back door nationalisation. In fact, anything less like stealthy government intrusion in industry or less subject to parliamentary and public scrutiny and control is difficult to imagine. I am sure that this is now well and truly understood. The provisions about the national interest division of AIDC, by which funds can be provided directly to AIDC or a guarantee given, were provisions that were designed as a result of an attempt to give a complete answer to the Opposition which wanted parliamentary control of what was being proposed. I have made it clear time and again that no action could be taken under the national interest division unless there was first a feasibility study by AIDC itself and, secondly, a resolution that has to pass both Houses of Parliament for the provision of funds or for the provision of a guarantee. If that is nationalisation by stealth then I have nothing to say. These provisions are a means by which governments, with parliamentary approval, can assist nationally important private sector industrial development through AIDC where only the Government is able and willing to provide the balance of the investment funds required. 
The third and last major feature of the Bills is the establishment of the National Investment Fund. The National Investment Fund would at once provide an additional source of finance for AIDC's functions and a means by which the Australian public, protected by an independent supervisory council, could invest in successful AIDC projects. The Fund would issue 'National investment bonds' which would be readily and cheaply transferable from one investor to another. The Fund would also be authorised to raise money in competition with endowment insurance and certain types of public superannuation funds. If AIDC is to fulfil its original role and be able to contribute equity as well as loan capital for projects, where that is the project's need, financial, prudence necessitates that AIDC had access to equity funds ofthe kind that national investment bonds issued by the 
National Investment Fund could provide. Again, AIDC must have a reasonable access to local funds for its advances of loan money to projects. Not every meritorious project needing AIDC finance can afford to borrow only from foreignsourced funds with attendant foreign exchange fluctuation risks. 
Hopefully, the National Investment Fund would give AIDC a limited but useful access to domestic capital, to supplement its loan raisings overseas and reduce its dependence on foreign currency sources. AIDC should not be in an inderprivileged position in competing with other institutions for local savings. AIDC obviously cannot do its job to much effect if, where it has to rely on local funds, it is no more than a source of high cost finance at the highest end of the spectrum. In addition, the Fund could be an excellent mechanism through which foreign investors, interested in investing in Australia but not seeking voting rights, could participate in Australian investments without diminishing the degree of Australian control in areas where that might be an important policy consideration. 
In summary, the measures contained in these Bills, now before the Parliament in unchanged form for the second time, will create the means for AIDC, ofthe Government through AIDC, to help provide the financial requirements of the private sector in industry development of importance to the Australian economy. They will contribute to financing the growth of Australian owned companies. They will help Australian companies to be able to take and hold a bigger share of the ownership and control in partnerships and joint ventures with companies from overseas. At no time in recent history has there been a greater need in Australia of a kind of development financing that these Bills will make possible. I hope that on this occasion the AIDC and NIF will be accepted as an essential step in permitting the AIDC to carry out its nationally important role. Opposition to the proposals contained in the Bills can be read only as a vote against what practically every Australian proclaims as desirable objectives. 
I ask, and sincerely hope, that the Parliament as a whole will on this occasion allow national considerations to prevail over any sectional differences and, on serious and impartial reflection, give unqualified support to the AIDC proposals. They have been amended in a spirit of" cooperation and compromise to try to accommodate all points of view. This is a matter warranting universal support in a genuine national endeavour. I commend the Bills to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have given my speech on this Bill in the course of speaking on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1974 (No. 2). 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is impracticable to provide a precise estimate based on current data but it has been estimated that if 5 per cent of the capital value of individual taxpayers' dwellings had been treated for income tax purposes as assessable income, income tax assessed in respect of the 1972-73 income year would have been increased by a gross amount of the approximate order of $500m. 
If the provision to which the right honourable member refers were reintroduced, it would then, no doubt, be appropriate to allow in full as offsets against the imputed income such items as mortgage interest, the cost of repairs and maintenance and private rates and land taxes. While in the circumstances, no very precise estimate could be given of the net yield of the tax in that event, it would clearly be very considerably less than the estimated gross yield of $500m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The surcharge will apply, subject to the taxable income exceeding $5,000, to interest on Special Bonds as much as to interest on deposits with building societies, etc. It will not apply to retirement benefits, whether received as superannuation pensions or lump sums, but income derived from reinvestment of a retirement benefit is property income to which the surcharge will apply if taxable income exceeds $5,000. 
Investors in Special Bonds receive interest and in addition, where the Bonds are held for a specified period, the amount payable on redemption exceeds the amount subscribed. No tax concessions attach to the interest which is, therefore, properly subject to the surcharge. The excess on redemption, however, is treated as exempt income for tax purposes; it is not subject to tax nor, therefore, to the surcharge on tax payable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information on the financial performance of the Australian Industry Development Corporation is published in the Corporation's Annual Reports. The reports contain full financial statements and extensive and detailed analyses of the Corporation's activities in assisting and providing financial resources for Australian companies. This information is presented in a degree of detail which is unusual amongst development financing and investment banking institutions. 
Details of the cost and market value, where applicable, of both the Australian Industry Development Corporation's general investments and project investments are included in Notes 4 and 5 to the Financial Statements published in the Corporation's Report for 1974, which has been tabled in the House and is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This question relates to matters of detail in the management of the Corporation's operations upon which the AIDC is neither required nor expected to report. 
AIDC 's investment policies are determined by its Board of Directors who have been selected by successive Governments because of their collective knowledge of industry and commercial experience, most having been drawn from the forefront of Australia 's private enterprise sector. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This question relates to matters of detail in the management of the Corporation's operations upon which the AIDC is neither required nor expected to report. However, it should be noted that financial information on the AIDC as published in the Corporation's annual report is presented in a degree of detail which is unusual amongst development financing and investment banking institutions. The Corporation's 1974 annual report has been tabled in Parliament and is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer you to my answer to Question No. 1348. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Professor Mandel occupies a chair in the Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences at the University of Brussels. 
I am not aware of any contribution by the Australian Government to the expenses associated with Professor Mandel 's visit. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. As indicated in reply to question No. 274, the report was prepared as a Cabinet document 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1S81 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Overseas Trade are distributed as follows: 
By hand to the parliamentary press gallery. 
By quickest possible means to each Trade Commissioner Post and Regional Office in each state. 
By mail to a press release mailing list. 
By publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
On a casual basis as requested by organisations and private individuals. 
Total number of copies circulated (excluding the Australian Government Digest) is approximately 1000, but will depend on the nature of the statement. 
The mailing list covers some media not represented in (a) above, Embassies, political patties, industry organisations, educational institutions, libraries and any interested bodies or individuals who have requested that they receive such releases regularly. 
Costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified being included in the general costs and salaries relating to salaries and administration of the Department of Overseas Trade. 
Part of the duties of one officer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Leo Burnett Pry Ltd, Melbourne have been appointed advertising agents to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
The him is a foreign-owned advertising agency in terms of the definition of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. 
Having regard to the commercial nature of AIDC's operations there are some matters of detail in its domestic affairs upon which it is neither required nor expected to report. Included in this category are the matters of turnover on which the account is based and the names of agencies which made submissions for the account. 
I cannot disclose which advertising agencies made submissions to the AIDC. However, I can tell you that on the advice of a marketing consultant three of the sixteen agencies interviewed were invited to present detailed submissions. Two of the three were Australian owned. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (5) Please refer to the answer given to Question No. 1 862 by the Special Minister of State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (3)I refer the honourable member to the reply my predecessor gave to an earlier question on this matter (Question No. 756, Hansard 23 August 1 974, page 1 1 94). 
The statistics that would be necessary for preparing a reliable estimate of the figure sought are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information below has been obtained from statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The figures show the total value of housing mortgage loans granted by Australian life offices as at 30 June in each of the years specified hereunder: 
-It is very easy for an honourable member to get to his feet and ramble on with unconfirmed and unconfirmable accusations of this kind. That might be the level which politics has reached in this House but I do not intend to descend to it. 
-I am well aware of the bush fires that occurred in New South Wales and I am aware that they are said to be the worst in living memory. The honourable member for Darling is well aware of their extent and he has brought this matter to the notice of the Government on several occasions. The Government has already had some preliminary submissions from the Government of New South Wales seeking assistance to be made available to the local authorities and others in the area. The Government will provide for assistance, and I want to say to the local authorities concerned in the area of the bush fires that no retrenchments, no curtailment of normal activities should take place. The Government can assure them that adequate funds will be made available through the State Government for them to maintain employment at existing levels or to re-employ to reach those levels. The level of activity in these essential areas by the local government authorities in the area of the bush fires will not be cut back. We are ready to discuss with the Government of New South Wales the preliminary submissions it has made, and I can assure all those concerned that provision will be made by the Government to provide the kind of assistance of whose need we have been notified so far. 
The question could have been answered by the reading of a book which I wrote on this subject some years ago in which I pointed out clearly- I think that the book stands more or less unchallenged in all these thingsthat what was happening in South-East Asia was a war in which Cambodia, North Vietnam and South Vietnam were all involved. It was a war for the independence of those countries from the colonial occupation established by the French in 1847 and continued by the United States of America after 1954. The history of that war is that the frontiers of those 3 countries were continuously crossed by the forces on both sides. If there had not been interference by the French and by the United States, that conflict would have long since been over. 
-There has been no interference by the Chinese. There has never been a Chinese person discovered anywhere in Vietnam. 
The same thing applies to the Russians. If there had not been the kind of bloody military interference which the honourable gentleman himself has supported, there would long since have been peace in that part of the world. 
The matter of public importance raised today by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  is part of the political debate that the  Deputy  Leader and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  seem to be intent upon making, and I emphasise that it is essentially a political debate, it is not an economic debate. Nowhere in anything the  Deputy  Leader has said, or the Leader in his turn, is any analysis given of the causes of the conditions that they are talking about. Nowhere do they given any recognition to the fact that the economic problems that underlie the situation in Australia are identical with the situation in every similar country in the world, that at the present time we are part of a world recession far more serious than any in the last 50 years. Nowhere do the Opposition spokesmen give any recognition to that. Nowhere do they recognise the causes of the inflation that we have just experienced and are still experiencing. Nowhere do they recognise the causes of the unemployment that we are at present experiencing. It is true that, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has just said, for employment and income in this country we are predominantly dependent upon the private sector. What the  Deputy  Leader has just said is: 'We will outbid the Government in assistance, in grants, in the concessions we make to the private sector'. The responsible position a government has to take, while recognising the essential role that the private sector plays, is to keep the assistance, the grants, the concessions made to the private sector within some kind of reason. 
I do not intend to join in the bargaining, the offering of assistance, of concessions and of grants to the private sector. I will tell the House in a few moments what the Government has done, and I consider that that is reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances. But let us first get the figures right. If we are to discuss what is happening to private business investment we should get the facts straight. In quoting the latest figures available for private business investment the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition merely compared the September 1974 quarter with the September 1973 quarter. September 1973 was at the height of the inflation. Private investment and everything else then were at excessive' heights. We had indications of this in so many areas where demand was in excess of the goods and services that were available for supply. There were shortages everywhere, and 1973 is not a suitable basis for comparison. But if one looks at 1 974 one find that in real terms the 1 974 level was 8 per cent higher than a year earlier and 18 per cent higher than the level in the December 1972 quarter, when the Opposition was last in government. By contrast, private business investment had fallen by 14 per cent in real terms over the last 2 years of the Liberal Country Party Government's term of office. In short, as the figures stand at the moment, if one takes a comparison for longer than a year and if one takes a more suitable base than September 1973, the Whitlam Government has a vastly improved record on that of the previous Government. 
Let me look at a number of the things that have already been done to deal with the situation. First of all, in 1973 we had an excess of inflation. Prices were increasing at 15 per cent or 16 per cent a year. What would the Opposition have done to deal with that situation? No mention at all was made of any anti-inflationary policy in 1973, no mention of the necessity to deal with that problem; no mention at all. There was no mention at all of whether there should have been any attempt to regulate prices through the Prices Justification Tribunal. No mention at all was made of whether there should have been any attempt to increase imports, to increase supplies, and I point out to the House that half of the increased demand for goods and services in Australia from the end of 1973 to the end of 1974 was supplied by imports alone. I point out that if our measures had not been taken it is quite clear that the inflation that is the basic cause of the trouble would have been 10 per cent or more higher than it is now, or higher than it was during the course of the last 12 months. But nowhere does the Opposition do any more than criticise the action taken by the Government to reduce that inflation. Nowhere is there any more than criticism of that. Nowhere does the Opposition suggest: 'We do not agree with what you did. This is what we would have done'. The whole criticism by the Opposition has been completely destructive. After we had brought about a check to the inflation at the end of 1973 and at the end of 1974, with certain inevitable consequences, that is, that there would be a lesser degree of activity- and inflation cannot be checked unless there is a lesser degree of activity- some of those inevitable consequences began to show. As soon as they did the responsible course that the Government had to take was to deal with that situation, and it immediately began to do so. I point out that the Government in this country began the policy to get the economy going again some 3 or 4 or 5 months earlier than any comparable country did. 
I want to point out a number of things that the Government has done. Money supply is now increasing rapidly. Over the December quarter the volume of money rose at an annual rate of over 20 per cent. Liquidity has risen sharply. In the 6 months from July to January private sector liquidity has increased by $ 1,850m. That must have had a significant influence on the rate of investment with which this matter of public importance is concerned. That must have been of very great and considerable benefit to the rate of investment. In relation to bank liquidity, the LGS ratio- the liquids and government securities ratio- of the major trading banks has risen from 19.2 per cent of deposits in June to about 25 per cent at present. Bank advances and lending have increased sharply. Advances outstanding have risen strongly and lending approvals have increased substantially from $35m per week 3 months ago to about $90m per week today. That must have had a very considerable effect upon the rate of private investment with which this matter is concerned. Short term official interest rates have declined and some private interest rates, especially on certificates of deposit and bank bills, which went to very high levels in mid- 1974, have fallen sharply. Other bank interest rates which did not rise much in mid- 1974 remain steady but are still low compared with other private interest rates. Housing finance is increasing quickly, due largely to a big rise in lending by savings banks from $209m in the September 1974 quarter to $429m in the December 1974 quarter. Those figures must have had a very considerable effect on the rate of private investment. 
Turning to banking policy, banks were asked in early October to increase appreciably their lending to meet the basic immediate needs of the economy for finance. Banks have responded quickly. In the December quarter the weekly rate of new overdraft approvals was more than double that for the September quarter. The Reserve Bank has told the trading banks that banking policy in 1974-75 will be administered so that bank liquidity will be maintained at a level sufficient to enable banks to continue to meet the basic immediate needs of the economy for finance. This lending policy has a number of aspects. Firstly, it has general application over the whole field of enterprises, whether in the primary, secondary or tertiary industries, with full regard for the needs of small and medium sized enterprises. Secondly, it is designed to enable soundly managed and viable enterprises to carry on and to maintain a reasonable level of activity. Thirdly it is designed to take into account the diminished supply of funds from other intermediaries, including funds for consumer finance, but it does not envisage that all demands arising from inflation should be met. At the present time there is no evidence of any shortage of funds through the banking system for the needs of private industry. 
I have looked at the side of banking policy and its relationship to private investment in this period of recovery. I want now to look at what is done on the fiscal side, what is done in relation to Budget outlays. The amount of assistance given to private industry in this country through the Budget is nothing less than enormous. Let us look at the 1974-75 figures- the revised estimate of the Budget. Firstly, the amount provided for housing is $645m, which represents an increase this year of at least $244m. That is direct assistance to the private sector of the economy. The assistance of an even more direct kind- industry assistance and development- amounts to $947.2m. How far does the Opposition expect a responsible government to go? The increase in the financial year in that category alone is $373.8m. More than half of the $ 1,200m increased Government expenditure provided for in the Estimates is direct assistance to the private sector. I point out that when the effect of that increase is being examined, when the effect of the Budget deficit that is inevitable in circumstances like that is being examined, it will be found that the most significant component in that increase and in that deficit is direct assistance to the private sector of the economy. 
I think that the record of the last 12 months, which I have just indicated with those figures, has been totally disregarded by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the statements he has just made. Taking into account that this has occurred- that, first of all, we have had to deal with the problem of inflation and that we have continuously to balance measures that are calculated to restrain the economy from continuing further into inflation against the measures that are needed to provide employment directly and to stimulate investment- I think that the record of the last 12 months, is in advance of that of any comparable country. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition finished his speech with a statement with which I agree, that is, that the lack of activity in the economy at the present time is caused by a decline in profitability due to accelerating costs. That situation has to be seen in the context of what has occurred over the last 2 years. Firstly, when we came into office inflation was already operating in the economy of this country. The causes of the inflation that lifted the price level to 16 per cent in the following year were here and operating by December 1972. The cause of inflation is an excess of demand over supply. In the year 1972 new expenditure of about $7,000m was created. During the following year there was a decline in practically every one of the products that went on to the table of the consumer. The inflation of 1972 was an inflation in food prices in the main. Given that, it was inevitable that there had to be wage increases- and wage increases there have been. The average of all the industrial groups during the year that followed was 33.2 per cent and the average increase in female rates was 44.6 per cent. The increase in the age and invalid pension was 55 per cent. I would think that the first responsibility of a Labor government is to make sure that the people who benefit from those wage rates and from those pension rates do not suffer in respect of inflation, but inevitably as a result of those increases there have been increases in costs and those increases in costs have resulted in a decline in profitability in the private sector. So unemployment has begun to appear. It is essential for us in this House and elsewhere to make clear to the community that unemployment is a result of excessive costs and that if wage increases continue at 25 per cent or 30 per cent then that declining profitability and that unemployment will recur. 
-I can understand how anxious the Leader of the Opposition is to know how to cut Government expenditure because he has been saying around the country now for a number of months that Government expenditure has to be cut but he has been unable to say in what areas. I can understand that he is very anxious to get an answer from me so that he can fill in the blank spaces in his own speeches which have been so apparent for a long time. The second point I want to make is that a great deal of government expenditure, in fact more than half of the increase that has taken place in the last 6 months, is going directly into the private sector to encourage activity in the private sector. I anticipate that in the future even more will have to go in that direction. One-third of the increase is for direct assistance to industry. 
I can hear the sounds of the cattle industry. The matter of government expenditure and the deficit has to be understood in relation to the present conditions of the economy. The present condition of the economy is a condition of recession, as it is around the world, as it is in every country as a result of the same conditions applying in every country. They apply in the United States and Europe, and in Australia just as much. The Opposition does not seem to be prepared to recognise this fact and therefore cannot understand what is happening in the economy. The matter of government expenditure has to be related to that. 
I believe that the deficit has to be kept as low as possible so that it does not increase the money supply unnecessarily. But every item of government expenditure has to be considered on its own merits, on its effect on the economy, and the Government will continue to do that. No other government in Australia could fail to do that. I think that there will be increases in government expenditure in some respects between now and  the end of the financial year and that there will be less expenditure in other areas. It will be the intention of the Government to keep the deficit to the lowest possible level mainly because of its impact on the money supply in the economy. But nowhere will the Government reject a proposition for government expenditure if that expenditure will maintain or stimulate employment and increase the level of activity in the private sector. 
-I think questions of this kind, with unsupported and somewhat acrimonious allegations of this nature, are hardly within order. First of all, as I have pointed out to this House on many occasions, what is happening in 
Australia today is a decline, a recession, from inflation in an economic system which is operating exactly the same in every other country. The difference is that in other countries the standard of living of the workers has not been nearly as much preserved as it has been in this country. Never before in the history of Australia have the wages of the workers and the pensions and social security benefits of those dependent upon those payments, risen as much in relation to the cost of living as they have done during the term of office of this Government As I pointed out the other day, the measures of wages, averaged in all industry groups, have risen by almost twice the amount of the cost of living. Even when taxation is taken into account the standard of living of the average worker in Australia has increased more in the last 2 years than in any other 2 years of Australian history. During the term of office of the last Government there was a decline in those standards and there was an actual decline in the number of people who joined the work force. In the first 12 months of the term of office of this Government more than 220 000 people joined the work force. 
The double tax agreement with the United Kingdom has been subject to discussion between officials of the 2 governments, as the honourable member said, for some time. When a final result is reached from those discussions appropriate action will be taken. 
I have not experienced in this House such a remarkable performance as the one I have just listened to. The honourable member for Wentworth- 
-The honourable member for Mackellar- the name does not matter- with premeditation and with consideration has come into the House and made unsubstantiated allegations against a private citizen. Nowhere has he produced any evidence. He has talked about files that might be found in Qantas Airways Ltd or in some other place. Nowhere has he produced any evidence at all except reading one alleged statutory declaration from a number of people. The first person he mentioned,  Mr Alan  Felton, was convicted in a Sydney court this morning of illegally entering Miss Morosi 's home. The honourable member chose to use a statutory declaration, the first name of which is a man who was this morning convicted of a criminal offence in a Sydney court. That is the kind of man who stands here today. That is the kind of man who will use a statutory declaration, signed by a man convicted on this very day, in the national Parliament under privilege and under protection against a person who has no chance of dealing with it. The gentlemen on the Opposition front bench have identified themselves with this conduct. 
The honourable member tells things that have been ventilated in the Press.  His  authority is the Press. He goes on and refers to a statement which contains words like 'fraudulent misappropriation of funds', 'numerous valueless cheques have been passed'. He says those things all on the strength of a statutory declaration signed by a man who was today convicted of the criminal offence of breaking into Miss Morosi 's home. That is the kind of gentleman that this House now has as its honourable member for Mackellar. He goes on to say that this matter of public importance is not directed at Miss Morosi. Has anyone ever heard such humbug? Has anyone ever heard that kind of humbug, that a private citizen who has these allegations made against her by an honourable member under privilege does not have those allegations directed at her? If this man had his way, Miss Morosi 's life would be destroyed and her future would be destroyed. He does not give a damn for Miss Morosi as an individual citizen if he can damage me, the former  Senator Murphy  and this Government. He will do anything for political advantage and he always has stooped to that. 
Let us recall his words. He said: 'I have investigated the matters in this statutory declaration. Some are confirmed, others are not confirmed, but I have not been able to disprove any'. On the strength of that he demands some kind of proper inquiry. He makes unsubstantiated allegations; he makes allegations on the strength of a man who has been convicted of a criminal offence. On the basis of these allegations he chooses to demand a public inquiry. 
I know Miss Morosi and her character. I certify to this House that she is a person of integrity, honour and competence. She is a person who has obtained the highest security clearance that it is possible for anyone to obtain. She has been cleared by security to perform the kind of task to which I have appointed her. I have found from experience that she performs that task with competence, honour and integrity. As long as I am satisfied about that, she will go on performing that task. Nothing said by the honourable member for Mackellar, nothing printed by the tabloid newspapers, will change my mind about that. As long as I am satisfied about the integrity and the competence of Miss Morosi she will remain in the position where she is now. I challenge members of the Opposition, particularly the front bench, to take a different position. 
I do not intend to allow a person to be convicted by unsupported innuendo. I do not intend to allow a citizen of this country to be convicted on the strength of a statutory declaration made by a man who, on that day, was convicted of the criminal offence of breaking into the house of the person against whom he makes those allegations. I do not intend to do that for a moment. This is an offence to which he pleaded guilty, an offence about which I have read a long statement by the Commonwealth police, and an offence which points to the involvement of a number of members of this House in that conspiracy to enter Miss Morosi 's home illegally. The honourable member for Mackellar himself was asked on television did he know  Mr Felton.  He said: 'Yes'. He has admitted today that he does. He told some television channel that  Mr Felton  had given some information. He was asked to whom. The honourable member for Mackellar, who is so careful about details, said: 'I have forgotten who told him'. 
There is evidence that the honourable member for Mackellar was associated with that attempt to enter Miss Morosi 's home illegally. There is evidence,  Mr Speaker,  that he has raised that matter with the Liberal Party Council in New South Wales. No matter what be his pretence, there is evidence that these inquiries that he has been telling the House about today are inquiries that may extend as far as that. I suggest that the honourable member's conduct here is consistent with that. The honourable member has shown himself willing to do things here which would extend to what I have just suggested. The honourable member lacks credibility. The honourable member here from time to time has been willing to defame people on the slightest evidence, and sometimes with no evidence at all. But not so far in this House have I heard such a lamentable performance as he was guilty of today. This motion was not directed at Miss Morosi! 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish you had reminded the honourable member of some of his obligations a bit earlier. I suggest to you with all seriousness that a man who has exposed himself like this one does not need your protection, nor does he justify getting it. 
I think I need say no more about that. This motion is not directed at Miss Morosi! This motion is directed at Ministers! He says in his allegations against Ministers that Ministers were involved. Let us look at that side of it. 
Ministers were involved? What is his evidence of this- statements in the Press, resignations from my office, misuse of Commonwealth Police, lying propaganda from the office of the former  Senator Murphy;  but there is no evidence of any of these things. There is no suggestion that resignations from my office have anything to do with whether I or anyone else knew of these unsupported and unsubstantiated allegations made by the honourable member. There is no evidence whatever that resignations from my office indicate my knowledge of any of these things- none whatever. The resignation of my former Press secretary, he stated himself, had to do with his disagreement with me about the way a certain Press story might have been handled. 
He was dismissed from my office. (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
He was sacked, if you like. 
I am entitled to have work for me whoever I choose. 
What I am suggesting is that the reason for this dismissal had nothing to do with, nor does it confirm in any way, the allegations made by the honourable member. 
What is the evidence of the misuse of Commonwealth Police? The honourable gentleman knows nothing of how the Commonwealth Police came to be involved in the investigation that led to the arrest of  Mr Alan  Felton, in possession of property taken from Miss Morosi 's house in a truck with false number plates on it. The honourable member gives us no evidence to suggest that there was any misuse of the Commonwealth Police. In this matter the Commonwealth Police received information that 
Miss Morosi 's house would be entered at a certain time on a certain day. They carried out their duty and they went to that scene. Within 10 minutes of the time of which they had been informed that the entry would be made, the entry was made. They saw the offence take place. They arrested  Mr Felton  at the scene.  Mr Felton  was charged;  Mr Felton  pleaded guilty; and  Mr Felton  was convicted in the Sydney Court this morning. Is that an improper use of the Commonwealth Police? Would the honourable member have chosen to say that the Commonwealth. Police should not have gone to the scene of a suspected offence; that they should not have taken action against  Mr Felton;  that he should not have been convicted? Does the honourable member suggest that there was any misuse of the Commonwealth Police in that? There has not been one word of evidence of a misuse of the Commonwealth Police. But this allegation is made under privilege over the whole of Australia, irresponsibly and without care for the consequences. 
The next accusation was made against the former  Senator Murphy,  who is at the moment, of course- it may have escaped your notice,  Mr Speaker-  a High Court judge. Normally matters of this kind are not permitted to be said in this Parliament against a justice of the High Court. But apparently that has not been noticed. 
He happens to be one now,  Mr Speaker,  and I would think you would require the honourable member for Mackellar to be able to distinguish in that way between the 2 positions of  Senator Murphy.  But no evidence of any lying propaganda has come back from the office of  Senator Murphy.  It is an unsupported accusation by the honourable member. There is no evidence whatever of any lying propaganda from  Senator Murphy's  office- merely an unsupported allegation, like everything else. Surely the honourable member for Mackellar has a statutory declaration to support that allegation or, if he does not have one, surely he can get one within the next four or five hours. 
-I should imagine that  Mr Felton  and the private inquiry agents who have been employed with  Mr Felton,  and the solicitor who has been employed, I understand full time, to back  Mr Felton  in this exercise- surely the honourable member for Mackellar will be able to get a statutory declaration to prove the lying propaganda that has come from  Senator Murphy's  office. No problem about that, I am sure; no problem at all! If the honourable member were able to do that it would be consistent with the rest of his conduct that he has shown in this most lamentable speech to this House. So now he wants us to have an inquiry- a public inquiry- because he is the kind of man who, under privilege in Parliament, will get up and make unsupported allegations or allegations supported only by a statutory declaration from a man who has been convicted of a criminal offence. He wants us to have an inquiry on the strength of that sort of thing. Does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  support him in this? Does the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  support him in this? Does the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  support him in this? 
I am trying to get an answer and so far I have not got one. Perhaps the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  would support the honourable member for Mackellar in this. 
-Perhaps he would. But he does not seem even to be too sure about that. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  I am not going to be moved by the kinds of allegations that I have heard in this House today coming from a man who has been convicted on this very day of a criminal offence. I am not going to be moved by allegations made by the honourable member for Mackellar who, for 19 long years, I have heard making unsupported allegations in this House that go fundamentally to a man's credit and to everything that involves his loyalty to his country. For 19 long years in this House I have heard him making unsupported allegations of that kind and so no more will I take notice of them. As long as I am satisfied about Miss Morosi 's competence. and integrity she will remain a member of my staff. I am satisfied about her competence and integrity and nothing that the honourable member has said has caused me to have any doubt in my mind on that matter. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That business of the day be called on. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I did say that. 

 - Mr Speaker, the honourable member is debating the subject. 
Question put- 
That business of the day be called on. 
in reply- In concluding the debate on these 2 Bills, we have reached quite an important stage in the development of the consideration by Parliament of them. This is the fourth occasion on which these 2 Bills have been before Parliament, and on each of the other occasions the Opposition has rejected in entirety the provisions of the 2 Bills. On the other hand, the Government put it to Parliament and to the nation that it was necessary to develop the scope and powers of the Australian Industry Development Corporation in the interests of developing Australia's basic resources over a wide field, and strengthening Australian control of those resources. I thought that case was accepted by the great majority of the Australian people and I thought that it was a compelling case. I continued to be surprised when the Opposition rejected it. Now, after 3 parliamentary examinations of this legislation, after the appointment of a Senate committeeand the Senate has full power to make available the report of that committee if it wishes- after that very lengthy process of debate and examinationI suppose one of the most lengthy and intensive on any measure that has ever entered this Parliament- finally the Opposition has agreed to accept the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I am very grateful for that indeed because it does recognise the case put continuously by the Government since these Bills were first debated in 1973. 
The strengthening of the AIDC which this Bill represents will be very important. I mention in relation to some of the criticisms which have been made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and others that the AIDC is an independent body. It makes its decisions about what it will invest in, or will not invest in, as it sees fit. That is one of the conditions that has been required by everybody in this Parliament, mostly the Opposition. Continuously the Opposition has said that a body of this kind must be independent; it must not be subject to the dictates of the Government or of the relevant Minister. Now we are told that this independence allows the AIDC to operate without proper control and responsibility. I point out that the Opposition cannot have it both ways. The AIDC needs to have that degree of independence so as to make its own decisions free of what would be called political and other influences. So, the Opposition cannot complain at lack of responsibility. 
Also, the AIDC is not run by a group of people with ideological concepts which are even similar to those of the Government. The AIDC has a board of directors who include some most distinguished directors. These are people with long and distinguished experience and achievement in private industry. Decisions made by them are made in the context of their own experience. As in every area, some decisions result in success, some decisions result in profits; others do not. 
The AIDC is no different from any other organisation in this respect. 
The right honourable member for Lowe said that I had said at one stage something that gave the impression that the Bill relating to the National Investment Fund Bill did not meet my requirements but in some way had been foisted on the Government by, he said,  Dr Westerman.  He would mean  Sir Alan  Westerman who is the  chairman  of the board of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. That claim is not true. I said once in this House that the wording of the legislation was not mine; it had been prepared over a long period by members of the Public Service and had been drafted by the Parliamentary Draftsman, as the right honourable member for Lowe would know. It was not my drafting. It was not my wording. That is what I said on that occasion. 
I have always believed that the National Investment Fund is an essential part of the machinery of the AIDC. The AIDC must have access, as any corporation which is attempting to perform this vitally important role in the economy must have access, to Australian funds. But, when it was first designed, the AIDC was deliberately excluded from access to Australian funds- not with the intention of making it more effective or giving it better resources but quite the opposite. It was recognised by us and I think all of those who examined the situation that the AIDC should have access to Australian funds on something like a comparable basis with other organisations. That is what this Bill proposes to do. At no stage was the National Investment Fund Bill designed to give the AIDC any advantage over anybody else. It was designed to provide it with a comparative situation. 
I regret that the Opposition has not yet been convinced of the importance of the NIF. It is an important development. It is important to have a national fund to which Australian citizens who want to contribute to the development of their own nation can freely contribute. Nobody is required to do so. It would be a free decision on the part of every contributor. The argument that a nation of this kind should not have a fund of this sort is quite indefensible. I think that almost every comparable nation has something of this kind, that is, a fund to which an individual citizen who wants to contribute to the development of his own country can do so through a body which has public responsibility and public accountability. 
Well, it is that. It is not anything more than that. It is a fund that is designed to give the fund itself the same position as other bodies- insurance companies, superannuation funds and so on- that are already in the business. The Bill does not give the NIF any advantage over them. 
-AU sorts of things could happen later on if one has the numbers in Parliament. The point I have made about this legislation all the way through is that the Government never has attempted to impose anything upon Parliament. It has given Parliament the full opportunity to make decisions. There is no better example of that than there is in the National Interest Division of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which we are discussing. Apart from the fact that the AIDC can make decisions upon its own financial and economic judgment, there may be other matters in which it is in the national interest to provide assistance for groups of people who are performing some national purpose which may not appear to be economic or financial at that point but which, perhaps, has terrific potential. 
Yes. I can give an example of a group of people from whom I received a delegation last night. They were vegetable growers from northern Tasmania and they told me of the facts of their situation. They told me that way back in 1 950 they were receiving a price for their peas and other vegetables which was as high as the price they receive now. It seems to me to be quite astonishing that in 1974-75, 25 years later, with the price of those goods to the retail consumer five or six times what it was in 1 950, those people in Tasmania, growing vegetables in perhaps the best possible place in the world to grow them, where production conditions are favourable, are getting a price today no higher than they were getting in 1950. There is something seriously wrong with that situation. If that situation is looked at it will be seen that what they need is capital. What they need is expert advice about marketing and about processing. What they need is capital to secure this advice. 
At the moment, according to the ordinary precepts of free enterprise financing and investment, they are not a good proposition. But there are thousands of them in the north of Tasmania who may not be a good financial proposition according to the precepts of investment at the moment, but who are a good proposition as far as the people of this nation are concerned. This is the kind of thing which I think ought to be brought within the scope of this national interest division. The AIDC should have the power and responsibility of designing some kind of organisation that will bring these needs to those farmers. It may do so in conjunction perhaps with some private enterprise concern that is able to process and sell their products- and with, if necessary, the backing of funds provided by this Parliament. 
One of the matters that I would expect to have examined after the passage of this legislation by this House and by the Senate would be a proposition of that kind. Can we design a way of putting the vegetable growers of northern Tasmania into a profitable business? My answer to that question would be: 'Yes'. I would be prepared to put a proposition to this Parliament and ask members of the Opposition which way they would vote on that. I would be prepared to arrange a feasibility study to see what can be done for these people, to design a structure to allow them to process and market their goods and to back that with funds. I would be prepared to ask the members of this Parliament, here and in the Senate, whether they too would be prepared to back them under the National Interest Division of the AIDC. That is where I believe this measure can best be used. 
It has never been the intention of the Government, through this measure, to replace private enterprise. It has been the intention of this Government to assist private enterprise. Those farmers in northern Tasmania are private enterprise. It has been the intention of this Government to use the AIDC to help co-ordinate large projects like, for instance, the petrochemical project in South Australia at Redcliffs. That is an example of where, unless there is some initiative and some leadership by a body which has the backing of government, there will not be the degree of Australian ownership and control that is necessary at the same time as there is availability of funds and resources to develop an industry of that kind. 
The AIDC has been seen by the Government and by me as an assistant and a supporter of small free enterprise that needs support in order to compete with big enterprise. Those farmers, like so many other farmers in the rest of Australia, are exploited by big enterprise and they need the backing of the Government if they are to defend themselves against that exploitation. The Government is similarly concerned with big organisations. If the bigger organisations are to hold their own against the multinational corporations which are so powerful and so extensive they will need the support of the Government. It was for those reasons mostly that the Government saw the value of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
Where the Government wants to proceed more independently, in the case of national ownership, it does so by legislation such as the legislation introduced by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in relation to the Pipeline Authority and the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Those bodies are exclusively government enterprises but the AIDC is not. It was never intended to be that kind of body. I have made that clear since we first debated these Bills in this House. I have said on a number of occasions in the past that the Opposition was taking an exclusively ideological view- an unreal view- of these Bills. The Opposition was not considering them practically or realistically. Now it is doing so. The Opposition has gone half the way and I am grateful for that. The National Investment Fund Bill is essential for the development of the AIDC, and the Government will continuously place before the Parliament the necessity for enacting that legislation. 

<graphic href="093131197502206_46_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502206_46_3_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502206_46_3_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502206_46_3_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197502206_46_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and the accompanying Appropriation Bill (No. 4), which I shall shortly introduce, seek appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the services specified in the Schedule to each Bill. Appropriations totalling approximately $110m-$70.6m in Bill (No. 3) and $39.7m in Bill (No. 4)- are sought to cover expenditures up to 30 June 1975 resulting from the Darwin cyclone. 
In addition, appropriations amounting to $225,260,000 are sought to give effect to the arrangements agreed upon at the Premier's Conference on 14 February for the provision of additional funds to the States to assist employment and to meet certain other commitments for financial assistance to the States, particularly in respect of welfare housing, the Tasman Bridge and other disasters. The provisions for these purposes are included in Bill (No. 4). The Bills also include provisions for a number of other items for which funds additional to those appropriated by Appropriation Acts (Nos 1 and 2) are required in advance of the normal additional Estimates Bills which we expect to bring before the Parliament, as usual, early in April. 
Darwin Cyclone 
The cyclone which struck Darwin in the early hours of Christmas morning largely demolished the city. Honourable members will be aware that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  gave very full details of the extent of the damage and losses and the resulting problems when he introduced the Darwin Reconstruction Bill into this House on 11 February 1975. 
The Government moved quickly to meet the situation. I visited Darwin, as Acting Prime Minister, on Boxing Day and as a result of what I saw there I authorised the use of all resources at the disposal of the Government for the relief of the city, the evacuation of the majority of its population, the provision of services to care for the evacuees and for the cleaning up of the city and the restoration of essential services. The Natural Disasters Organisation and the Defence Force, the Departments of the Northern Territory, Housing and Construction, Social Security, Manufacturing Industry, and elements of other departments all contributed to the relief operations. I take this opportunity of recording the 
Government's appreciation of the tremendous effort on the part of all concerned. 
The normal processes of administration in Darwin were seriously disrupted by the cyclone. Because of this, the amounts included in these Bills for many of the items of expenditure in respect of the cyclone up to 30 June 1975 are very broad estimates only. Nor can we be confident that all the expenditures that need to be the subject of appropriations have yet been clearly identified. Accordingly, contingency provisions of $ 15m in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $10m in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) are being sought. These contingency provisions would be available only for expenditures resulting from the Darwin cyclone. 
I now refer briefly to some of the more significant items of expenditure resulting from the cyclone for which appropriations are sought. 
Special Benefit Payments -$3.5m 
Persons who were evacuated from Darwin and those who remained were given an emergency cash payment equivalent to 2 weeks' special benefit free of means test. From 9 January 1975 a similar type of payment was made to persons who qualified under a more liberal means test than normally applies to special benefit. From 6 February Darwin people residing in the southern States were entitled to receive special benefit subject to the normal means test conditions. An appropriation of $3.5m is sought for these payments. 
Evacuation of Population- $3.5m 
The sum sought in this item is to cover the cost of air charters for the massive air lift that was organised and to pay for fuel, tyres and essential repairs for the vehicles of self evacuated persons, and fares of evacuees between southern cities and country centres. 
Repatriation of Population- $2.5m 
The Government has undertaken to meet the cost of returning evacuees to Darwin at the appropriate time. This amount is specifically required to meet the return fares of nonGovernment employees. Departments will meet the cost of returning their own employees. 
Provision of Emergency Food Supplies-$2,050,000 
Under the state of emergency which existed it was necessary for foodstuffs to be issued to the population of Darwin. 
Repairs and Maintenance-$26.7m 
The Department of Housing and Construction proceeded promptly with the task of clearing the streets, restoring electric power, water supply and sewerage, and with repairs to buildings. Some of these were temporary repairs to enable shelter or working space to become quickly usable. Others were of a more substantial kind. 
As an indication of what was achieved, the program for the restoration of public utilities envisaged that by day 35 water supply would be available to all areas requiring supply. That was achieved with very minor exceptions as was the restoration of sewerage facilities. It was planned to waterproof .1000 houses by day 35. Over 1400 houses plus 83 flats were repaired to this standard by then. Fifty per cent of major public buildings were to be be waterproofed and temporarily repaired and this target was also achieved. All roads were cleared to permit traffic and all major roads were cleared fence-to-fence by 10 January. 
The achievements reflect a magnificent effort by all concerned. There were very significant contributions by the Defence Force, repair gangs whose equipment included equipment lent by various State authorities and the trade unions' Darwin volunteer aid program. 
Emergency Accommodation 
An amount of $2.1m is sought for Commonwealth Hostels for the operation of emergency facilities and the repair of existing hostels, and $1,960,000 for the cost of hiring the vessel Patris' to provide emergency accommodation. In addition, $ 15m is sought for the purchase of 1000 caravans and 400 demountable units. 
Compensation for Surrendered Residential Titles 
To facilitate the reconstruction program, owners will be encouraged to surrender titles to residential blocks. As a general rule, compensation will be paid for surrendered titles at precyclone values or the amount paid at auction, whichever the greater. An initial $lm to meet expected payments to 30 June is sought for this purpose. 
Interim Darwin Reconstruction Commission and Darwin Reconstruction Commission 
Provision of $ 100,000 is made for the administrative expenses of the Interim Commission and a further $100,000 for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission to be established under the Darwin Reconstruction Act. No appropriation is sought in the present Bills for the major reconstruction programs to be put in hand under the authority of the Commission as it is not expected that substantial funds will be required before 1 July 1975. Any requirements that do arise before then can be met from the special contingency fund for Darwin cyclone expenditures. 
Compensation for Personal Injury and Death 
Compensation for personal injury and death arising from the cyclone will be paid along the lines proposed in the National Compensation Bill 1974 which is currently before the Senate. An appropriation of $300,000 is sought for this purpose. 
Loans to Small Businesses 
Loans will be available to small businesses unable to obtain finance from normal sources to enable them to return to operation as soon as possible. These loans will be available through the Commonwealth Trading Bank and $lm is sought to enable advances to be made to the bank in the period up to 30 June 1 975. 
Other items arising out of the Darwin cyclone 
Provision is made for the temporary location in Brisbane of some former Darwin-based elements of the Department of the Northern Territory. Provision is also made for additional allowances to servicemen, members of the police force on duty during the emergency, and for Darwinbased public servants temporarily located in southern cities. Various departments have incurred specific additional administrative expenditures as a result of the cyclone. Additional appropriations have been sought under the relevant items. 
Payments to the States 
Appropriation Bill (No. 4) will authorise the provision of amounts aggregating $149,260,000 for payments to the States in 1974-75 to assist employment. This represents portion of a total amount of $2 40m additional funds for the States and their authorities which the Australian Government undertook to support following discussions at the Premiers Conference on 14 February. The remaining $90,740,000 of those funds is made up of an addition to the State government's Loan Council borrowing programs of $40,740,000 and additional borrowing allocations for the States' larger authorities totalling $50m and is therefore not relevant to this Bill. 
More specifically, the Bill provides for additional general revenue grants of $60m, additional capital grants, representing portion of the increases in the State government's Loan Council programs, of $19,260,000. additional grants of $30m for roads, and $40m for special employment purposes. All these funds are being provided on the basis of firm assurances by the States that they will be used in such a way that they have the greatest practicable effects in terms of employment within the remainder of this financial year. These funds will have a substantial effect in enabling the States to retain employees whose jobs would otherwise have been at risk and in enabling them to take on additional employees. Details of the amounts to be paid to each State are set out in a table which I ask to have incorporated in Hansard. 
This table also includes the distribution of additional amounts to be provided for welfare housing, to which I shall refer in a moment. The roads grants will be subject to provisions of the National Roads Act 1974 and the Roads Grants Act 1974. The special employment-creating grants will be subject to conditions of an appropriate kind, as agreed with the Premiers. The employment grants scheme will, of course, be in addition to the on-going Regional Employment Development scheme, for which further funds are also being sought. 
An additional $65m is being provided for payment to the States for welfare housing activities under the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. Of this amount, $47m is for State housing authorities' programs and $18m for disbursement through the Home Builders' Accounts to assist families of low and moderate incomes to acquire their own homes. With the additional $6 5m now provided, the total allocation to the States for welfare housing in 1974-75 will reach $375m, an increase of $156m over the 1973-74 allocation. An amount of $4m has also been included in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) for additional housing loans in 1974-75 in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 4) also authorises the provision of financial assistance of $6m for Tasmania in 1974-75 in connection with the disaster that occurred in Hobart on 5 January 1975 when the Australian National Line's bulk-ore carrier the Lake Illawarra hit the Tasman Bridge with consequent loss of life and serious damage to the bridge. The Australian Government has undertaken to meet the full costs incurred by the State and its authorities on agreed measures associated with or attributable to the bridge collapse, including assistance to the State in respect of the investigation of a proposal' for a further permanent bridge across the Derwent River. 
The Bill also provides for funds additional to those provided in the Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1974-75 to assist New South Wales and Victoria in meeting the cost of agreed natural disaster relief and restoration measures. The additional funds have been made necessary by damage caused by bushfires in the western region of New South Wales and by further flooding in various areas in Victoria. 
Other items 
I mentioned earlier that the Bills included provisions for a number of items, additional to the items relating to the Darwin cyclone and assistance to the States, for which further appropriations are required in advance of the normal Additional estimates. In Appropriation Bill (No. 3), an additional $85m has been included for the Regional Employment Development Scheme which is designed to create employment opportunities in areas of relatively high unemployment. Already some 3000 projects to cost $76m have been approved under this scheme, and the Australian Government is committed to provide $60m in respect of these. These projects will provide employment for over 24 000 people, including more than 21 000 from the unemployed. Additional projects are being approved progressively. Emphasis is placed on projects which are able to be commenced promptly and completed in a reasonably short period. The cost of income maintenance payments to individuals under the structional adjustment assistance scheme is expected to reach $69m by the end of 1974-75. Accordingly, provision has been made for an additional $57.2m in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). 
 Amounts of $6.2m for the National Employment and Training Scheme-the NEAT scheme- and $7.85m for the national apprenticeship assistance scheme are required to supplement existing appropriations- the first because of an unexpected increase in the number of trainees under the scheme and the second as a result of the Government's decision last month to increase significantly the subsidies payable to employers under the scheme and to pay a training bonus to employers who fail to qualify under the scheme but who take on apprentices. 
An additional $4m is sought in respect of hostel accommodation for the aged. The increased requirement arises because of a greater number of applications for assistance than expected when the maximum capital grant was raised to $9,000 a unit following amendment of the Aged Persons Hostels Act in December. An additional $4.5 m is sought to meet the cost of providing nursing home and domiciliary nursing care for veterans. 
There has been a marked improvement in 1974-75 in the rate of progress in the construction of housing and other capital facilities for the Services. Thus, $8.07 lm is being sought for additional advances to the States for housing being erected for servicemen and $8.36 lm for other capital facilities being constructed by the Department of Housing and Construction. An amount of $19.5m is being provided for the purchase for defence purposes of the Leyland site at Waterloo in Sydney. 
Among the remaining amounts included in Appropriation BDI (No. 3) are a number which are needed because of the effect of the devaluation of the Australian dollar on the value in other currencies of amounts appropriated for payments overseas. The amount of $4.4m sought for food aid is one such item. 
There is also a number of other particular items for which amounts of additional funds are sought. These include a payment of $2m to the Medical Research Endowment Fund and contributions to the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research and to the Howard Florey Institute of Experimental Physiology and Medicine, $500,000 each; $ 1.1m for the Department of Labor and Immigration for additional staff; $ 1.35m for the Australian Film Corporation; $723,000 for the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission, $650,000 for additional staff for members and senators; $500,000 for grants to eligible organisations under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act; $537,000 for Expo 75 at Okinawa; $lm subsidies on ship construction and amounts of $6.2m and $5.3m for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory Education Services respectively for additions to staff establishments and other increased costs. 
In Bill (No. 4) an amount of $ 1 8.57m is sought for the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. This is required to finance the purchases of ships and to meet unforeseen changes in the amounts and timing of commitments such as the salvaging of the 'Lake Illawarra' and the effects of the devaluation of the Australian dollar. An amount of Sim is also sought for expenditure under the River Murray Waters Act. It will be clear from the nature of the items included in these Bills that the granting of these appropriations could not be deferred until the time of the normal additional estimates. They need to be dealt with expeditiously. I commend the Bills to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Garland)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund totalling $288,572,000 for the services outlined in my second reading speech on the introduction of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1974-75. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Garland)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The balance in the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1974 was $739,294,744. 
Under the existing superannuation scheme, a contributor who has attained the age of 60, or a contributor, the age for whose retirement is fixed by law at an earlier age than 65 and who retires on attaining that age, is entitled as from the date of his retirement to receive a pension. 
Under the new superannuation scheme for Austraiian Government employees approved by the Government for introduction on 1 July 1 975, a contributor may receive a pension based on his actual contributory service and reduced in accordance with the number of years by which his age at retirement falls short of age 60, provided the conditions of service applying to him permit voluntary early retirement before age 60 or he is retired involuntarily before age 60. 
The retiring ages for officers of the Public Service are prescribed in section 85 of the Public Service Act, the lowest age at present being age 60. The Public Service Board has indicated that it favours amendment of the Public Service Act to permit voluntary retirement at age 55 and is initiating consultation with departments as an initial step in examining the question of the desirability of having additional compulsory early retirement provisions. There has been no decision by the Government to introduce legislation to amend section 85 of the Public Service Act. 
The Postmaster-General's Department does not make employer contributions to the Superannuation Fund. Under section 96F(1) of the Post and Telegraph Act 1901-1973, however, the Post Office is required to meet, by payments to the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the employer superannuation liability in respect of its employees, who are contributors under the Superannuation Act 1922-1974. During the financial year 1973-74, the amount paid by the Post Office in discharging this liability was $ 103,820,000. 
The Royal Australian Mint, which is part of the Treasury, and the Australian Government Publishing Service which is part of the Department of the Media, are business undertakings and in 1973-74 paid amounts of $1 1 6,475 and $281,000 respectively to Consolidated Revenue to meet their employer superannuation liabilities. No other Department as such is required to make similar contributions, but most Australian Government bodies that are 'approved authorities' under the Superannuation Act are required to meet their employer superannuation liability by payments to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Special Minister of State in answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1862 on 5 December 1974 (Hansard, page 4847). 
ns- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) I am not aware of such action by the major trading banks and enquiries I have made have not produced any evidence to support it. Bank liquidity has risen strongly since September partly reflecting steps taken by the authorities over recent months to add to the liquid assets of banks. Banks have been assured by the Reserve Bank that banking policy will be administered so that bank liquidity will be adequate to support current policy which is aimed at providing appreciably more finance by way of new lending towards meeting the basic immediate needs of the economy for finance. However, lending policy does not provide that bank finance should be readily available to meet all demands arising from inflation. The major trading banks have responded to the improved liquidity position by greatly increasing their rates of new lending: in the four weeks to 5 December 1974 the weekly rate of new overdraft approvals was more than one-third higher than in November and more than  Vh  times the rate in the three months to 8 October. 
Banks normally hold the bulk of their liquid assets to Treasury Notes and other short-term Government securities. 
The bulk of releases of funds from banks' Statutory Reserve Deposit Accounts with the Reserve Bank since June 1974 was used to offset partly a very heavy drain on resources. Since that drain abated, funds released' have added to the level of liquidity. The releases generally reflect initially in increases in banks' holdings of Treasury Notes and other short-term Government securities. Such an increase in liquidity of banks enhances their ability to undertake increased lending. (See answer to Part ( 1 )). 
Advances to property developers are only a minor proportion of total bank advances outstanding. Not all property developers are engaged in speculative ventures. 
5 ) See answer to ( 4) above. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, pages 1714-5) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my ministry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to the right honourable member's question, I refer him to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)to (4) The attached schedule provides information relating to civil defence exercises conducted in premises occupied by the Australian Taxation Office. In the case of Treasury Central staff no comparable exercises were conducted. However as an integral part of their introduction to the Treasury it has been standard practice for new officers to be advised of the actions they should take to prepare themselves for an emergency evacuation should the occasion arise. 
In his answer to Part 3 of question 548 (Hansard 19 September 1974, page 1621) the Prime Minister indicated the leading role being taken by the Australian Government in preparedness for civil emergencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) See answer to (1). 
Statutory Authorities, Commissions, Panels of Inquiry Appointed by Government since December 1972  (Question No.  2174) 
Whatever the relationship between the Government and the ACTU is, the Opposition would have a much inferior one if it happened to be the government. I would think the relationship between the ACTU and the Government over the last 2 years has been the closest that has existed between the ACTU and any government for at least 23 years and possibly even more. I would imagine that the relationship we would have if the Opposition happened to be the government would be changed into what I would call the 'Fraser method of confrontation'- back to the penal powers; trade union leaders in gaol; imposing fines upon trade unions. I suppose that is the kind of relationship with the ACTU that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has in mind. But that is not ours. 
I pointed out the other day in a statement that it would be of great advantage to Australian workers if indexation were introduced. Indexation could be effective only if the unions and the workers in general were satisfied that claims beyond indexation for cost of living reasons or for other reasons, with certain exceptions, should not be made. I think it is unfortunate that the ACTU has not been able to make this position more clear to the Commission. That was the point I was making. I hope that this will eventuate in the next few weeks. I am sure that what the Minister for Labor and Immigration has done and what I am trying to do will be conducive to that end. 
-In the preparation of the Budget, of course, these matters will be taken into account. The additional and rising costs that have flowed to the States and to the local government bodies as a result of past CommonwealthState financial relations- they have come from 23 years of government by the Party of which the honourable member is a member- will, of course, continue to be under examination by me and by the Treasury. At the same time, I point out that in the last 12 months the Australian Government has given direct assistance in respect of water and sewerage amounting, in the case of New South Wales, I think, to about $40m. I would prefer to make the choice to operate in that way rather than to extend tax deductions to increased amounts for ratepayers. Honourable members will realise that proceeding in that way tends to redress the progressiveness, the decided equity and fairness of the  taxsystem,whichagainhasbeenestablished  over many years, because the higher the income the greater the value of the tax deduction. If, for instance, a person is paying two-thirds of his income in taxation, he gets as a tax deduction two-thirds of the amount of rates which he pays. If a person is paying one-third or one-fifth of his income in taxation, he gets back only one-third or one-fifth of the amount which he pays in rates. That position seems to be quite inequitable and it is not the policy ofthe Government to extend the system of that type of deduction. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
When this Bill was before the Senate an amendment was proposed to clause 11 by  Senator Wriedt  on behalf of the Government in the following terms: 
At end of proposed section 16, add ', but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid remuneration- 
at the rate that was applicable immediately before the commencement of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1 974; or 
if no rate was so applicable- at such rate as is prescribed'. 
I think that the amendment is self-explanatory. 
I do not intend to enter into the debate on these measures now. All I want to say is that I have listened to the debate. I have taken note of what honourable members have said. These things will be examined and taken into account. In each case I will communicate the results to the honourable members concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
The estimates of the cost have been published in the White Paper. In estimating costs allowance is always made for increases especially at times like the present. One can never say that one can get anything better than an approximation of what is actually going to happen. In relation to increases in taxation that might occur, again this is not a strict comparison. No simple, summary answer can be given to that. 
Whether or not the levy is used does not affect the cost of the scheme. The fact that 1.35 per cent was mentioned in that White Paper and is now not the figure does not affect the cost of the scheme. 
Well - 
The Treasury has prepared estimates. There is no justification for using the figure $3,000m. Yesterday a statement of expenditure and receipts to date was issued. No doubt the honourable gentleman will be able to obtain a copy. The deficit to 28 February 1974 is shown as $ 1,678.6m. 
-I am talking about this financial year. 
-No figures are available for an anticipated deficit for the next financial year. The relationship between this figure and the cost of the Medibank scheme has not been worked out. This is a matter for the responsible Minister, the Minister for Social Security. 
I am giving the honourable gentleman the information about the figures for 1974-75. When the other figures become available they will be available to him. 
The Government has received quite a number of submissions from the Australian National Cattlemen's Council from time to time. One of the points that have been stressed is the desire for concessional rates of interest. It has been pointed out that money has been made available through the banking system at ordinary commercial rates. 
-Through the Development Bank. At present the demand for money through that means has been constantly met. The banks report that they are able to provide finance whenever a request has been made. Nobody has been turned away. If you go beyond this- this has been taken into account by the Government -if a concessional rate is provided it means that the cost of the concessional rate has to be paid by somebody else. The Government has taken carefully into account what has been submitted and will go as far as it considers reasonable and proper. These matters are under consideration now. The requests and submissions that have been made- I received some only last week- are being given full and adequate consideration by the Government. 
The responsibility of financing the Medibank scheme, like everything else the Government has undertaken, is a responsibility for the Government and the Government will effectively carry it out. Under present circumstances, when one is considering the cost of a scheme like this, one has to consider the cost of the alternative. The alternative, the mixed scheme of today, has tremendous inadequacies. The cost of those inadequacies is never measured. The cost to the community is never considered. The people of Australia have shown continuously over many years a very high degree of support for a national health scheme. This has been a matter that has continuously been voted upon and continuously been supported by the people of this nation. There is a responsibility on the Government to establish a scheme of that kind. It is something governments comprising members who now sit in opposition have failed to carry out. They have given the nation an unsatisfactory scheme with great deficiencies. The first Whitlam Government clearly stated its responsibility to establish a national health scheme. We are thoroughly committed to that. We will pay for it and it will eventually turn out to be less costly than the alternative. It will not be very long before we reach that state of affairs. 
The relationship of the cost of the scheme to the Budget deficit has to be seen according to the present state of the economy. The honourable gentleman in asking his question misstated again the present level of the deficit. The deficit has to be considered in relation to the state of the economy. At present I should imagine we have at least 10 per cent or 12 per cent under-capacity and a deficit is needed to stimulate the economy to the use of that capacity. A deficit in these circumstances is not inflationary. It is likely to induce activity in the private sector especially and is a most necessary element of public policy at this time. 
-In answer to the latter part of the question, of course taxation in Australia is not indexed and of course as income rises a higher proportion of income is taken in taxation. That has continuously been the position in Australia. It has not been changed. The effect of indexing income for taxation has been considered. It has been considered by the Asprey Committee, it is being considered now by the Matthews Committee and it has been considered by various government departments since we have been the Government. The availability of revenue has also been increasing rapidly for many reasons, and any question of indexation of taxation has to take into account the necessities of revenue over time. This will be done following the receipt of the report of the Matthews Committee, and it is possible that some changes in taxation will be made. However, I point out that tax reductions of over $ 1,000m have been brought about since we have been the Governmentthe most significant tax reductions, I should think, in history. These tax reductions have been arranged to provide equitable standardsto be fair to lower and lower medium income earners. Introduction of indexation may not have that equity about it. I will check the current estimate of deficit and make that exact information available to the honourable member so that no mistake is made about it. 
-I think I should say first of all in relation to this matter that the statement that I made was variously reported in different parts of Australia and most of the newspapers purported to report the statement without inverted commas. I instance the 'Sydney Morning Herald', the 'West Australian' and the Melbourne 'Herald'. In the case of the 'Sydney Morning Herald', the report appeared like this: 
The best possible solution was for the Thieu Government to fall. 
That report was out of context. The only correct report I saw happened to be in the Launceston 'Examiner'. The reported statement was: 
It now seems inevitable that the Saigon and Phnom Penh governments would fall. That is the best solution, a quick end with victory to one side or the other. It would have been to everybody's advantage if that had happened a long time ago. It is the only way to stop the bloodshed, carnage and suffering. 
The way in which the statement was reported out of that context, in most cases, has allowed any kind of interpretation to be put on it For example, I think the honourable gentleman whom I congratulate for being elected Leader of the Opposition said that I was exultant. I have no exultancy about anything that is happening in Vietnam. I have felt anguish about Vietnam and agony - 
... far greater than any felt by the right honourable gentleman who sits at the end of the Opposition front bench. When I said that it might be the best result if what looked like the inevitable happened, I meant that it would reduce the suffering, the killing and the tragedy of Vietnam. I want to see that happen more than anything else. I am quite sure that the Prime Minister agrees with me. 
The new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  began with a remarkable statement. He said: 'The past cannot be changed'. What a remarkable statement from the leader of the conservative forces in this nation. He said: 'The past cannot be changed but it can be restored. The past has today been restored'. I heard the echoes of all that bankrupt argument that has been put forward by former leaders of the Liberal Party in years gone by when they were in government to justify their atrocious policy towards Asia- one that has helped to kill and devastate millions of people in that area. The past cannot be changed. In Australia forces are at work again to distort facts, divide the community and create bitterness. The aim seems to be to suggest in some sort of way that the Australian Government is responsible for the defeats of the Saigon Government in Vietnam, for the refugees or for the orphans. But if anyone is responsible it is those who caused the war in Vietnam to go on for years. It is they who are responsible for the death and devastation in Vietnam, not those who wanted to end the war. 
The remarkable thing is that no one on the Opposition side of this Parliament- with the exception of one honourable member- has ever admitted that the Opposition Parties made any mistakes or that they were wrong about Vietnam in any way at all. There was never any limit to the death and destruction they would have imposed on the people in Vietnam, Cambodia or anywhere else to justify the argument that it was better to fight there than here. No one has sought to revise any of those ideas. Today we were told that the past cannot be changed but can always be restored. The new Leader of the Opposition has set out to restore that attitude, that belief, to this nation. But it is not the same everywhere. In the United States there has been a complete assessment of this bankrupt policy. I refer to an article in the Melbourne 'Age ' by Anthony Lewis of the New York ' Times ' which states: 
Unlike Vietnam, it is relatively easy to trace the American involvement in Cambodia. The crucial decisions were made in 1970 by Richard Nixon, with the advice and support of Henry Kissinger. They led inexorably, predictably, to tragedy- death and destruction for Cambodia, moral and political disaster for the United States. 
It is not any service to the United States or to any other nation to stand by and be uncritical of a policy that has that kind of result. Whatever the alternative an end to the war in Vietnam in 1 945, 1954, 1969 or 1973 would have provided-that end would have been bad enough- it would have been better than a continuation of the war that is taking place. In 1 97 1 1 wrote the following and it is, I think, even more true today: 
Not only do I agree with this view of Asian communism- 
That was the very critical view of the way communism exercised power put forward by the Buddhist monk Thic Nhat Hanh but I deplore each of its essential features which are features of communism almost everywhere else. But it still remains that China under Mao Tse Tung is no worse off than would China have been under Chiang Kai Shek; North Vietnam under Ho Chi Minn no worse off than North Vietnam under the French; and South Vietnam under the National Liberation Front is no worse off than South Vietnam under Diem or his successors or under American bombs and firepower. 
No foreign power has a right to do to Vietnam what America has done, and what Australia has run along with, because of the difference between the Communist Vietnamese and those we have backed. 
At the very least the venal dictatorship of the Nhus, the corruption of their officials and the corrupting influence of the American occupation are no better than what Hanoi or the NLF can offer. The difference does not justify the million or more Vietnamese - 
It is now 2 million-  deaths resulting from French and American intervention. 
It remains true as well that if there is to be any prospect of ending the slaughter in Vietnam we must not allow again the old divisions and old bitterness to be revived in Australia. On Thursday last the Melbourne 'Age' faced this question in an editorial with which I completely agree. It stated: 
As the death rattle sounds, the question must be asked: What happens after Vietnam? The war which has been with us for so long, either through the blood and tears of troop commitment or the niggling of uneasy conscience - 
Apparently for everywhere else but in the Opposition Parties-  rushes suddenly toward an end. The climax may breath some life into those dormant arguments - 
We heard the dormant arguments today in an attempt to have life breathed into them-  war of national liberation or gallant fight against totalitarianism; a battle in Australia's interests or a convenient manoeuvre to help legitimise the American involvement. No one would want to reopen the divisions Vietnam caused, but there is a sound reason for examining the corpse even though it is still twitching. It seems certain that South Vietnam has failed, that America has failed, that Australia, for its part, failed. 
But that sort of argument bears no weight with the Leader of the Opposition. He wants to reopen all those questions again. The editorial in the Melbourne 'Age ' goes on: 
Whether we were in Vietnam for the right or wrong political reasons, the commitment was a disaster. Of course, that is easy to say in retrospect as the North rolls on, just as it was all too easy to simplify the conflict, to see one side as good and the other as bad. War is horror. 
War as in Vietnam is horror magnified by the wholesale suffering of innocents. There is blood on everybody's hands and all the past rhetoric rings hollowly. 
But we heard it again today. 
The least- and perhaps the most- we can do about Vietnam is to learn the lessons of defeat. 
What lessons can we learn? There is no chance that any lessons will be learned by those who simplify everything into terms of world communist domination or into the domino theory. Today the Leader of the Opposition has made some progress about that. Now he is not taking a simplistic domino theory view any more. I think the 'Age' in its editorial approaches the lessons of defeat in the correct way when it states: 
Militarily that is easy enough. America wants no more of ground wars in Asia. Australia, even if it had the will, would not have the capacity to intervene unilaterally. The political lesson is simple in theory, but difficult to apply: We approach crisis as an independent nation, attempting to exercise our own judgment in the best interests. Surely slogans died in Vietnam. Now Cambodia teeters and Laos is shaky. What of Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines? To see dangers ahead in the region is not necessarily to accept the domino theory. Rather it is to see the common causes which underly the different symptoms of unrest and unease. 
What is the common cause? In any argument from the Opposition side there is never any examination of this question. It is always seen predominantly and often exclusively as a military question. I wrote about it in 1965- quite a number of years ago- and I said this: 
Millions of people in South-East Asia are hungry. They have no shelter. They have nothing that gives meaning to human life any more than an animal has that is driven to the earth by hunters. Many of them are less afraid of death than they are of being permanently hungry and of being denied human dignity. They also want to run their own countrieseven if not always democratically- and so they are nationalists. These conditions have produced tension, conflict and war. 
We are told that all this is peculiarly a result of Communist subversion. This is an impossible over-simplification. The real factor that produces tension, conflict and war in such situations is not action taken by Communists, but poverty and desperation and lack of a chance of self-determination. Poverty and desperation are not new in Asia, but they have become worse at a time when the possibility of removing them by the power of science has become greater. A former  President  of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, reminded us: 'Men do not start revolutions in a sudden passion . . . revolutions do not spring up overnight. Revolutions come from long suppression of the human spirit. Revolutions come because men know that they have rights and that they are disregarded. ' 
For many years in Vietnam there were those conditions. There was the suppression of the human spirit not only by the colonialists who lived there but also by those who were backed by the French and later by the United States in any endeavour. Again the 'Age' which has a similar view to my own states: 
Countries which have tasted colonialism- or, rather, provided a feast for the imperial powers; countries where there has been inequality; countries in which the stirrings of nationalism have joined in complex relationships with ideologies; countries in which there are cultural or racial differences: There is no identikit to fit all of the nations, but the common thread is the need for reform- social reform, political reform, agrarian reform. The tragedy of Vietnam was that instead of a political solution there was military intervention with a blind reliance on technology and an obsessive belief in the power of bombs and the might of machines. 
The result of that is what is happening now and the previous Government contributed to it. The editorial continued: 
At least the terror of Vietnam has opened our eyes. 
It may not have opened the eyes of the Opposition. 
Australia must look to its defence preparedness, the Government has that duty to the nation. As for the region, we have a responsibility to encourage groupings such as ASEAN and to stress diplomatically, as well as assisting financially, reforms which will ease strains by reducing inequalities. We have to remember that war is a defeat for man, no matter which side wins. 
What then do we need in South-East Asia and the rest of the world where there is poverty, inequality, the taste of colonialism and the stirrings of revolt and rejection? We need governments capable of social reform, political reform, agrarian reform and nationalist reform. But nowhere do we ever hear that said on the Opposition side. For the Opposition it is all a matter of the great powers. It is all a matter of a military reaction to the situation. 
Vietnam has proved that where there is a government incapable of social reform or political reform, incapable of ending widespread corruption, incapable of disproving dependence upon a foreign power, not all the armies and bombs in the world can save such a government. That has been demonstrated in the last three or four weeks. Personally, I prefer something much more liberal than the doctrinaire revolutionary force. That is why I wrote the 2 books, 'Living With Asia' and 'The Eagle and the Lotus'. I suppose very few members of the Opposition have ever done me the decency of even looking at them. 
The Opposition's spokesman for foreign affairs says that he read it a fortnight ago. 
-I am sorry. I thank the honourable gentleman very much. When he makes his speech we will see whether he has learned anything from anything. 
I think doctrinaire, uncompromising, unrelenting people are dangerous. I have met some of them and, wherever I could, I have made the choice not of them but of the more liberal and relenting. I have spoken to the leaders of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government. I have also spoken to Souvanna Phouma, Sihanouk and Adam Malik. I have spent hours talking to them and I am proud to know that they regard me as a friend. These are the kinds of men I support and these are the kinds of men I want to see leading countries in South-East Asia because I believe that they know that social, political, economic and national reforms are necessary in their countries, not only for the good of the people but also to prevent disorder, distress and war. 
But what happened when one of them was leading Cambodia? He was overthrownperhaps with the sympathy of the United States of America. Testifying after his recent visit to Cambodia, Representative Paul McCloskey, a Republican from California, said this: 
I can only tell you my emotional reaction, getting into that country. If I could have found the military or State Department leader who has been the architect of this policy, my instinct would be to string him up . . . What they have done to the country is greater evil than we have done to any country in the world. 
That was to Cambodia. It is worth noting, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said, that the real reason why the Australian people expect the Government to act, as it has done, is not just that it may reduce the scale of suffering but that we have a special responsibility to Vietnam. As he said, who rules in Saigon is not and never has been an ingredient in Australia's security. Our strength- our security- rests on factors and relationships ultimately unrelated to these events. The important factors are our relations with countries like Indonesia and those that I have just mentioned. It is for those reasons that we have to look for a foreign policy to different ingredients from those outlined a few moments ago by the Leader of the Opposition who relies upon the old military reactions and methods. The past has returned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, and the accompanying Appropriation Bill (No. 6), which I shall introduce shortly, seek appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the services specified in the schedule to each Bill. The 2 Bills constitute the normal additional Estimates for the year ended 30 June 1975 and will provide additional funds required to meet necessary expenditures up to that date. They follow 2 earlier Bills which sought additional appropriations required, particularly as a result of the Darwin cyclone and to provide additional assistance to the States, and which were enacted on 6 March. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 5) seeks appropriations for salaries and pay amounting in all to $ 175.4m. Of this, $ 138.3m is required to meet increases in rates of salary and wages that have become effective since the Budget, as a result of the operation of upwards of 460 awards and determinations. Payment of the $ 138.3m for increased rates has already been authorised under section 5 of the Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) 1974-75. 
The elements of this amount now sought under various departmental items are submitted for formal appropriation action and to clear the charges temporarily made to the special appropriation. The remaining $37. lm sought for salaries and pay also under the relevant departmental items is required to meet the cost of overtime, furlough, reclassifications, allowances and increases in staff numbers. In the latter category are 1041 staff for the Department of Social Security- 913 for processing unemployment benefits and other social welfare payments and 128 for Darwin re-settlement activities. 
Defence $152.8m is sought for the Department of Defence. Of this, $70m is for payment to Papua New Guinea to facilitate the purchase from Australia of defence assets associated with the transfer of the responsibility for the defence function to that Government. A corresponding credit will be paid to revenue in this financial year. Of the balance of $82.8m, $71m is for salaries and pay and $ 11.8m is attributable to general price increases. A further amount of $12.9m is included under the Department of Manufacturing Industry for expenditure related to defence, again mainly due to general price rises. 
Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account 
An amount of $3.5m is required for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to cover, among other things, an allocation of $2m from the Trust Account to the recently established Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund. This Fund will be administered by the Aboriginal Loans Commission and will provide loans to Aboriginals to enable them to acquire homes and to meet other personal needs. The balance of the additional provision is mainly for allocation to Aboriginal housing and building societies in Queensland. 
Independent Schools in the Territories 
Under the capital aid scheme in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the Australian Government has been reimbursing independent school authorities each year, over a period of 20 years, one-twentieth of the principal sum borrowed for approved school projects. It has now been decided that, as a measure of assistance to these schools, the reimbursement period should be halved- from 20 to 10 yearsthereby doubling the annual rate of capital reimbursement. The total reimbursement, of course, remains the same. The estimated additional cost in 1974-75 is $3.2m. 
Adult Secondary Education Assistance 
The Government has decided to introduce a new measure of assistance affecting adult students undertaking the final year of full-time matriculation studies at secondary schools and other approved institutions. The new scheme, operative from the beginning of 1975, provides means-tested living allowances and other benefits similar to those available under the tertiary education assistance scheme. The additional cash requirement in 1974-75 is $638,000. 
Foreign Affairs and Overseas Aid 
A further $4.6m is sought for expenditure on Colombo Plan aid projects because of a greater availability of equipment and other supplies in Australia which has enabled purchases for various aid projects to proceed faster than was envisaged. 
Assisted Migration Program 
To provide for increased air and sea fares, an amount of $966,000 has been included for the assisted migration program. A further $109,000 is required for payment to the Intergovernmental Commission for European Migration. 
Child Migration Education Program 
A further $1.4m is required to meet increased teaching costs in schools. 
Health Insurance Commission  $3.5m is sought for the running expenses of the Commission. This includes the cost of 1,700 new staff for 70 cash payment centres which have had to be opened following the refusal of most private medical and hospital benefit funds to act as agents of the Commission. 
Compensation for loss of or damage to Property -Victims of Cyclone Tracy 
An amount of $25m has been included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 5) to enable payment of compensation in respect of property damage resulting from Cyclone Tracy. Payments from this proposed appropriation will be conditional on the passage of separate legislation dealing with the compensation arrangements which the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation will introduce shortly. A further appropriation of $33m will be sought for this purpose in Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 in order to meet payments in the new financial year. 
Handicapped Children Assistance 
An additional $3m is provided for assistance to handicapped children reflecting an increase in the number of eligible organisations seeking grants under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. 
Australian Government Taxation Office- Sydney 
In accordance with the Government's policy to increase the proportion of its office space requirements that is Government-owned, an amount of $7.4m is being provided for the acquisition of a site in Sydney on which to erect a large office block to consolidate the various elements of the Taxation Office in Sydney which are now widely dispersed over leased accomodation. 
NCDC Construction Program 
A further $ 13m is sought to meet rise and fall payments to contractors, higher consultants' fees and larger contract payments than expected on the Commission's 1974-75 construction program. 
Civil Works Program 
An additional $8. 8m is sought because of improved progress on many projects together with increases in building and construction costs. 
Post Office 
Appropriation Bill (No. 6) seeks a further $ 127m for the Post Office to meet unavoidable increases in costs which have arisen since the Budget was framed. This will maintain the Post Office program at the level then envisaged. 
Defence Service Homes 
A further $ 15m is sought to meet increased requirements for advances under the defence service homes scheme, following the decision to increase the maximum loan to $15,000 and the liberalisation of eligibility conditions. 
Commonwealth-State Law Courts- Sydney 
Faster progress than anticipated together with rising costs has meant that a further $720,900 is required to meet the Australian Government's share of construction costs in 1 974-75. 
Acquisition of Part of South Australian Railways 
An amount of $26.434m is included for payment to South Australia in the current financial year by way of a financial adjustment in respect of the proposed acquisition by the Australian Government of part of the South Australian Railways. Details of the arrangement will be available when the formal agreement between the Australian and South Australian governments is brought before the Parliament shortly. Payment of this financial adjustment to South Australia, of course, will be subject to ratification of the agreement by the Australian and South Australian Parliaments. 
In all, Appropriation Bill (No. 5) seeks appropriations totalling $399,649,000. This includes the $138.3m already authorised under section 5 of Appropriation Act (No. I) 1974-75 for increased rates of salaries to which I referred earlier. Appropriation Bill (No. 6) seeks appropriations totalling $240,313,000. Savings are expected to occur in some appropriations already made for 1974-75. While the figures cannot be precise because of possible changes in the circumstances affecting them between now and 30 June, departments have estimated that, for various reasons, unspent appropriations will amount to $ 136.8m. As honourable members will be aware, all annual appropriations lapse at 30 June of the year in respect of which they were made. 
Nor can these savings be used to offset the additional appropriations now sought in these Bills. An information statement detailing the estimated savings has been distributed to members. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund totalling $240,313,000 for the services outlined in my second reading speech on the introduction of Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1974-75. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks interim appropriations totalling $2,691,760,000 for the ordinary annual services of the Government and is to meet expenditures which will fall due for payment in the period 1 July to 30 November 1975. Supply Bill (No. 2) 1975-76, which I will introduce shortly, seeks interim appropriations totalling $1,081,981,000 for capital works and services and payments to or for the States to enable payments to be made in respect of those services for the period 1 July to 30 November 1975. 1 now mention some provisions of particular significance for the information of honourable members. 
Food Aid 
An amount of $22.9m is sought under the Department of Foreign Affairs for expenditure on food aid. Of this, $9m is for emergency relief, to be provided to most needy countries in accordance with Australia's food aid commitment announced at the World Food Conference in November 1974. Provision has also been made for expected large shipments, in the early part of the financial year, of wheat provided by Australia under the International Wheat Agreement in order to assist in meeting an expected food scarcity in India, Bangladesh, Khmer . Republic, Laos and certain African countries. 
Compensation for loss of or damage to Property- Victims of Cyclone Tracy $33m is included under the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for payments, which connot be made prior to 30 June 1975, of compensation in respect of loss of or damage to property of victims of Cyclone Tracy in pursuance of legislation to be introduced by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. 
Aboriginal Loans Commission 
Provision is made for payments from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account to the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund- $0.5m- and to the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund$5m to permit the continuation of the financial support provided to individual Aborigines, and Aboriginal groups and enterprises, which commenced in 1974-75. 
Health Insurance Commission 
The Medibank Scheme, authorised by the Health Insurance Act 1973, will come into operation on 1 July 1975 and an appropriation of $335m is sought for payment into the Health Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Commission will draw on the Fund to make payments to eligible persons and organisations and to State Governments participating in the cost-sharing arrangements. These payments will be in the form of medical benefits to individuals in all States and of payments to State governments and hospitals in particpating States. The hospital payments will represent subsidies to participating States to the extent of 50 per cent of the net costs of operating their public hospital systems. In addition, approved private hospitals in participating States will receive payments of $16 a day for each patient. 
Australian Shipping Commission $43m is required for the Australian Shipping Commission to allow the Australian National 
Line to meet commitments entered into under the program of expansion commenced following the 1974 Budget. 
Darwin Reconstruction Commission 
The $30m provision in Supply Bill No. 2 for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission's works program includes $27m for expenditure on works in progress at 1 July 1975 and $3m for proposed new works next year. Most of the proposed expenditure will be incurred on the construction of 2,700 houses having a total estimated cost of $94.5m and for which contracts are shortly being let. 
Payments to or for the States -Treasury 
An appropriation of $ 10m is sought under the Department of the Treasury for natural disaster relief and for payments to Tasmania in respect of the Tasman Bridge disaster. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks interim appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund totalling $1,081,981,000 for capital works and services and payments to or for the States. Particular items of significance included in this Bill were referred to in my second reading speech on the introduction of Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
ns- The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following estimates of research and development work have been collected in connection with the SCORE Project being undertaken by the Department of Science. They relate to the financial year 1973-74 and do not necessarily include work of a research and development character arising incidentally to continuing policy or other functions. (l)and(2) Treasury- 56, Canberra. Australian Taxation Office-41, Canberra. Commonwealth Banking Corporation- 151, Sydney. Reserve Bank-22, 14 Sydney, 8 Melbourne. 

 Major areas of research and development work include the following: 
Treasury- study of economic trends and short-term forecasting, budgetary systems and Government accounting arrangements, resource allocation issues, financial institutions and the insurance industry, the Australian tax system; metallurgy and other research related to manufacture of coins. 
Taxation Office- Research into automatic data processing systems, study of administrative and management techniques related to taxation. 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation- Electronic data processing systems, statistical and operations research techniques applied to management problems, portfolio analysis. 
Reserve Bank- Construction and use of theoretical economic models, development of note printing machines and security techniques. 
The following estimates of current expenditure on research and development in 1973/74 include wages and other labour costs, expenditure of a non-capital nature, and overhead costs attributable to research and development work in that year: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Contrary to the impression conveyed by  Mr Leonard  Casley, the so-called Hutt River Province has not seceded from Australia and has no legal status. The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that there is no provision in the income tax law under which persons residing in the Hutt River area of Western Australia may be granted exemption from tax on income arising from sources in that area. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 26 February 1975 (Hansard, page 807). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to the answer to this question provided in today's Hansard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 4 March 1975 (Hansard, page 1029). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question was answered on 26 February 1975 (Hansard, page 810). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 have seen statements by a number of persons attribu-. ting the United Kingdom's economic problems to a variety of quite different factors, including those mentioned by the honourable member. 
Of the three countries referred to, only the United States has the same so-called classic system of company taxation as Australia. In the United States the general company tax rate is effectively 48 per cent on all income in excess of S2S,000 (a lower rate of 22 per cent applies on the first $25,000 earned). 
The Federal Republic of Germany has a split-rate system of taxing company profits under which undistributed profits are effectively taxed at 52.53 per cent and distributed profits at 24.55 per cent. 
The United Kingdom has an imputation system of taxing companies and their shareholders under which a shareholder is permitted a credit against personal income tax on dividends received to allow for some of the tax paid by the distributing company on the profits it distributes. The credit is provided through what is known as advance corporation tax, paid at the time a distribution is made, and set at a level equal to the basic rate of personal tax. From 1 April 1974, the rate of corporation tax has been 52 per cent and the basic rate of personal tax 33 per cent. 
The present rate of tax on public companies is comparatively low in terms of recent experience. 
Yes. 
and (6) Questions relating to inflation and taxation, with respect to both companies and persons, are being studied by a Committee of Inquiry under the chairmanship of Professor R. Mathews. The report of the committee, to be submitted by May this year, will be most carefully considered by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. My letter did not purport to express the Government's attitude. My colleague the Minister for Science, who is the Minister responsible for the metric conversion program, is aware of my personal views on the subject. 
I suppose the Opposition shadow Treasurer would show no concern at all for unemployment or the undercapacity in the economy and for the necessity for a very substantial deficit to increase the level of employment and of output. I should imagine that what he is telling the country is that he would do nothing positive to reduce unemployment and to get the economy going. The deficit today is the most substantial instrument that can be used by the Government for the purpose of increasing employment and output. The honourable gentleman relates the deficit to inflation. When as at present we have an undercapacity of 10 or 12 per cent in the economy, the deficit is not inflationary. The deficit is aimed directly at the economy to increase production, to get the economy going and to employ resources. 
Wherever there are resources available for employment the Labor Government will never see those resources remain unemployed because of a shortage of money. That battle was fought in this country 50 years ago, and we are not going to fight it again. The deficit at the present time is substantially one that is directed at the private sector of the economy. Apparently the honourable gentlemen opposite are quite unaware of this. I shall just give a few figures to indicate the position. The increase in the deficit above the Budget estimate includes $354m for assistance to industry and development- that is $3 54m directed straight into the private sector- and $224m increased spending in housing. It is quite wrong to imagine that the deficit is simply public spending. Two-thirds of the increased deficit is spending in the private sector directed at the employment of resources which are available for employment. 
The present figure of the deficit is about $3,300m. However, the ultimate deficit is estimated to be about $2,300m. Of that $2,300m the external deficit will be about $600m which means that the internal deficit will be considerably less than $2,000m. Probably it will end up at $ 1,700m or $ 1,800m. The deficit has been caused by an expansion in the expenditure upon resources and substantially, as I pointed out, in the private sector so that unemployment will be taken up, so that excess capacity will be used, so that goods and services will be produced and so that assets will be created. The use of the deficit in circumstances like this when there is unemployment is the most positive action that the Government can take to increase production and to offset inflationary factors. As long as this condition persists the Government will use the deficit positively in the way I have outlined. 
The main causes of inflation in Australia happened in the time when the former Liberal-Country Party Government of which the honourable member was a member was in power. It was in 1972 that the economy expanded and that the money supply rose 25 per cent at the end of the year. That was all done by the Government led by the honourable member for Lowe as a desperate attempt to remove the unemployment which was endangering his Government  's  electoral prospects. In 1 972 all the forces of inflation were liberated into the Australian economy and nothing whatever was done. There was a great need, recognised by every economist in Australia, to appreciate the Australian dollar so that an inflow of funds which were moving the economy into inflation would be regulated. But of course nothing could be done about that. The Australian Country Party ensured that that was so. So inflation began to operate. All the forces that eventually caused the 1973-74 inflation were operating before December 1972. 
Immediately our Government came to office we took the course of action which should have been taken 6 months or 12 months before if inflation was to have been moderated at all. Economists around the country have agreed that consequently the inflation that actually occurred was perhaps up to even 10 per cent less than it would otherwise have been in 1973-74. Now the honourable gentleman asks me what effect the deficit has on stimulating employment to higher levels. I have pointed out already in answer to the question of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition this morning that two-thirds of the increased deficit has gone directly into encouraging expenditure and activity in the private sector. I point out now that of the existing deficit of $3,000m more than $ 1,000m is a reduction in taxation which means that the community has more money to spend on goods and services, to remove the stocks that have been a drag on industry for some time, and to stimulate demand in general. I am quite sure that the average citizen of this country would appreciate the extent to which taxation has been reduced- more than $ 1,000m in the case of direct taxation and about $200m to $300m in the case of sales tax. This is all a direct stimulus to the economy. 
Not only our economy but also every other economy in the world has been in such a situation. One country after another has now turned to a policy of reflation. This morning there are reports in the financial newspapers and in some of the others that Japan is beginning a program of reflation. The Australian Government was one of the first to undertake the necessary action to stimulate the levels of employment and activity, to take up unused capacity and to get the economy going. I am quite sure that almost everyone in Australia applying his common sense will agree that that is a sound economic policy for the Government to follow. 
I support the Bill before the House. Despite what has been said and written about it, the Family Law Bill does not concern divorce alone. So much in it is outside that area, and yet so little of that has been discussed by honourable members who have taken part in the debate so far. It is a comprehensive Bill, the most comprehensive Bill dealing with family law ever to be introduced in an Australian parliament. It will be a legislative memorial to the man who designed it. It is of great historical importance. It is a humane and civilised proposal which covers many significant social matters other than the dissolution of marriage. 
It is possible to list at least 15 significant social provisions of the Bill. As passed by the Senate, the major provisions of the Family Law Bill provide for the establishment of a family court in Australia for the first time; the establishment of State family courts for the first time; the ability to seek matrimonial relief in the family courts, the State supreme courts or the magistrates courts without first proceeding for divorce; the abolition of all fault grounds for divorce; joint custody of children and joint responsibility for their maintenance; widely increased use of welfare officers to help in custody disputes and in the ongoing relationship between parents; the financial responsibility of each party to a marriage and to maintain the other; criteria for the provision of maintenance for spouses and children based on the applicant's need; the establishment of a family law council and an institute of family studies; and greatly increased counselling opportunities relating not merely to divorce and reconciliaton but also to the on-going problems of divorced persons, particularly in relation to their children. All these things are great advances. Some of them are completely new. They concern the way people have to live and the role of the state in helping them to solve real problems. Much more than the conflicts of divorce, much more than the doctrinaire considerations of divorce, is involved in this Bill. 
In the debate on this Bill to date many of the broad and humane provisions of the Bill have not been accepted or even examined in their own right.  Major criticisms  of the Bill have been: Firstly, that it abandons fault as a ground for divorce; secondly, that it encourages quick divorce; thirdly, that 12 months is too short a period as a criterion for breakdown of marriage; fourthly, that no immediate ground for divorce is provided; and, fifthly, that the maintenance provisions of the Bill are unfair to women. Before judging these matters, I think something should be said about the basic attitudes of the judges and about marriage and divorce. Very few people flatly assert that there is nothing wrong with the existing divorce law and that it cannot be improved. Almost everyone who has spoken in this debate has said that there could be considerable improvement, but some say not now. Very few people would say that many aspects of this Bill are not acceptable to almost everybody. Even fewer people would deny that the cost of divorce is high, that the procedure is long and complicated and that the grounds for divorce, such as adultery, desertion and cruelty, promote bitterness and hostility between the parties, alienate them further from each other and have a harmful effect on their children and on everyone associated with them. 
Often one result is 2 warring camps neither of which is wholly right or wholly wrong. Any reform which will reduce or eliminate any of these harmful, costly and damaging conditions is a good reform. The Bill will do much to reduce or eliminate delay, cost, bitterness and neglect. If it is the legitimate function of the state to enforce by legislation the prolongation of marriages, especially those which obviously have broken down, seeking to achieve this simply by obstructing the way to divorce by procedural and financial barriers is wrong and oppressive. If, as it does, the Family Law Bill seeks to dismantle some of these barriers, it is a good Bill. I cannot understand why the system of fault is assumed to be in the interests of anyone. By the time a party gets round to proving fault the marriage is clearly at an end. Why then should it be necessary to parade faults in public through the use of sordid procedures? The breakdown of marriage is a private tragedy which should not have to be paraded in public or proved like a crime. It is not a crime. 
There are many other reasons why the existing fault grounds of divorce should be replaced. The single ground provided under this BUI is a great improvement. Under this BUI divorce will be granted on the ground that the marriage has irretrievably broken down. Once the court is satisfied about that, the purpose is to see that marriage is dissolved fairly, inexpensively, without indignity and with the minimum of bitterness and hostility, and the Bill does that. Others- friends and the like- will merely know that the dissolution has taken place and will have a better chance to arrive at an understanding of the relative positions of parties rather than to pass judgment on them. I noticed a few weeks ago that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  made a point about understanding and judgment. As I understand it, Christ was slow to judge. He practised understanding and compassion. I am sure that we should approach this BUI in a spirit of understanding and compassion, and I do not believe that the emphasis laid upon fault in divorce law and practice has been anything but harmful to all those involved. 
A criticism that has been made of this BUI is that the maintenance provisions are unfair to women. This may well be so because aU laws are unfair to women. Women are part of the property system and their status reflects its requirements. It is not as though women are protected by the existing law concerning family relations. Women occupy an inferior social status in Australia and society still wants to keep them in that position. The existing marriage and divorce law provides no haven for women. It is so bad that almost any change would be an improvement. The changes recommended in this legislation offer significant advances for women. The advances may not be the optimum in some eyes; nevertheless they represent a major redress of the current imbalance. The provisions in the BUI governing the welfare, maintenance and custody of children are important because the protection of children is probably the strongest justification for intervention by the state to regulate the dissolution of marriage. The more extreme denunciations of the BUI have suggested that it Will enable husbands to abandon their wives, leaving them and their children without protection. It has also been asserted that it is better for children to be brought up in a home with both parents. This is true if the parents are not hostile or fighting with each other. However, if parents are so opposed to each other, expert opinion is very far from being unanimous that it is still better for the children to be brought up by both parents together. Certainly there would be cases in which it would be not only preferable but necessary for the mental and physical well being of the children if their parents separated and the children lived with one or other parent. 
There is a question of whether children have been left without protection by the Bill. It is perhaps relevant to ask how the provisions of the BUI differ from the existing law. The existing law requires parents to maintain their children; so does the BUI. The existing law prevents a divorce decree from becoming final until the court is satisfied that proper arrangements have been made for the welfare of the children so does the BUI. In addition to continuing these measures and introducing uniformity where the existing law is State or Territory law, the Bill contains some additional provisions such as those for separate legal representation of children in proceedings, enforcement of custody and access orders and greater use of welfare officers. I can find nothing in the Bill to suggest that wives left by their husbands will be deprived of rights that they now have regarding maintenance and custody of their children. 
As I understand them, the provisions of the Bill under which a party to a marriage can apply for maintenance have the effect of making entitlement to maintenance depend on the needs of the applicant and the ability of the respondent to pay. The Bill contains a long list of matters which are related to these criteria that the courts are to take into account in reaching a decision. The inclusion of such matters as the age, state of health, income, property of the parties, a standard of living that is reasonable, the duration of the marriage and the terms of any property order, as well as the care of young children, seems to me to meet the objection of critics who claim that wives will be left without adequate means and without entitlement to maintenance. These and other matters listed would direct the court's attention to the problems relevant to the situation of a woman left without adequate means and would ensure that she was properly provided for. With reference to the matter of providing maintenance to enable the applicant to re-train for work, this is not a direction to the court to drive a woman out to work; it is a direction to have regard to the possibility that a woman, in appropriate circumstances and with the necessary ability, could be retrained. If she were too old or physically unable to be re-trained she would not be driven out to work. I see nothing in the Bill that suggests that. 
It remains to say that the Bill makes what can be described only as a decisive contribution to assisting reconciliation of estranged marriage partners where reconciliation is at all possible and it lays much greater stress on that than does the existing law. The counselling and reconciliation provisions far exceed anything now provided for parties, either before or after they begin any proceedings against each other. The Family Court, with its novel charter clearly indicated in the Bill, to help people rather than to act as an inscrutable referee, should be most effective in doing whatever can be done to reconcile parties whose marriages have run into difficulty.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this measure is a most important social reform. It will affect the lives of many people. By introducing a sane, balanced law to deal with family disputes it is hoped that where marriages do break down, as they undoubtedly will continue to do under the stresses and strains of life, persons will be encouraged to adjust their transition from married life with the minimum of bitterness and animosity. At least under this legislation persons will not become financially as well as emotionally bankrupt as a result of divorce proceedings, as so often happens now. Parties to divorce proceedings may be spared these consequences towards making the effect of divorce on the children less traumatic than it is at present. This Bill does not represent the whole of the reforms which are obviously necessary in this field but it represents a realistic attempt to meet some of the most pressing human needs of today. It does so in a humane way. I hope that the Bill will pass without amendment. 
ns-On 6 March 1975  Mr Wilson  asked me a question without notice concerning the budget deficit. The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As shown in the Statement of Financial Transactions 1974-75 issued on5 March, there was an overall deficit of $2, 769.4m on the Australian Government's financial transactions in the first eight months of 1 974-75 . 
The usual concentration of tax payments in the latter part of the year means that the Government's transactions will be moving into surplus in the last quarter of 1974-75. This in turn means that the deficit for the year as a whole will be less than the figure of $2,769.4m shown for the eight months to February 1975. 
On present indications it appears that the deficit for 1974-75 may be of the order of $2,250m but that estimate will be subject to revision as the end of the financial year approaches. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to the answer to this question provided in today's Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United Nations regularly publishes retail price indexes relating to living expenditures of United Nations' officials in a number of cities throughout the world. The statistics are presented in issues of the United Nations publication 'Monthly Bulletin of Statistics' for February and August of each year. A note attached to the statistics states: 
It should be emphasised that since the statistics relate to United Nations' officials whose consumption patterns differ from those of the indigenous population, the indexes cannot be considered as reflecting the general relationship of the price levels in the cities shown. ' 
Hence the statistics cannot be used to draw the conclusion that Sydney is a more expensive place to live than New York. 
The latest statistics, for June 1974, showed that the retail price index relating to living expenditures of United Nations' officials was 5 per cent higher in Sydney than in New York. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Treasury is not directly concerned with the administration of any program of grants to individual groups for any specific purpose. Advice was sought from the Reserve Bank and the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. 
The Reserve Bank has supplied the following information about the Economic and Financial Research Fund and the Rural Credits Development Fund programs. 
There are no programs in the context of the question that are administered by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation or its three Banks, the Commonwealth Trading Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Commonwealth Development Bank. However, the Commonwealth Development Bank does support research activities on an 'ad hoc' basis. Details of such research grants made during the three year period to June 1974 were provided to the right honourable member on 30 October 1974 (see Hansard pages 3 100-3 10 1 ) in reply to his question No. 75. 
1 ) and (2) (a) Economic and Financial Research Fund 
The answer to the first 2 questions is no. The answer to the third question is that the responsibility for determining monetary policy lies both with the Reserve Bank and the Government, and that responsibility will be properly exercised. There is no basis for the Press reports on which the honourable member's question happens to be based. 
The House will be aware that in December evidence had accumulated that the Australian automotive industry was in very serious difficulties. We had exact quantitative figures of accumulated stocks which showed that there had been very excessive over-buying from overseas, at rates which were running at well over 17 000 vehicles per month. The Australian market had become glutted by these excessive purchases from overseas, and great difficulties had been caused not only for the Australian producing industry but for the importing industry as well. I emphasise that this caused difficulties for the importing industry as well. " 
There was strong, convincing evidence that the Government could not possibly avoid the fact that if action were not taken there could be up to 10 000 retrenchments in the industry directly, and possibly another 10 000 indirectly. Had these retrenchments occurred that would have struck a blow at the whole of the secondary industry structure of Australia. It was a very vital and significant problem that had arisen, as I said, I think because of the miscalculation of the importing sector of the automotive industry. Having been satisfied, as a result of lengthy discussions with all sections of the industry as well as with others, of the need for it a plan was arrived at that was calculated to reduce the stocks- both the imported stocks and the Australian produced stocks- of vehicles in Australia. That was done substantially by reducing the rate of sales tax, which meant that stocks could be reduced without any added cost to the consumers of the motor cars. We hoped that the problems of the industry could be solved without imposing costs upon the purchaser of a car- and I emphasise that. 
-I think the honourable member for Wakefield would sound disappointed if anything done to protect Australian industry could possibly be successful. The plan, adopted by the Government in conjunction with the industry, has been magnificently successful. The daily sales rates in February 1975 were an all-time record and exceeded the sales in February 1974 by more than one-third. They should be compared with the sales for the month of January 1975, which were the lowest since 1972. These facts speak for themselves as a vindication of the Government's recent policies. 1 emphasise that the policies were evolved after a very fruitful series of discussions between the Government, the unions and the industry. The latter two parties- the unions and the industryhaving seen a policy that was likely to work, have carried out that policy to the letter. The Government stands by that policy. The House will be aware that the sales tax rate will increase again by  Vh  per cent in May and in each subsequent month. The economic factors at present justify the maintenance of that policy. It was directed towards encouraging short term or rapid purchases of vehicles to clear stocks. That has been achieved. I point out to the industry and to' all those involved that I stand ready to discuss with them the problems that may arise in order to arrive at practical solutions to ensure the adequate development of the Australian industry and the maintenance of production. 
ns-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia has concluded comprehensive double taxation agreements with seven countries. The countries concerned, and the dates on which the agreements were signed, are- the United Kingdom (29 October 1946, revised 7 December 1967); the United States of America (14 May 1953); Canada ( 1 October 1 957); 
New Zealand ( 12 May 1960, revised 8 November 1972); Singapore ( 1 1 February 1969); Japan (20 March 1969); and the Federal Republic of Germany (24 November 1972). 
Limited agreements dealing only with the taxation of airline profits have also been concluded with France (27 March 1969) and Italy (13 April 1972). 
Negotiations are presently in course with France for the conclusion of a comprehensive double taxation agreement and with Greece for the conclusion of a limited agreement dealing only with airline profits. Talks have also been held with the United Kingdom and the United States concerning possible revision of aspects of the comprehensive agreements currently in force with each of those countries. 
Requests for the commencement of negotiations for comprehensive double taxation agreements have been received from Belgium (1972), Denmark (1963), Fiji (1974), Greece (1964), India (1973), Iran (1974), Ireland (1956), Israel (1971), Italy (1957), Malaysia (1968), Netherlands (1958), Norway (1960), Philippines (1974), South Africa (1972), Sweden (1951), Switzerland (1961) and Yugoslavia ( 1 975 ). 
Australia has not requested negotiations with any other country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Possible alternatives to the present individual basis for the personal income tax unit are among the many taxation issues examined by the Taxation Review Committee during its review of the Australian Taxation system. 
The Final Report of the Committee will be published before the end of the present parliamentary session. 
See answers to ( 1 ) and (2 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Replacement of separate and specific concessional deductions by a standard deduction is one of the many taxation issues examined by the Taxation Review Committee during its review of the Australian taxation system. 
The Final Report of the Committee will be published before the end of the present parliamentary session. 
See answers to ( 1 ) and (2). 
It was announced on 4 December that a Bill to amend superannuation provisions for Commonwealth public servants would be introduced during the first session of 1975. That Bill will be introduced, probably in the first week of the sittings in May. There is no change whatever in the commitment of the Government on this matter. The superannuation improvements will date from 1 July 1975. The proposed scheme is, in fact, a major improvement in superannuation for Australian Government employees. At the same time, the cost of the scheme will rise by about 14 per cent. Superannuation is considered by the Government as a right of all employees. The level of superannuation at the end of a person's working life should be related to the kind of standard he or she has been able to establish during his or her working life. In Australia so far we have never achieved this standard. It is true that the present scheme is anxiously awaited by 250 000 government employees and that it will act as a model for superannuation in Australia as a whole for employees in private employment and for trade unions in their superannuation proposals. Of course the Bill will cover a limited number of people although the total of government employees is high. It will be some time before the model, desirable as it is, secures application to the community as a whole. 
The Government has decided to set up an Australian Government insurance office and the necessary legislation will be introduced by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon.  Two committees have been appointed to advise the Government generally about the state of the insurance industry, as it is called. In all these matters I have stated that consultations with the industry, not necessarily with those committees alone, would be carried out.  Senator Wheeldon  has had consultations. He found in a number of cases, however, that it was not the intention of the industry representatives with whom he consulted to make any constructive proposals about an Australian Government insurance office but to state their forthright opposition to it. It seemed quite unproductive to expect that any constructive exchanges could take place and that there could be any real consultations with persons who took that attitude. I think, partly as a result of that, that  Senator Wheeldon  decided that the broad lines of the legislation should now be worked on. The Bill is not completed. There will be still some time before it is ready for presentation and the views of all those who are prepared to make constructive proposals in relation to the matter, rather than announce their national campaign to resist it, will be given full weight. 
We might do precisely that. There are still about 250 000 persons unemployed in Australia. I assure the honourable member and every other honourable member that if by government expenditure I can ensure that any one of those men is put to work productively I will make sure that he is, and he will not be allowed to remain in unemployment because of a shortage of money. As long as by government expenditure we can employ people productively or assist in their employment in the private sector productively so that they produce as much as the expenditure is worth, there is no contribution to inflation. I will continue to ensure that unemployment does not remain in this country if anything the Government can do can remove it. The people of Australia understand that that is what the Party which I represent in this Parliament- the Government I represent in this Parliament- has stood for for over a quarter of a century. We have not moved one inch from that position nor do we intend to do so. 
-I am aware of the washaway. I understand that it has been repaired. I have been informed that there is some serious delay in the delivery of motor cars. That I have just learned. I will make sure that the matter is investigated and see whether it is possible to do anything about it. 
If we are to understand the economic problems of today we must understand that inflation and unemployment do not always originate from the same causes. Sometimes inflation is mainly the result of excess demand, sometimes mainly the result of excess costs. Inflation in Australia rarely results from purely Australian conditions. It almost always originates from external conditions. The present inflation is no exception. It originated from external conditions. These conditions were the large increase in money demand for exports in 1972-73- an increase of over $2,000m- and the large increase in capital inflow in the mineral and land boom- an increase of about $3,000m. On this basis- an inflow of money demand from overseasthe banks were allowed to increase lending at rates never before equalled in Australia. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the shadow Treasurer, has been talking about using the printing presses today. Reserve Bank figures show that in 1972 the money supply increased at annual rates of 22 per cent in the September quarter and 26 per cent in the December quarter- the highest rates ever. The increased expenditure in Australia in 1972 was probably 20 per cent of existing expenditure. An increase like this is far beyond the capacity of the economy to increase production in Australia and far beyond its capacity to import goods. Indeed, imports did not rise much in 1972 or 1973. 
So inflation originated in 1972, and it originated with the vast increase in money spent on exports, in the capital inflow and in the money supplied by the banks. While it is obvious that action should have been taken by the McMahon Government in 1972 to appreciate the dollar, to regulate capital inflow and to modify the money supply, in fact no action was taken. This necessary action was not taken until the Labor Government was elected. The dollar was then appreciated, tariffs were reduced to encourage imports of goods so more would be available to meet the inflated demand, capital inflow was regulated by the variable deposit requirement and the money supply was moderated. 
The June quarter of 1973, however, showed an increase of 27 per cent as the trading banks went on feeding the boom, the September quarter 23 per cent, December 12 per cent. The figure for the March 1974 quarter was 12 per cent, for the June quarter 9 per cent, and for the September quarter minus 7 per cent. Because of the increase in the cost of living in 1 973, about 10 per cent, much of which was caused by an increase in goods subject to export- mainly meat and other foods- wage and salary demands began to become much larger. It could not be expected that wage and salary earners would meekly accept a cost of living increase less than this, and so they demanded and won substantial wage increases. Average minimum weekly wage rates increased by 15.3 per cent by the end of 1973, in 1974 the increase was over 20 per cent, and by the end of the year 1974 it was 33 per cent. Other wage rates, especially female wage rates, showed a greater increase. 
Two things must be said about these wage rates. First, they were throughout 1973 and 1974 increasing at a much faster rate than the cost of living. Wage and salary earners do not need wage increases in 1975 to catch up with the increases in the cost of living that occurred in 1973 and 1974. They have been well ahead of it in 1973 and throughout 1974. 
The second thing that has to be said about wage rates is that it is obvious that wage increases of 20 per cent or 30 per cent must be well ahead of productivity, production and available supplies of goods. The supply of goods, including vastly increased imports which in fact did take place, cannot increase at anything like 20 per cent or 30 per cent a year. Therefore general wage increases of 20 per cent or 30 per cent must contribute substantially to inflation. Hence wage increases in 1974 became a substantial but secondary cause of inflation in 1974 and 1975. 
It is also true that Government expenditure increased in 1973 and 1974. But much of this increase, like that on pensions and social welfare and education- much more than half of the total- was essential if the poorer members of the community were to be kept up with inflationinflation, I remind honourable members, with which the present Government had nothing to do- and if real standards in education were to be maintained, let alone advanced. Much of that expenditure was for re-employment, much of it to cause industrial recovery, much of it to assist primary producers like the $350m that has been provided for the purchase of wool by the Wool Corporation. More than two-thirds of the increased expenditure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is complaining about was for the purpose of providing re-employment, assistanceto secondary industry and assistance to primary industry. Would the honourable gentleman have refused to accede to those requirements? It is all very well to talk about cutting Government expenditure but nowhere have we had any suggestions from honourable members on the other side of the House that have lasted beyond one or two speeches about where they would cut Government expenditure. Would they do it in any of the items I have just mentioned? Would they not provide assistance to the beef industry? Would they not provide assistance to the wool industry to the extent of $3 50m? Would they not provide re-employment through the States- $240m was provided to the State Premiers only a few weeks ago? Would they not have done that? Where would they cut Government expenditure? It is all very well to make the kind of speeches we have just heard with not one fact as to what course would be taken. 
I point out that no Labor government at any rate would be worth support if in times of inflation it allowed the real standards of pensioners, of public and basic health and of education to fall. We will not allow those things to fall. This would not have been the result under a LiberalCountry Party government. If they were to cut expenditure I can guess where it would be. The reasons why that guess would be accurate are precisely the reasons why speakers on the other side of the House will not give any real indication. But at any rate Government expenditure, like wage and salary increases, did become one of the secondary contributors to inflation in 1975. But inflation, whatever its cause, began to have an effect in causing unemployment. 
Most of our employment is in the private sector where it depends on profits. Mainly because of increased costs, caused largely by increased wages, and in some cases poor management, profits began to fall absolutely as a share of income. As profits fell and as employers faced big wage increases, they could cut costs only by retrenchments, and so unemployment began to rise significantly. In July 1 974 the decision had to be made: Would we cut the money supply further? Its growth had already been cut too much to a minus 7 per cent in the September quarter of 1974. Would we adopt a Draconian budget for 1974? These were the questions and I am glad to say that we did not impose a continued tight money policy and a Draconian budget. If we had done so there would have been thousands of bankruptcies. There would have been lower output everywhere and unemployment would have been much higher, perhaps well over 500 000. That was a choice this Government would not make. The Opposition has never faced whether it would have made that choice that way or in any other way. 
The Australian community must tell us what it thinks. Did it support us in our efforts to achieve recovery in growth or did it want us to squeeze the economy still further? I am satisfied that the commonsense of the citizen, whether he be worker or industrial manager, wanted recovery and growth, not restriction and recession. But the question now is: Do we keep the recovery that has been moving ahead or do we impose a check upon it? This is the question. The Opposition has tried to make out that there is disagreement between the Government and the Reserve Bank of Australia on this vital point. It may be good policy for the Opposition to assert, and for some newspapers to help it to assert, that there is disagreement between the Government and the Reserve Bank. But it is not good for the economy or for the nation to assert this false claim. There is no disagreement between the Government and the Reserve Bank about monetary policy or about any other matter of policy. 
The Reserve Bank has told the trading banks that lending policy should not envisage further expansion in aggregate provision of new finance by trading banks beyond levels recently recorded. The Government agrees with this. But the Governor of the Reserve Bank specifically informed the Government's Economic Council yesterday that he does not want any supplementary restraint on the banking system by raising the statutory reserve deposit ratio or in any other way. The Government agrees with this. But the Government says to the trading banks in addition: We want you to have regard as best you can, when you lend money, to being satisfied that resources- men, machines and land- are available or not available. We want you to decide whether your loans will result in increased production or not. We want you to lend money when you are satisfied that men, machines and land are available to increase production, but not to lend money when they are not. We want you to take part in the fight against inflation by providing the money to increase production, but we do not want you to provide money to bid up the prices of land, buildings and other things, which contribute little or nothing to production. 
Recently a famed American economist, Milton Friedman, mentioned by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, has been used in Australia to damage the policy of the Australian Government by advocating cuts in Government expenditure and in the money supply. I want to quote another famed American economist- Paul A. Samuelson, a Nobel Prize winner and perhaps more famed than Friedman- to show that there is another economic opinion as there is in this country and in every other. Samuelson does not assert that government expenditures should be cut or money supply should be restricted. As early as September 1974 Samuelson was against the restrictionist policy Friedman and others had helped to impose first upon Nixon and then upon Ford and which has now given the United States 8.7 per cent of unemployment and rising. 
Samuelson said his advice to President Ford stresses 3 important points. Firstly, do not encourage the overly tight policies of the Federal Reserve Bank which have been killing the housing market and gradually increasing the gravity of the stagnation. Secondly, do not think that some puritanical budget cutting will suffice to stop inflation. Thirdly, do not listen to your advisers who claim that bringing unemployment up to 6 per cent- and, as I said, it is now over 8 per cent in the United States- and holding it there for a couple of years will restore the economy for the rest of the 1 970s to a reasonable rate of inflation. 
Samuelson turned from these 'don'ts' to recommend some positive action which assumed that growth would be sluggish and unemployment would rise without the government doing anything to cause those results, or to contribute to them or to aggravate them, and advised that the best the  President  could ever hope for was to see inflation cut by no more than 2 per cent a year until it reached, he said 'with luck', 4 per cent a year. American conditions are not identical with those of Australia, but Samuelson 's advice is the opposite to that of Friedman- it was in the United States and it is here in Australiaand it means that growth should not be cut to deal with inflation. I have no intention, while I am Treasurer of this country, to agree to cut growth to deal with inflation. I would say that nine out of ten Australian citizens, if they faced that question, would not agree to cut growth by restricting the money supply or by any other course of action in order to deal with inflation. I am quite sure that every member of the Country Party who sees the situation in the country today and who is constantly clamouring for assistance for various sections of primary industry will not advocate any cut in the money supply. 
I would challenge the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who is to follow me in this debate, to say whether or not he will support a cut in the money supply if that is the cost, and if that is not to be the cost, how will he accommodate it? Inflation is now built into the economic system because of the monopolistic nature of the private sector and because of the strength and militancy of organised workers. This has brought about a new phase in the economic history of the countries of which we are a part. These factors have changed some of the basic conditions of the system. We must learn fast enough to adjust to them and to acquire the means necessary to ensure economic growth despite inflation. 
The Government will continue to see the economy is adequately supplied with the amount of money it needs to function properly. As we approach the Budget in 1975 we will see that not one cent is spent that it is not essential to spend, that is not essential for the needs of the people in the situation in which they find themselves and which is not essential for the purpose of providing employment where the resources are available for that purpose. A proper balance will be maintained. We will not endeavour unduly to restrict the economy in some forlorn hope that we can suddenly stop inflation. The economy can become restricted even from some of the most minor adjustments unless great care is used in them. No risk will be taken. 
-I expect next week to be able to make a statement to the House about the visit made by myself and the Minister for Agriculture to the Middle East. That will depend on time and circumstances, but I hope to be able to make that statement. First, it is true that, in the absence of that statement, if one has to rely on the media what could be called only sketchy reports have been made. I issued lengthy Press releases which are available for the Press and for members if they should want to see a more adequate statement. Secondly, it is not the business of a Minister in this Parliament to undertake firm orders for beef or anything else. That is a matter for the Australian Meat Board and for private companies. Similarly, it is not my business to obtain petro dollars. The job of a Minister in this respect is to create the overall conditions that are necessary for those who are responsible for those matters to have the greatest possible success. 
What I was able to discover was that in this part of the world Australia is held in very high esteem, for both our foreign affairs policies and our economic policies. I was able to discover that there are very extensive opportunities for increased exports from Australia to all the countries in the Persian or Arabian Gulf area. This is especially so with respect to meat. But, unfortunately, the Australian meat trade has not responded with the kind of meat that is most popular in those areas. The meat that we export is too old and too fat. Unless we can have enough initiative and enterprise to produce the right kind of meat, we will not be able to take the very rapidly expanding opportunities for trade in that part of the world which are available. What I have said applies also to all the other proteins. It applies to proteins from grain. It applies to the milk products. There are very extensive markets available there. 
Similarly, great interest exists in each of the countries that I visited in investing what the honourable member chooses to describe as petro dollars. The attitudes of the countries differ. In Kuwait, this is essentially a commercial enterprise in which that country is seeking out the best possible returns on a long term basis. Some other countries are interested in what they regard as joint projects. They know that in Australia we are concerned to retain control by Australians, private and public, of our resources. This is a policy that they thoroughly understand. It is one that they apply in their countries and it is one with which they are prepared to co-operate. There are great opportunities for constructive cooperation between the countries in that part of the world and Australia for the mutual benefit of both. I think that the visit that we were able to make has contributed something to improving that situation. 
(10.50)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by Australia not exceeding the equivalent of US$68m or $A50m to assist the Australian Shipping Commission- the Australian National Line- in financing the purchase of 2 bulk ore carriers from the Gotaverken Shipyards in Sweden at an estimated cost of approximately 286 million Swedish kroners or $A54m. The vessels are due for delivery in July 1 976 and May 1977. 
This is the first occasion on which Parliament has been asked to approve borrowings on behalf of the ANL. However, Parliament has on a number of previous occasions approved borrowings for the other Government owned transport authorities, Qantas Airways Ltd and TransAustralia Airlines. Legislation for the last series of such borrowings was passed by Parliament in the Budget sittings of last year. The borrowing arrangements for the purchase of these ships have not been finalised at this stage and the Government will proceed only if funds are available on reasonable terms and conditions. It is expected that the loans will have a maturity of between 7 and 10 years. Offers will be sought for these funds from overseas sources with established connections with the Australian Government. 
Other arrangements for the loans will be similar to those approved by Parliament for previous loans for Qantas and TAA in recent years. In particular, the Australian Government will be the borrower in the first place, and the proceeds will be made available to the ANL on terms and conditions to be determined pursuant to clause 7 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which Australia itself borrows the money. The ANL will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements. Consequently, the Australian Government will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. 
The detailed terms and conditions of each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Australian Loan Council. The amount to be borrowed is included in the Australian Government's loan program for 1974-75 approved by the Loan Council. Should any borrowings under this legislation not be finalised until 1975-76, the amount of these borrowings will be included in the Government's loan program for that year. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The honourable member has had considerable difficulty in asking his question. I will see if I can answer it with less difficulty. The figures he has selected from the large number  that are available indicate that there is a low rate of growth. It will be recalled that the other day I pointed out that there was a low rate of growth. One of the purposes of the Government in these circumstances should be to avoid policies that further restrict growth and in fact do what -is possible to encourage growth. I pointed that out the other day and explained how we would do it. It is true that the general level of demand is starting to rise, and I think it will continue to rise. This will encourage investment decisions and growth. 
As I pointed out the other day, however, one of the main reasons for difficulty in investment decisions is the high level of costs that has been experienced in Australia. It is clear that a considerable proportion of that high cost is due to the high rate of increases in wages and salaries that have occurred in the last 12 months. I think this has to be understood in the community- by workers and the leaders of unions. If we are to deal effectively with inflation in Australia with the increase in the cost of living, I think we have to realise that it is the wage situation that represents the most significant element in it. The community and the Government between them must be able to retain reasonable rates of wage increase. By that I mean a wage rate increase which will ensure that the living standards of the workers who receive those wages do not fall. By reasonable rates of wage increase I mean that relativities that are out of line have to be put into proper proportion. This is all within the limit of what I call a reasonable wage increase. 
I think everybody must realise that the most significant element in a policy to control inflation is the establishment of a reasonable wage policy. In the absence of that, any attempt to restrict the economy by restricting money supply or by unduly restricting the Government deficit can only be counter-productive. I pointed out the other day that it will be the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the deficit and government finance are properly used to encourage investment and production in all areas where there are resources available for production, where as a result of Government action those resources can be productively used. I said that in the coming Budget not one cent will be included that is not fully justified. It will be the intention of the Government throughout the work leading up to the preparation of the Budget to ensure that the deficit is kept at the lowest possible level for the health of the economy. 
Today I issued a statement on the March consumer price index figures as follows: 
The Consumer Price Index for the March quarter, released today, shows that inflation is stabilising. However, the March quarter  is  generally low and there is no indication in this quarter's figures that inflation does not still remain the most significant economic problem for the nation. There is no sign yet that the nation and the community can diminish any efforts that can be made to reduce inflation. The figure for the March quarter is much influenced by the continuing moderation in increases in price of food, clothing and even housing. However, there is still an uncomfortably large increase in the price of most manufactured goods and in other goods with a high labour content. In the miscellaneous group the highest prices were among motoring services, cigarettes and tobacco and medical and hospital charges. It appears from this that State indirect taxes and increases in contribution rates to insurance funds have played a part. 
I might say specifically in answer to the honourable gentleman's question that the composition of the retail price index number analysed as I have done just now indicates that the content of inflation is not just a simple thing. It is quite complex and needs many lines and directions of policy in order to achieve results. I have pointed out that the role of the Government is directly concerned with the relationship between the amount of money it spends in the economy and the amount of money it collects- in other words, the deficit. It has been the purpose of the Government when stimulus was needed to the economy to adjust the deficit accordingly. I would say now that if the policy followed by the Government in the last 12 months to stimulate the economy and to reactivate the direction of movement of the economy had not been followed unemployment today would be well over 500 000. I challenge anyone here to say that he would not have followed a policy similar to that followed by the Government in the last 12 months. 
The question is not what has happened in the past but what should happen in the future. I made it clear the other day that not one cent that was not fully justified would go into the Budget. The deficit in the coming Budget will be kept to the lowest possible figure. I have also mentioned that the rate of increase in wages and salaries is a most significant contributor to inflation when it  exceeds 20 per cent a year. I have said that it will be the purpose of the Government to ensure that a fair deal is achieved for every wage and salary earner. We would not expect wage and salary earners to see their real standards diminish. We would not expect wage and salary earners whose salaries have not been increased, like some of those of the lower income levels, to have their salaries increased by even more than the cost of living, but unless we have and can make effective a reasonable wage policy we cannot deal with inflation. 
Lastly, I refer to the increase in the money supply. During the course of the last couple of years we have seen some very violent fluctuations in the rate of increase of the money supply. We saw during 1972 a very rapid increase, rising to 26 per cent by the end of the year. That was unsound and contributed significantly to the inflation that came afterwards. It was done under the supervision of honourable members opposite. After that had occurred and after the economy found itself with a high level of inflation during 1973, a policy was followed under our Government which resulted in a very significant decline in the rate of increase in the money supply from about 26 per cent to about 0.7 per cent. I am prepared to look back over the events and say that that made a significant contribution to the shortage of working capital which has inhibited development in the economy since. We are now in a position where we have brought the money supply back to a level which was necessary to supply the economy with the funds that it needed. I wonder whether honourable members opposite will say that we should not have done that? Those who are in touch with industry all over the country will be told that for over 6 months industry has been short of working capital. That has had a significant influence on the rate of investment and the rate of employment. Are honourable members opposite going to say that we should have kept it like that or made it worse? Are they going to say that the money supply should not have been brought up to over 20 per cent? Are they going to say that the economy should not have had a money supply adequate for its needs? I do not think so. 
-If the right honourable member wants to ask a question he should listen to the answer. 
-I am aware of the statement made by Professor Arndt. It is anyone's guess- and it is not much more than a guesswhat the rate of inflation might happen to be in 12 months. It is not at all useful for anyone to talk about 30 per cent rates. The Government is well aware, as would be the Leader of the Opposition, of the factors that determine the rate of inflation. I have already said that everything that the Government can do to reduce inflation will be done but, in order to achieve that, I do not intend to follow any policy that would have a very serious impact upon the economy- shortening it of working capital, increasing unemployment, making business less profitable, denying sections of the economy the kind of assistance that they can reasonably be given. I do not think that Professor Arndt is in a position of responsibility to know the needs of the economy or to be responsible for those needs. It is quite easy for a professor of economics to make pronouncements, but he does not happen to share with the Government the responsibility that it has for people. The Government will undertake to safeguard the interests of those people in the maximum possible way and at the same time to deal with inflation just as quickly as it can. 
From time to time I have received a number of representations and reports about the situation of the clothing industry in Western Australia. These have been examined by the Department of Manufacturing Industry for which my colleague in another place,  Senator James  McClelland, is responsible. I think that the position of the industry in Western Australia is a little more difficult than that of the industry in general. It suffers partly from the overall shortage of working capital, which as I said in answer to a question a few minutes ago was partly a result of the reduction in the money supply last year and at the end of 1973 and which was picked up again by the change in policy and improvement in the money supply that took place after the third quarter of last year. Therefore, a good deal has been done directly to improve the money supply and the supply of working capital. The banks are now lending at rates which are a record compared with the rates which have been applying for quite some time. Most industries that are viable are receiving the capital they need. 
In respect of the clothing industry in particular, for some time it has been believed and asserted that one of its main difficulties is imports. Imports have been quite severely controlled. Quantities have been applied in practically every area as a result of the Government's recognition of the fact that imports were oversupplied. A great deal has been done to assist the industry directly. I think it is a very arguable question whether more should be done. The question of whether further assistance to the industry in Western Australia or to any other part of the industry could be justified would have to be preceded by an adequate inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority. Should this be the case, I assure the honourable member that the matter will be referred to the Department of Manufacturing Industry with a view to deciding whether reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority should be made. 
-I have answered the latter part of the right honourable gentleman's question three or four times in the last week. There is no disagreement at all between the Reserve Bank and the Government. Most of the right honourable gentleman's questions are based on newspaper reports written by journalists who are trying to interpret my views and state what is happening but who have never made any reference to me.  Mr Anderson  of the 'Sun Herald' and  Mr Haupt  of the 'Australian Financial Review' have written page after page interpreting my views and saying what is happening in my vicinity but neither of those gentlemen has ever come to ask me one word about my policy, what is my interpretation of economics or what is happening in or around my office. None of them has ever asked me if there is any disagreement between me and the Minister for Social Security, but this has been given publicity. Consequently the right honourable gentleman asks a question based on that publicity. 
I say that there is no difference of view between me and the Minister for Social Security. I am as conscious of the need to maintain the most rigorous control of Government spending as is the Minister or anyone else in the Cabinet, and I have been so continuously. I point out that what one should do is determined by the state of the economy. What the Government decided to do last year was valid. It has been followed, or was adopted at the- same time, by different countries around the world one after the other. The policy that the Government followed has diminished the significance of the impact of the world downturn on the Australian economy and has diminished the operation of the internal economic factors that were controlling it. When dealing with this Budget we shall deal with it according to the circumstances that prevail in the economy. There will be- as I hope there will be among Opposition parties- a realistic debate about what should be done, because what should be done is not just a simple matter that can be designed or derived from abstract macroeconomic theory. It requires a thorough examination of the structure of the economy and an appropriate policy arrived at must be a policy derived from structural factors. 
-It is true that before the recent meeting of Premiers I did go to Queensland and I had a lengthy conference with  Sir Gordon  Chalk and his officers in Brisbane. He, together with his officers, put forward a submission detailing the requirements of the Government of Queensland to maintain employment in State services and with local authorities. I assured the Queensland Treasurer that it was the intention of the Australian Government to provide adequate finance to ensure that employment levels of State governments and local authorities would be maintained. The details given by  Sir Gordon  Chalk at the time indicated that he was submitting to me a full statement- a full requirement- to achieve those purposes. 
At the Premiers' Conference in Canberra on 14 February Queensland was granted $47.5m for the specific purpose of maintaining levels of employment as I have just mentioned. This was everything Queensland had asked for; in fact, it was more than Queensland had asked for. In proportion to population it was the most provided by the Australian Government to any State. Since then Queensland has received more than $20m in other specific employment-creating grants. I am aware of the statements made recently by Queensland Ministers, including  Mr Lee  and  Mr Hinze.  These statements indicate that the submissions made to me by  Sir Gordon  Chalk were not adequate, were inaccurate or were insufficient. I cannot believe that that is the case because the Queensland Treasurer was notified a fortnight before what we wanted from him and he had adequate time to provide it. He expressed his own complete satisfaction at the response of the Australian Government to what he had submitted. 
I think that if there are now any jobs in jeopardy it should be the responsibility of  Mr Lee, Mr Hinze  and other Ministers to explain it to us directly and not to conduct a newspaper campaign which is, I think, their main purpose. If there are any deficiencies in Queensland or in any other State I would expect, as the Treasurer of this country, to receive notification of them first, not through a newspaper headline. It seems to me that the Queensland Ministers are mainly concerned with playing politics. I think there are some Ministers in the Queensland Government who do nothing else but play politics. They do not care what happens to the people involved as long as they get political advantage out of it. I think that the present outburst by these Queensland Ministers is an example of that. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a ministerial statement on the Australian ministerial mission to Iran, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The originator of the BIMARK proposal originally approached the Treasury Department in September 1972; submissions were subsequently made to the Treasurer in January 1973, May 1973 and June 1974; submissions were also put to me, as Deputy Prime Minister, in June and July 1974. 
and (3) See answer given by the Minister for Housing and Construction in answer to Question No. 1503 on S December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  President  of the Superannuation Board has provided the following information: 
From statistical and valuation material available to the Australian Government Actuary at 30 June 1972, it is estimated that some $65. 5m, or 1 per cent of the total capital value of future pension benefits in respect of contributors at that date that would be financed by the Government, relates to non-contributory units. 
A further comparatively small cost would also apply to non-contributory units included in pension entitlements which fell due on or after 4 June 1969. However, quite extensive research, computer work and further actuarial calculations would be necessary to isolate these details, which are not specifically required during the normal management of the scheme. 
and (c) Estimates cannot be made separately for the cost of conversion from age 65 retirement to age 60 retirement for contributors whose- 
non-contributory units, and 
contributory units would not become available until age 65. 
In the aggregate, as at 30 June 1972 the additional capital value of the benefits to be financed by the Government following such a change, including updating on the basis presently used, has been estimated as $784m if all contributors were to retire on attaining age 60. 
No estimate can be made of the cost to contributors for converting the employee proportion of age 65 units to age 60 units. Any such change would be reflected in additional contributions or in a reduction in the employee-financed proportion of pension benefits. 
(a) (b) (d) The estimates of cost of the proposed new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees that follow are the estimated capital values as at 30 June 1972 of the future cost to the Government in respect of pensioners and contributors in the present scheme at that date. June 1972 was the occasion of the last valuation of the present Superannuation Fund and detailed statistical information was compiled for that purpose. The estimated capital values show the present value of the liabilities to be met by the Government under the present scheme with adjustments for changes to be incorporated in the new scheme. The liabilities relate to the period covered by the lifetime of contributors and pensioners as at 30 June 1972 and their dependants, a period that could extend for perhaps 80 years or more. 
The main assumptions on which the estimates have been based are those that were adopted in the Report by the actuaries  Mr G.  L. Melville and Professor A. H. Pollard on the Treasurer's Proposals for a New Superannuation Scheme for Australian Government Employees, which was tabled in the 
House of Representatives on 10 July 1974. The main assumptions are: 
The interest discount factor over the period during which the cost would arise would be 516 per cent per annum. 
The increase in the Consumer Price Index over the period during which the costs would arise would be 3.9 per cent per annum. (Hi) In addition to a promotional salary scale based on average Australian Government service experience, annual increases in general salary levels of 5'/i per cent per annum over the remaining working lives of contributors at 30 June 1972 have been assumed. 
The rates of mortality, invalidity, withdrawal, etc., are based on the experience of contributors to and pensioners of the present scheme. 
Although based on data as at 30 June 1972, the estimates serve to indicate the relative magnitude of the various changes listed. 
<para pgwide="yes">NOTE: The additional capital values shows as items (a) to (i) above apply only if they are introduced in the order shown. If a different order is used, the compounding effect of the introduction of new benefits would cause variations in the individual amounts of additional capital value, although the total would remain unchanged. 
<para pgwide="yes">* These capital values include $3,235m for updating of benefits which is made up as follows:- - $392 in respect of pensioners as at 30 June 1972 on the basis of the Government share of pensions being adjusted annually by a percentage equal to 1.4 times the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index. - $2,5 14m in respect of Pension Scheme contributors as at 30 June 1972 on the basis of the Government-financed element of age pensions and the whole of other pensions being adjusted annually by the formula one times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index and the contributor-financed element of age pensions being adjusted on the same basis, provided basic contributions are used to the fullest extent possible to finance the pension; and - $329m in respect of existing Provident Account contributors as at 30 June 1 972 on the same basis of updating as for existing Pension Scheme contributors. 
ns- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Corporation's Fourth Annual Report shows that at last balance date 30 June 1974 AIDC had undertaken cumulative commitments to 88 projects for a total amount of $ 1 5 7m since AIDC operations began in April 1 97 1 . 
In the year 1973-74 AIDC wrote off $lm of loss on project financings. As a development banking institution 
AIDC quite properly does not publish details of individual customers ' accounts. 
and (4) While, as indicated in the answer to question 2, AIDC does not publish details of individual customers' accounts, it is incorrect to suggest that AIDC has operated behind a cloak of security. In its annual reports the AIDC publishes substantial details regarding its operations. 
and (6) In common with other statutory authorities, the AIDC is not subject to the various State Companies Acts or Ordinances. However, under its governing legislation the AIDC is not only required to produce financial statements in a form approved by the Treasurer, but also to maintain its accounts in accordance with the accounting principles generally applied in commercial practice. I should point out that AIDC's accounts comply with the standards set by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia for accounting by public companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The Government is aware of the provisions of The Insurance Companies' Act 1974 of the United Kingdom. It is also concerned to ensure that Australia has an effective system of supervision of insurance companies and that the community's interest in insurance is protected. In this context consideration is given to the relevance of new insurance legislation in appropriate overseas countries, including the United Kingdom. 
The investment policies of insurance companies are influenced indirectly by the various provisions in Australian Government legislation supervising general and life insurance companies. These include the eligible assets in calculating the solvency margins under the Insurance Acts 1 973 and the supervision which the Insurance Commissioners exercise in ensuring that insurance companies are likely to continue to be able to meet their liabilities and obligations. 
The general insurance legislation also contains specific provisions relating to the direct control in certain circumstances of asset holdings of general insurance companies. I refer particularly to sections 51 and 62 of the Insurance Act 1973. Section 62 broadly provides that where an investigation is being made into the affairs of an insurance company and it appears to the Treasurer that the company is, or is about to become, unable to meet its liabilities he may direct the company to dispose of or not to dispose of an asset of the company. These provisions have similarities to the provisions contained in The Insurance Companies' Act 1974 of the United Kingdom. In regard to this United Kingdom Act it is important to read the provisions referred to in the honourable member's question and relating to the control of investments in the context of sections 28 and 38 of that Act. These provisions set out the grounds on which these investment control powers can be exercised and steps that are required before action is taken. The grounds on which the powers are exercisable relate principally to the protection of policy holders of a company. 
Notwithstanding the above I envisage that one of the future matters which the recently established Insurance Consultative Committees might consider is the question of whether additional controls over the investment policies of insurance companies are desirable in the community interest. 
With regard to the inclusion of provisions in Australian insurance legislation for the oversight of the suitability of directors and other executive officers of insurance companies, my predecessor indicated in a speech he made on 6 February 1 974 that the Government has decided to legislate to prevent new insurance companies being established merely because they met certain minimum financial requirements. He indicated that such legislation will allow proposals to be considered in the broader context of the public interest, with particular reference to the qualifications of directors. I hope that the Government will consider shortly the particular provisions to give effect to this policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)&amp;(2) Chapter V of the 1974-75 Budget Paper No. 7, entitled "Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1974-75", outlines the programs under which funds are made available to local government by the Australian Government and provides estimates wherever possible of expenditure in 1974-75. Questions regarding expenditure approved to date in relation to any particular programs should be directed to the responsible Minister in each case. 
The reason why the campaign by the insurance companies is misleading and why it is necessary for policy holders all over Australia to take this into account is that competition is necessary in the insurance industry in the interests of the Australian people and in the interests of those people who work for the insurance companies. The Australian Insurance Corporation will increase the opportunities for jobs and the chances for promotion of people in the insurance industry, not reduce them as the insurance companies are now telling their employees when trying to get them out in the streets to demonstrate. The reason why the Australian insurance industry does not give the kind of service to the policy holder that it should is that the industry is not just a service industry providing insurance service to the community; the industry is a great investment operation and its purpose, very largely, is to accumulate funds for investment. Therefore, the charges that are put on the insurance policy holders are far greater than they need be. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask leave to make a personal explanation as I have been quite seriously misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
-I produce also the letter from  Mr Nien  to me, the letter to which the letter I have just incorporated was a reply. The letter, which is dated 10 January 1975, states: 
On 3 February 1975, the Diplomatic Conference on the Development of Humanitarian  Law  will be held in Geneva. The Provisional Revolutionary Government has the right to participate at the Conference but its participation still depends on the support of friendly countries. 
We earnestly request Your Excellency and through you to the Government of Australia to support the reasonable twopoint proposal of the PRG as follows: 
All governments party to the Four 1949 Geneva Conventions are entitled to participate in the Diplomatic Conference on the Development of Humanitarian Law. As a party to the said Conventions, the PRG has a right to participate in the said Conference as the other governments. 
Both administrations in South Vietnam, i.e., the PRG and the Saigon administration are to be treated without any discrimination whatsoever either both will participate in the Conference or neither will. 
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. 
I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in Hansard. 
The 2-point proposal of the PRG as shown in this letter from  Mr Nien  relates not to the withdrawal of the American forces and not to the ending of the Thieu Government but to these 2 proposals about the development of humanitarian law in Geneva. They were the 2 proposals to which I replied to Nien and I wrote to  Senator Willesee  asking him to give a sympathetic eye and ear to this request about attendance at the Humanitarian Law Conference in Geneva. They were the 2 points of the PRG. I would like the Leader of the Opposition to inform the House whether he misled the House knowingly or carelessly. 
The matter before the House at the moment is very important. It concerns one of the most important matters before the nation at the moment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  during the whole of the time he was the Minister for Labour, did his best to preside over the dismantling or the misuse of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He was in a government which presided over the use of the penal powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to imprison trade union leaders and to impose more than half a million dollars worth of fines upon them. The workers of this nation know exactly what kind of responsible wage policy they would get from the Opposition if it were ever the government and they know what kind of responsible wage policy they will get from the former Minister for Labour if he ever became a Minister again. The workers know that they will get a policy which opposes wage increases at all times. The only wage policy the Opposition has is to oppose wage increases. If any honourable member opposite were honest he would say that in public. The record of the Opposition proves that that is the case. 
What is a responsible wage policy? I think the first element of a responsible wage policy is that workers should be compensated for increases in cost of living. Indexation is a major element in this. There can be debate about indexation but the scheme is essential. It is a major element in any responsible wages policy but in the speech just made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition not one word was said about indexation, one way or the other. The major element in wages policy today was not even mentioned by the spokesman for the Opposition in his speech calling for a responsible wage policy. In fact, we know that the Opposition is really against indexation. The shadow Minister for Labor and Immigration has said that on a number of occasions. 
On this matter, as on every other matter, the Opposition is negative and destructive. The words 'sabotage' and 'gutless' are not quite the words that one would expect from the social background of the shadow Minister for Labor and Immigration, but nevertheless they are commonly used in the House today by people of a similar social background. This political rhetoric has no place whatever in an attempt to achieve a responsible wages policy. Productivity and production, in addition to indexation, are also crucial matters. There should be increases for productivity and for production. The rate of increase in productivity is 5 per cent or 10 per cent at best and if wage increases go beyond that then they spill over into inflation and cause increased costs and unemployment. Nothing was said about this by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. No attempt was made by him to explain to workers the connection between wage increases which may go beyond indexation and beyond productivity and their effect on inflation, costs and unemployment, but he cannot get away with that. He cannot do this and still talk about a responsible wage policy. 
It is responsible wage policy to explain the things that I have just mentioned and to prove them. The Government goes beyond this and says that, if wage increases are greater than increases in the cost of living and productivity, then they can contribute to inflation, to costs and to unemployment. It is a responsible policy to say that but not one word of explanation was given by the Opposition spokesman on this matter. Beyond that, the Government favours wage increases. The Government is not against wage increases as the Opposition is. 
It is responsible wage policy to be in favour of wage increases for cost of living, productivity and relativities. The Opposition spokesman did not utter one word on this and did not indicate, on behalf of the Opposition, whether he was for or against it. The Opposition is merely an antiwage Opposition. All workers should and do know this. This is not responsible wage policy. We have had enough of anti-wage attitudes from the Opposition in the past. We know that this attitude is irresponsible and can make no claim whatever to a responsible wage policy. The Government is a wage increase Party. We stand for fair increases and for justifiable increases. Any responsible wage policy must stand for fair increases and for justifiable increases. This is a responsible wage policy. 
In addition to cost of living and indexation, in addition to productivity questions, the next most important question is the national wage case. At no time in the 1 5 minutes for which he spoke did the spokesman for the Opposition, who called for a responsible wage policy, seek to refer specifically to the national wage case. How can any spokesman for any political party which claims a right to govern this country speak for 1 5 minutes about a responsible wage policy without mentioning the recent national wage case judgment? On page 10 of that judgment the Commission mentioned that the question of whether indexation should be introduced was inseparably bound up with several other unresolved areas already discussed. On page 1 1 it states: 
We have been impressed by the suggestions that indexation could have positively beneficial economic, social and industrial implications but, having regard to what we have said, we are not prepared to add indexation to the available methods of wage fixation. 
At no stage did the spokesman for the Opposition go on and consider the relationship between indexation and these other factors in his attempt to get a responsible wage policy. He would not be doing that. He wants to use political rhetoric. He only wants to use words such as 'gutless' and 'sabotage', which ill become a person of his social background and claims to responsibility. A responsible wage policy, of course, has to go beyond indexation. It has to go beyond the increase of the cost of living and productivity. It requires a careful examination and not an outburst of political rhetoric, such as the one we have just witnessed. Changes in relativity between awards and occupations are most important things in a responsible wage policy. It is important for people to have consideration given to changes, to relations between occupations and awards. It is important for people to do this. We cannot get industrial peace or decent conditions of production unless we give proper regard to this. Responsible wage policy means that fair and reasonable and rational relativities must in fact be maintained. But is there any recognition of this from the spokesman for the Opposition? There was not one mention of the subject in the course of 15 minutes asking for a responsible wage policy. What did the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission say about this in the recent national wage case, which was not referred to at all by the spokesman for the Opposition? On page 18 of the judgment the Commission states: 

 Mr McGarvie emphasised that under the Government indexation scheme, a mere change of relativity between or within awards would not warrant a wage adjustment. He also suggested that 'other special circumstances' will apply in ' rare and isolated circumstances '. 
The Commission then states: 
On behalf of the ACTU,  Mr Jolly  said: 
We would add that we consider that wage increases falling under the category of relevant or special considerations are likely to be rare and isolated. The ACTU proposals in this case are in line with the position of the Australian Government. While the ACTU has not attempted to define work value, this is a matter which will be argued before the Commission and ultimately decided by the Commission. 
Near the bottom of page 19 of the judgment the Commission states: 
We believe that the final submissions made by  Mr Jolly  on behalf of the ACTU at the last day of the hearing mark a new and positive approach to the issues of wage fixation methods and wage indexation and deserve to be tested in good faith by experience. 
That is what we need for a responsible wage policy at this time. We need to be prepared in good faith to test these things by experience, not coming here with an outburst of political rhetoric as though the world were coming to an end. This is responsible wage policy. It has ACTU approval. It has the approval of the Arbitration Commission. Once indexation and productivity are settled the other matters can be settled too. I refer again to the judgment. On page 23 the Commission states: 
The Australian Government has not only made a major contribution to the debate on indexation, it has also made a number of positive suggestions as to how it would act to ensure viability of indexation. 
The distinguished judges of the Australian Arbitration Commission said that on page 23 of the judgment. But nowhere has the Opposition made positive suggestions. On page 23 of its judgment the Arbitration Commission says that the Government has made a substantial contribution to a responsible wage policy. But nothing has come from the Opposition that one could call anything of that kind. 
Another important contribution that the Government has made to a responsible wage policy in Australia is that indexation, very largely as a result of the Government's submission, has been gained. It has been won. The Commission has granted indexation in principle. Many people throughout this nation have fought for indexation since 1953. It has been gained. Is that a failure to understand a responsible wage policy? Is that a failure to achieve a responsible wage policy? Of course it is not. It is the most important contribution to a responsible wage policy that has been made in Australia for a long time. It was obtained as a result of the action by the Government and it has the approval not only of the Commission but also of the ACTU. Here is where the other factors become important. They cannot be ignored. They were ignored by the Opposition. They cannot be dismissed or destroyed by political rhetoric. Changes in work values are important to people. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition found no opportunity to refer to these matters. On pages 33 and 34 of its judgment the Commission states principle No. 7 which raises these questions and explains them in detail. I shall not have time to go through the full content of principle 7. But on page 34 of the judgment the Commission states: 
It will be clear that this catch-up problem is a passing one and should not occur under the orderly system of wage fixation we propose as the basis of indexation. 
In the important metal trades case at the moment the important issue is what has been called catching up. Certain metal tradesmen claim that they have fallen behind comparable people in industry. That is an important and vital matter. The relativities and work values are important. They must be looked at. One cannot dismiss them as the Opposition chooses to dismiss them in its continuous policy of opposition to wage increases. They have to be taken into account and they will be taken into account. What did the Opposition say about these things? Nothing at all. But I point out that the Arbitration Commission has made it clear that in its view the catching up problem is a passing problem. The solution of it will not destroy industry, as the Opposition has been saying. The solution of it will not produce an uncontrollable flow-on as the Opposition has been saying in its so-called responsible wage policy. 
The only thing the Opposition ever says about wages is that it is against increases, and we know that to be so. The solution will not be found by political rhetoric. The solution requires a responsible wage policy. It will not be found by language destructive of good industrial relations, destructive of good production and productivity conditions. It is good politics for the Opposition to talk this way but it is bad for industry to talk this way. As I understand it, catching up does not apply to the metal trades; it is a concept that comes from the need for other trades to catch up with the metal trades. But if the metal trades have fallen behind they should catch up. Justice and efficient production demand that kind of fair dealing. But it is a matter for the Commission to decide what the position in this case will be. It is a matter for the Commission, guided by whatever information can be put forward to it, by the Government and by the other parties. 
But of course the Opposition has nothing to say. Its position is enshrined in the principle of destructive criticism. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has even said: 'It is not my job to make any suggestions; it is only my job to attack, attack, attack, criticise and destroy'. Is that good for confidence? What good is that doing for industry these days? Is saying nothing positive a contribution to a responsible wage policy? I leave it for the House and the people to decide. What son of contribution does this continuous destructive criticism, these words that ill become the social background of an exMinister 'gutless', 'sabotage'- make to good industrial relations, to the productive conditions, to the confidence in industry that a responsible wage policy can in fact achieve? The Government has a responsible wage policy. The Arbitration Commission, as I quoted from page 33 of its judgment, approves of that and the ACTU approves of that. Give any worker in Australia an opportunity to decide whether he wants the wage policy of the Government or that of the Opposition and I am quite sure what his decision will be. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill and the accompanying Superannuation Act Amendment Bill 1975 and Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Bill 1975, which I will introduce shortly, is to give effect to the Government's decision, announced on 4 December last year, to provide a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. The new scheme will replace the pension scheme and the lump sum provident account under the Superannuation Act 1922-1974 and is to come into operation on 1 July 1975. 
The Present Scheme 
Superannuation has always been an important condition of service for Australian Government employees. When the present scheme was introduced in 1922 it was seen as a major advance in the superannuation field and the scheme has generally led developments ever since. There is no reason why it should not; indeed the national Government should lead. From the outset the scheme provided such benefits as full pension on invalidity retirement during service, pensions for widows and children on the death of the member and the opportunity to purchase full pension on normal retirement after reaching age 60. 
The scheme has undergone many changes since then. The provident account was introduced in 1937 and membership has been progressively widened to enable statutory officials, employees of Australian Government statutory authorities and longer serving temporary employees to contribute under the Act. Benefits have been gradually improved and in recent years provision has been made for the preservation of superannuation rights on entry into or exit from the scheme and noncontributory units have been introduced to give some relief to members faced with very nigh contributions in their later years of service. Provision has also been made for the annual updating of pensions. 
The contribution structure of the present units of pension scheme has proved to be its fundamental weakness. Early in a career, contributions may represent only 2 per cent or less of a member's salary but, in later years, contributions may take 25 per cent and even more of salary if the member seeks to maintain his full contributory entitlement. The contributions system is complex; it complicates administration and requires contributors, particularly those over 40, to make frequent and sometimes difficult decisions involving, on their part, judgments on future trends and events. There is a growing contributor population now exceeding 220 000 and there are frequent changes in salaries with consequential adjustments of superannuation contributions. The result of all this is extreme fluctuations in work loads and, under the complicated arrangements that are inherent in the present scheme, these are producing crisis situations in the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office and organisations employing large numbers of staff, such as the Post Office. 
For many years the pension scheme has provided for most members- so long as they are able to meet the necessary contributions- a pension of about 70 per cent of final salary on retirement at age 60 or later after 20 or more years of contributory service. Of this pension, the Government-financed element is around 50 per cent of final salary and the contributor-financed element 20 per cent. Should the member qualify for and avail himself of non-contributory units, providing he makes the necessary lump sum payment at retirement, he is still able to obtain the Government-financed element of pension of 50 per cent of final salary at age 60 but the . contributor-financed element may be reduced to around 10 per cent of final salary if he has utilised non-contributory units to the fullest extent. 
Since July 1973, the Government-financed element of pensions in payment, but not the contributorfinanced element, has been automatically updated annually in accordance with the formula, 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index or, if it is less, the change in average weekly earnings, that was recommended to the Government by the actuary, Professor A. H. Pollard of Macquarie University. This provision replaced the ad hoc arrangements under which fairly regular increases in pension had been granted from 1961 onwards. 
Development of the New Scheme 
On 8 May 1973 my predecessor tabled in the House a report by a departmental committee on the present scheme. The report canvassed in considerable detail the problems being experienced with the scheme and, after examining various possibilities, recommended the introduction of a new scheme. Interested parties were invited to comment. As a result, my predecessor made certain changes to the recommended scheme and, on 12 March 1974, tabled his proposals for a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. The Government appointed  Mr G.  L. Melville, a Sydney actuary, and Professor Pollard to report on these proposals. Their report, tabled on 10 July 1974, resulted in changes that significantly reduced the cost of the scheme finally approved by the Government and announced on 4 December 1974. 
The New Scheme Contributions 
The overall benefit levels of the new scheme do not vary greatly from those already available under the present pension scheme and perhaps the most important change in the new scheme is in the approach to contributions. A member's contributions will no longer be designed to purchase a specific annual amount of pension at retirement or a pension element that is a specific percentage of final salary. A new contributor after commencement of the scheme will be required to make a basic contribution of 5 per cent of salary and will, if he so desires, be able to contribute up to a further 5 per cent in supplementary contributions on a voluntary basis.  His  accumulated contributions, basic and supplementary, will determine the pension, additional to the Government-financed pension, that will be available to him at retirement. 
The change in the contribution basis will mean an immediate increase in the contributions presently being paid by more than half the contributors to the present pension scheme although for younger contributors the move to 5 per cent will be in stages. The change will have considerable advantages for younger contributors in the longer term by avoiding the very high contribution levels at later ages that are characteristic of the present scheme. As well, once the introductory stage of the new scheme has passed, the administrative advantages in departments of the simpler contribution arrangements are expected to be significant. 
Benefits 
The benefit levels have been developed around those of the present scheme but there are significant changes. Whereas a Governmentfinanced element of pension equal to 50 per cent of final salary is, subject to the payment of the necessary contributions, available to most members under the present scheme on retirement atage 60 or later on completion of 20 years contributory service, a new contributor entering the new scheme will need to complete 30 years contributory service for that pension. But the availability of that pension, if a contributor chooses to retire on reaching age 60, will not be conditional upon his paying higher contributions or a lump sum at retirement. As well, should contributory service to age 60 exceed 30 years, the Governmentfinanced pension will be increased to a maximum of 55 per cent of final salary by one half per cent of salary for each year of contributory service in excess of 30. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. (Quorum formed) 
At retirement, the accumulated basic and supplementary contributions of a member will be converted into additional pension not exceeding 20 per cent of salary, any excess contributions being paid in cash, together with a reversionary pension benefit for a spouse. The member will, if he wishes, be able to increase the additional pension by reducing the reversionary pension benefit for his spouse or vice versa. The additional pension and reversionary benefit may also be converted in whole or in part to a lump sum. These flexible arrangements will provide each member at retirement with an opportunity to select benefits that suit his own situation. This is a facility not provided by the present scheme. 
The scheme provides comprehensive cover for the death or invalidity retirement of a contributor before age 60 but, unlike the present scheme, death or invalidity retirement of a contributor after age 60 will attract benefits on an age retirement basis only. Provision is made for a partial invalidity pension to be paid when an invalidity pensioner is re-employed on a lower salary and when a contributor's status and salary is reduced on medical grounds. Spouses' benefits will be available to a wider range of persons including, under certain conditions, de facto spouses and the spouse of a marriage after retirement. The scheme', however, places greater emphasis on dependency than does the present scheme. The standard benefit for a spouse will be 67 per cent of the member's pension compared with the present 62.5 per cent. This improvement will extend to present scheme pensions as will an improvement in children's pensions. 
Persons of lower medical standard on entry who, under the present arrangements, would be required to join the Provident Account, will come under the new scheme as will those members at present contributing to the Provident Account. Benefits from the scheme may be reduced on medical grounds in the event of their death or invalidity retirement before completing 20 years of contributory service. 
Updating of Pensions 
Subject to the improvements in spouses' and children's pensions, pensions already in existence at 30 June 1975 will continue to be paid at the levels provided by the present Act and be updated annually in accordance with the 1.4 times formula I have previously explained. Pensions under the new scheme will be increased annually in accordance with one times the change in the consumer price index but the contributorfinanced element of a pension will not be increased unless the contributor at retirement used his accumulated basic contributions to the fullest extent possible to purchase pension. 
Administration 
Administration of the new scheme, other than investment and management of the Superannuation Fund, will be the responsibility of a Commissioner for Superannuation to be appointed by the Governor-General. Investment and management of the Fund will be the responsibility of an Investment Trust comprised of a full-time chairman and 2 part-time members, all of whom will have appropriate experience in investment or finance. One of the part-time members will be a contributor or pensioner selected after consultation with contributor and pensioner organisations. The investment powers relating to the Fund are being widened to include investments such as shares and real property. Provision is also made for a tribunal to be constituted under regulations to review decisions of the Commissioner. 
National Schemes- Offsetting 
The Bill makes no provision for offsetting benefits that might become available to pensioners in the future from the prospective national superannuation and national compensation schemes. The question of offsetting and the manner in which it might be done in relation to this and the Government's other superannuation schemes is something to be dealt with when the details of one or both of the national schemes are finally settled. 
Introduction of the new Scheme 
Introduction of the new scheme will require a division of the assets of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1975 between pensioners and contributors. The determination of the amount that should be transferred from the Fund to the Government in respect of existing pensionersthe full liability for whose pensions after 1 July will be accepted by the Government- the basic contributions that should be credited to contributors at the commencement of the new scheme and the surplus amounts if any that might be available as supplementary contributions for contributors or for disbursement to pensioners are matters that are covered in general terms only in the Bill and will be dealt with in more detail in regulations. The regulations will also include special provisions in respect of existing contributors. 
I mentioned earlier the administrative problems caused by the complex nature of the present superannuation arrangements. Because of these problems the records of the Superannuation Board are substantially in arrears and it will be a considerable time before the division and allocation of the fund as at 30 June 1975 can be completed. Suitable provision will be made in the regulations for interim arrangements that will apply to persons retiring during the period of transition. 
Costs 
Turning now to costs, on the basis of contributor and pensioner data as at 30 June 1972 and using the assumptions adopted by  Mr Melville  and Professor Pollard in their report to the Government last year, a comparison of capital values of benefits under the present scheme with capital values of benefits under the new scheme shows an overall increase of 13.7 per cent. A significant part of this increase reflects the marked improvement under the new scheme in the position of those existing contributors who, for medical reasons, have been required to be members of the Provident Account. On the other hand, the improvement in benefits overall for existing pension scheme contributors is shown to be 4.8 per cent and for existing pensioners 3.6 per cent. The comparatively small overall increase for existing contributors to the pension scheme illustrates the extent to which improved benefits are offset by the change in the updating formula that will apply to them. Further information is provided in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. 
Notwithstanding the overall increase in benefit levels it is estimated that net expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1975-76 on account of the new scheme will be about $5m less than would be the case if the present scheme were to continue. This reduction reflects the initial impact of the lump sum payments of accumulated contributions into Consolidated Revenue to purchase additional pension. 
Other  Bills 
The Superannuation Act Amendment Bill 1975 amends the Superannuation Act 1922-1974, which will be kept in force in part to provide continuing authority for the payment of existing pensions. It applies to spouses' and children's pensions that are payable or may become payable in the future under that act the levels of benefits provided in the new scheme and applies also the wider eligibility provisions of that scheme. The amendment Bill also provides special superannuation arrangements for persons who have transferred or will transfer before 1 July 1975 from State and private employment as a result of the Australian Government's assuming additional responsibilities. 
The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Bill 1975 makes a number of essential machinery amendments to the principal Act to take account of changes being effected by the Superannuation Bill and to ensure that arrangements already in existence continue in force. They deal with persons whose contributions to the superannuation scheme have been deferred on their becoming eligible members of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits scheme, the preservation of rights provisions as they relate to persons transferring from one scheme to the other and, in accordance with past practice, the ex-officio appointment of the Commissioner for Superannuation, in lieu of the  President  of the Superannuation Board, as 
Chairman of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority and of the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Board. The opportunity has been taken also to include in the Bill some formal and miscellaneous amendments, including those arising from the enactment of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-74. 
Conclusion 
In the last two or three weeks there has been a degree of ill-informed, inaccurate and misleading comment on the new scheme. It need not have been ill-informed; the scheme has been developed under the public gaze and details have been freely available since last December. It is neither possible nor desirable for me to indulge now in detailed rebuttal of some of what has been written. I have already taken action to rebut the worst of it and, for the rest, the facts about the present and new schemes speak for themselves. But there are some brief general comments that I want to make. 
The Government is putting forward this scheme in its role as a responsible employer, concerned for the well-being of its employees not only during their working lives but also in their years of retirement. The scheme is not ungenerous, neither is the present scheme; the new scheme will take its place amongst the leading superannuation schemes in Australia, but it will still not lead the field. There is, for reasons that have been well documented, an urgent need to replace the present scheme. The outside experts,  Mr Melville  and Professor Pollard, from whom the Government obtained independent advice, agreed that it should be replaced. They commended the design of the new scheme and supported the basic approach as an answer to the complex problem of superannuation for Australian Government employees. The Government considers superannuation to be a right of all employees. The level of superannuation on a person's retirement should be related to the kind of standard he or she has been able to establish during his or her working life. The scheme provided by this Bill should achieve that objective. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Superannuation Bill 1975, I now introduce the Superannuation Act Amendment Bill 1975 that makes certain necessary changes to the Superannuation Act 1922-1974 consequent upon the introduction of the new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees and certain other changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Superannuation Bill 1975, I now introduce the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Bill 1975 that makes certain necessary changes to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1974 consequent upon the introduction of the new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees and certain other changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
Representations have been received from blind peoples 's organisations requesting exemption from tax for pensions paid to blind persons of age pension age. Pensions paid to such persons are, as they have always been, means test free. 
Full consideration was given to the position of blind age pensioners when the package of measures associated with the abolition of the means test was introduced following the 1973-74 Budget. At that time, the Government announced that a special transitional benefit of $3 a week would be paid to blind age pensioners in recognition of the fact that, because their pensions were already free of means test, abolition and the associated subjection of pensions to tax would disadvantage blind age pensioners where they had significant amounts of taxable income other than their pension. It was also decided that the transitional benefit would be gradually phased out with subsequent increases in pension rates and that process has recently been completed. Blind age pensioners are, of course, also eligible for the age tax rebate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Private sector fixed investment has declined in real terms from the record levels recorded in 1973-74. 
An economic recovery if it is to be sustained should be appropriately balanced and the Government is seeking an expansion in all forms of spending, including housing and business investment. 
The accelerated depreciation allowance is scheduled to terminate in June. 
Economic conditions and policies are under continual review. It might be noted however that investment allowances are considered to be of limited usefulness in affecting investment decisions. 
-I do not know whether that statement has been quoted in or out of context. Like everyone in this House, I imagine, three or four years ago I underestimated the difficulty of dealing with inflation and unemployment in present circumstances. Let me admit that frankly, and I should be very glad if some honourable members on the other side of the House would agree with me about it. 
The section of the Act mentioned by the honourable member has been brought to my attention. I understand it has been designed to allow the Commissioner of Taxation to arrive at a proper tax assessment when information is not available or when it could be concealed. The wording of the section, however, indicates that it is possible that the application of the paragraphs could be of advantage to overseas companies, including film companies. I am aware of the honourable member's interest in this matter. I have not yet had enough information to make up my own mind about the meaning of the sections. As soon as I have it, I will supply him with the information. 
-I am aware of this matter. I am also aware of the concern of the people associated with the company and many other people as a result of the action by the Japanese company concerned. It does not appear that the action of the Japanese company is in any way an infringement of the foreign exchange regulations or the takeover regulations that have been applied by this Government and by its predecessors. In fact, there may be nothing directly of a legal nature that the Government can do to prevent this action. It seems to me, on the evidence that I have obtained about it, that it must be said to be a very unwise action by the Japanese company concerned. I should imagine that it ought to be guided by that in its conduct and realise that good relations, which are essential for its operations in this country, may in fact be endangered by actions of this kind. 
-I assure the honourable member that as soon as the final Asprey Committee report and the Matthews Committee report are available to us they will be made available to the House and to every member for their information. He correctly sees the situation as most significant. I would be glad to facilitate in every way the participation of every honourable member of the House in arriving at the decisions which will have to be made by the Government in the Budget in August. I want to have the most informed debate and the most constructive debate. I know that criticism is the role of the Opposition but the economic situation of the nation at the moment, especially in respect of the profitability of the private sector upon which the overwhelming percentage of employment depends, is so serious that I believe we have to look at this from a national point of view. We have to do everything possible on the one hand to encourage investment and production during the course of the next 12 months yet, at the same time contribute the least possible amount to inflationary factors. These 2 things are not consistent. It may be possible to encourage production and enterprise investment, yet it may have some inflationary consequences. These things have to be weighed up very carefully. The information provided in the 2 reports which the honourable member mentioned should be very useful and I want to see them made available as soon as possible. 
I assure the honourable member that I have received no representations from the National Country Party, or even from its several predecessors, or from sections of the Country Party in the different States- none whateverin respect of cutting government expenditure in the very extensive area of assistance that has been given to primary industry. For the information of the House I mention that this year $950m has been provided in assistance to industry and $670m of that $950m has been provided to primary industry. I think some of the details could be mentioned for the information of members of the National Country Party and the several other Country Parties who seem to have missed the point. The wool marketing assistance amounts to $380m, of which the Australian Wool Corporation has received $3 50m; the rural reconstruction program has received $30m; the fertiliser bounty $46m; the advance to the Commonwealth Bank for rural lending $20m; and, as the Minister for Northern Development has just mentioned, he will be introducing a Bill into the House today that will provide more than that again. An amount of $ 18m will be allocated for irrigation; $ 12m in respect of dairy farm reconstruction - 
Opposition members- Loans! 
-I am sorry,  Mr Speaker.  I would welcome a suggestion from the right honourable member for Lowe as to anywhere he thinks we ought to reduce expenditure, specifically and in detail. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments to the States for flood relief and restoration purposes in 1973-74 and in 1974-75 (to 1 April 1975) have been as follows: 
1973-74 
1974-75 (tol Apr. 1975) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question raises issues of policy with respect to which the Government's intentions will be made known at the appropriate time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Visualtek Read Write System is subject to sales tax at the rate of 1 5 per cent unless it is purchased by an organisation or institution entitled to exemption from sales tax. Public benevolent institutions- and these include many institutions that look to the welfare of blind persons- are entitled to exemption from sales tax on goods purchased for their use and not for resale. Such an institution would be entitled to exemption from sales tax on purchases of the Visualtek Read Write System provided that the equipment is not acquired for resale. The exemption is not limited to equipment for use on premises belonging to such an institution but applies also where equipment owned hy such an institution is made available for use by partially sighted persons in their own homes or otherwise away from the institution's premises. 
None. As a general principle, concessions granted through the taxation system are regarded as being an inefficient and inequitable way of providing welfare assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Numerous statements have been made by Ministers on the causes of the present rate in inflation; it would not be practicable to refer to them all. Two of the more recent of my own speeches on this subject were the address I gave to the Federal Conference of the ALP in February and my speech to the House on IS April 1975. 
The Government has taken many actions to combat inflation since it assumed office in December 1972; see also the statements referred to in the answer to part (2) of this question. 
My most recent comprehensive speech on this subject was to the House on 15 April 1975. 
Yes, and to other particular and general factors as well. 
I saw no person when I was in Jeddah about any prospective $2,000m loan. I had discussions with the Governor of the Saudi 
Arabian Monetary Authority about the prospects of direct loans to the Australian Government, having been authorised by an Act of this Parliament to seek funds overseas for the Australian Industry Development Corporation to the extent of $250m and having the Executive Council authority for that purpose. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority is favourably disposed towards lending to Australia on a long-term basis and was prepared to offer $250m as a first instalment. The composition and the terms and rates of the loan are still under discussion. Until these matters of composition and rates are finalised it cannot be taken any further. 
The answer to the first question is yes, the answer to the second question is yes, and the answer to the third is that I did not. 
I am aware of the statements made by the Premier of Western Australia about the $2,000m loan. I will make available to Parliament at any time my knowledge of that transaction as I have done from the beginning. 
-No, for the reasons that have already been given in answers to questions on that point by the Prime Minister and by the Minister concerned. I think this House and this nation would have welcomed success in the attempt that was made to raise a loan for national purposes. Had that attempt come to fruition, I think the States would have benefited from the transaction. It seems to me unreasonable to look at the situation in any other way. As I have explained to this House several times, since 1973 and the increase in the price of oil, an amount of some $60,000m has changed directionit has come under the control of different people, and a large amount of that money was being invested for wealthy individuals in various financial circles in Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe. 
I think that this Government, as did every other government, had a responsibility to ascertain the circumstances which existed with respect to the availability of those funds. I believe that our Government and other governments that took similar steps were justified in exploring the new areas for available funds and available investment. I think that was a perfectly reasonable step to take, and I believe, as I explained when I was first asked a question on this matter in Australia, that had our Government not taken the steps to explore the new circumstances we should have been vulnerable to criticism for failing to do so. 
-I think it is obviously the case that a tax of this sort adds to costs. If it is possible to eliminate taxes that have that effect it is desirable to do so, in times of inflation or at any time for that matter. However, I point out to the House, that the demands for revenue, for State purposes particularly and for general Australian Government purposes, are so great at present that it is extremely difficult to make any effective adjustment of tax rates to reduce the revenue coming from those sources. For some weeks now the Government has had the tax system constantly under study- that study will continue right up to the preparation of the Budgetwith the idea of adjusting the tax system so as to have the best possible anti-inflationary effect. I assure the honourable member that payroll tax, along with other forms of tax, will be taken into account in that respect. 
This matter has been considered not only by the present Government but also by previous governments. I think the introduction of such a scheme is unlikely in the near future. 
The answer is yes. 
The information that I gave yesterday about the discussions with the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is about as far as I can go. I cleared with the governor the matter of publicity. Normally the Monetary Authority is quite averse to any publicity being given to negotiations being held with it. I cleared with the Authority that it approved the statement that we have had discussions and the amount involved. I do not intend to go any further in the matter. 
I am not exactly aware when the Prime Minister first became aware of these letters. I think it could have been a week or  a fortnight ago; I am not sure. Perhaps you had better ask him. 
-There are now signs of a beginning of a recovery. Recent figures for retail sales show a significant increase. There are increases in the rates of private investment in the basic parts of the economy and there is every sign that the fundamental strength of the economy, which is revealed from the figures of the last 2 years, in now beginning to show effect. Incomes of wage and salary earners have grown consistently faster than the cost of living since December 1972. Between the December quarter in 1972 and the December quarter in 1974 the consumer price index increased by 31.6 per cent but average weekly earnings increased by 46.8 per cent. The average minimum weekly award rate for males increased by 53 per cent and the average minimum award rate for females by 75 percent. 
Real average weekly earnings, and this is the significant thing, over that 2-year period before tax increased by 11.5 per cent. Real average weekly earnings after tax increased by 7.3 per cent. In no other country during that 2-year period did real average weekly earnings increase by anything like that amount. There was a real increase of 7.3 per cent in 2 years. Whereas in Australia real average weekly earnings before tax increased by 11.5 per cent, in the United States of America there was a decline of 5.8 per cent. I want to emphasise those figures: In Australia there was an increase of 1 1.5 per cent in that 2-year period while in the United States of America there was a decline of 5.8 per cent. In Australia the unemployment figure is now 4.4 per cent and in the United States it is 9.4 per cent. 
That is the difference in unemployment, if the honourable member for 
Berowra wants the figures. In the calendar year 1974 Australia's gross national product grew by 1.7 per cent in real terms compared with the preceding calendar year 1973. In the same period there was a decline in the United States of 2.2 per cent, in Japan a decline of 3.7 per cent, and in Great Britain a decline of 0.2 per cent. In West Germany there was a marginal increase of 0.4 per cent. In the nations belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as a whole there was a decline of 0.3 per cent in real domestic product. 
I think these things have to be kept in perspective. In that 2-year period, as the figures have indicated, the performance of the Australian economy was better, and significantly better, than that of any comparable country, and it provides the basis for a re-assertion of business confidence. In my opinion there is no justification for any significant decline. The evidence suggests now that investment and demand are on the way up, and there is no reason whatever why the economy should not proceed into a period of expansion. 
I never cease to be impressed by the witticisms that come from the honourable member for Wakefield. The information I have just given to the House in answer to the honourable member for Blaxland is an adequate answer to the honourable member for Wakefield. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1705 (Hansard, 28 May 1975, page 2986). 
-I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
The matter that was raised this morning by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is one with which I am very much concerned. I do not think it necessary that there should be any inquiry by the Privileges Committee or in any other way because I think I can inform the House of the facts and I think the House can make up its mind. This matter arose because of the circumstances following the increase in the price of oil when money estimated by various people at from $30,000m to $60,000m had changed hands and was lying in new parts of the world, not yet under the control of the New York and Swiss banking houses and available for investment sometimes on long term favourable conditions much better than those obtained from these institutions. This situation was considered by the Government and we decided that it was wise to investigate the possibilies there were in the new areas of the oil exporting countries to arrange suitable long term loans for Australia. We found that there were many individuals who came forward saying that they knew the location of funds. We were aware that the Saudi-Arabian Monetary Agency was a significant potential lender and we considered that it was desirable that these matters should be properly explored outside the conventional channels. So a number of individuals were interviewed, many of them- most of them, almost all of them- were found very quickly to be worthless; but some appeared to be somewhat different. In March a  Mr George  Harris who was well known to me, to the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, and to at least one or two members of the front bench today, told me he was going to Europe and that while there he might be able to make some inquiries and give me information that might be useful. I considered that  Mr Harris  was trustworthy and therefore I furnished him with 3 notes, one dated 10 March 1 975 which read: 
The Australian Government is willing to borrow funds from lenders overseas on terms and conditions suitable to us. 
Signed J. F. Cairns 
On 15 April I gave him another note addressed 'To Whom it may Concern' which read: 
Recently I have been concerned that persons in Europe and elsewhere claim to represent the Australian Government in negotiating loans. No such authority exists. The Australian Government is interested in borrowing on favourable conditions and should any person be able to assist us, we would be glad to hear from him. I am providing  Mr George  Harris, holder of Australian Passport No. G740206, and whose signature appears in the margin, with this letter so that he may make inquiries for me. If it is felt necessary to confirm the authenticity of this letter, then with the consent of  Mr Harris  this may be done by contact with  Sir John  Bunting, - 
To whom  Mr Harris  was personally known-  the High Commissioner in London or the Australian Ambassador in Switzerland in Berne, or direct with me by Telex. Parliament House, Canberra, Australia. In the event that he recommends that any funds are available and I am satisfied with the authenticity of such availability and the terms and conditions for lending are acceptable to me, and the funds are in amounts sufficient for our needs, I would be pleased to take the matter up. 
On the same day I gave  Mr Harris  a letter, addressed to him, which read:. 
Dear  Mr Harris, 
In the event that the Australian Government or its representatives or nominees successfully negotiates the borrowings of overseas funds introduced or arranged by you. an  appropriate commission would be paid to you or your nominees. 
Yours faithfully, 
That is to say, the normal appropriate commission that would be paid in any circumstances to a person who had in fact assisted in the successful conclusion of a loan. I made clear to  Mr Harris  orally that this created no legal relationship between the two of us, no agency of any sort; it merely authorised him to make inquiries and should he be able to advise the Government in the matter so that a loan resulted from it, then  Mr Harris  would be entitled to proper compensation for it, but until that point no relationship of any kind could be assumed to exist. This to me was a matter that required no further attention at all and the letters to which I have just referred were filed away in my office. When I returned from overseas recently I found that the letters were not in my office; they were missing. I also found in an official Treasury file No. 75/038 a note, written on the notepaper of the Office of the Treasurer. It is written to the Secretary of the Treasury and reads: 
I attach for your information a copy of a letter dated IS April which was on file in this office. I understand you have already seen a copy of a letter of the same date headed 'To Whom it may Concern'. 
It is signed 'Ed. Shann' and the date is 6 May. Also in the same file is a note to the Secretary which reads: 
I understand you have discussed this matter with the Treasurer. This letter was passed out to me for filing and in the circumstances I think you should be aware of it. While the letter is not stamped as having been signed by the Treasurer, the imprint of his signature is visible on the file copy and can be faintly seen on the photocopy. Do you wish me to take any follow-up action of any sort? 
-I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
-The matter that was raised this morning by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is one with which I am very much concerned. I do not think it necessary that there should be any inquiry by the Privileges Committee or in any other way because I think I can inform the House of the facts and I think the House can make up its mind. This matter arose because of the circumstances following the increase in the price of oil when money estimated by various people at from $30,000m to $60,000m had changed hands and was lying in new parts of the world, not yet under the control of the New York and Swiss banking nouses and available for investment sometimes on long term favourable conditions much better than those obtained from these institutions. This situation was considered by the Government and we decided that it was wise to investigate the possibilities there were in the new areas of the oil exporting countries to arrange suitable long term loans for Australia. We found that there were many individuals who came forward saying that they knew the location of funds. We were aware that the Saudi-Arabian Monetary Authority was a significant potential lender and we considered that it was desirable that these matters should be properly explored outside the conventional channels. So a number of individuals were interviewed, many of them- most of them, almost all of them- were found very quickly to be worthless; but some appeared to be somewhat different. In March a  Mr George  Harris who was well known to me, to the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, and to at least one or two members of the front bench today, told me he was going to Europe and that while there he might be able to make some inquiries and give me information that might be useful. I considered that  Mr Harris  was trustworthy and therefore I furnished him with 3 notes, one dated 10 March 1975 which read: 
The Australian Government is willing to borrow funds from lenders overseas on terms and conditions suitable to us. 
Signed J. F. Cairns 
On 15 April I gave him another note addressed 'To Whom it may Concern' which read: 
Recently I have been concerned that persons in Europe and elsewhere claim to represent the Australian Government in negotiating loans. No such authority exists. The Australian Government is interested in borrowing on favourable conditions and should any person be able to assist us, we would be glad to hear from him. I am providing  Mr George  Harris, holder of Australian Passport No. G740206, and whose signature appears in the margin, with this letter so that he may make inquiries for me. If it is felt necessary to confirm the authenticity of this letter, then with the consent of  Mr Harris  this may be done by contact with  Sir John  Bunting, - 
To whom  Mr Harris  was personally known- the High Commissioner in London or the Australian Ambassador in Switzerland in Berne, or direct with me by Telex, Parliament House, Canberra, Australia. In the event that he recommends that any funds are available and I am satisfied with the authenticity of such availability and the terms and conditions for lending are acceptable to me, and the funds are in amounts sufficient for our needs, I would be pleased to take the matter up. 
On the same day I gave  Mr Harris  a letter, addressed to him, which read: 
Dear  Mr Harris, 
In the event that the Australian Government or its representatives or nominees successfully negotiates the borrowings of overseas funds introduced or arranged by you, an appropriate commission would be paid to you or your nominees. 
Yours faithfully, 
That is to say, the normal appropriate commission that would be paid in any circumstances to a person who had in fact assisted in the successful conclusion of a loan. I made clear to  Mr Harris  orally that this created no legal relationship between the two of us, no agency of any sort; it merely authorised him to make inquiries and should he be able to advise the Government in the matter so that a loan resulted from it, then  Mr Harris  would be entitled to proper compensation for it, but until that point no relationship of any kind could be assumed to exist. This to me was a matter that required no further attention at all and the letters to which I have just referred were Sled away in my office. When I returned from overseas recently I found that the letters were not in my office; they were missing. I also found in an official Treasury file No. 75/038 a note, written on the notepaper of the Office of the Treasurer. It is written to the Secretary of the Treasury and reads: 
I attach for your information a copy of a letter dated IS April which was on file in this office. I understand you have already seen a copy of a letter of the same date headed 'To Whom it may Concern '. 
It is signed 'Ed. Shann' and the date is 6 May. Also in the same file is a note to the Secretary which reads: 
I understand you have discussed this matter with the Treasurer. This letter was passed out to me for filing and in the circumstances I think you should be aware of it. While the letter is not stamped as having been signed by the Treasurer, the imprint of his signature is visible on the file copy and can be faintly seen on the photocopy. Do you wish me to take any follow-up action of any sort? 
Signed Ed. Shann 13.4.75 
At no point did anyone in the Treasury notify me of any interest in this matter, and at no time did anyone have consent from me to photocopy any letters or to remove them from my office. On return from a conference at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development I received a communication from the Secretary of the Treasurer which contained a letter the Secretary informed me he had received from  Mr Harders,  the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, which shows that  Mr Harders  had been sent two letters for his opinion as to the legal relationship, if any, that they might have established. I noticed immediately on looking at letter A, which was addressed 'To Whom it may Concern', that letter A was not a photostat copy of the original letter but was a typed version of it and had 3 paragraphs instead of four. The 3 paragraphs in the letter did not contain the first paragraph which I have already read to the House which said that I had been concerned at the fact that I knew that a number of people overseas were saying that they had the authority of the Australian Government and no such authority existed. That paragraph was not in the letter that apparently had been sent to  Mr Harders.  There were some changes in the words of this letter. It was not an exact copy; the words were not significant, but I think the first paragraph was. It seems to me that in a matter where the legal relationship between  Mr Harris  and myself was said to be of some importance, this paragraph would surely be important. 
Recently I have been concerned that persons in Europe and elsewhere claim to represent the Australian Government in negotiating loans. No such authority exists. 

 Mr Harris understood that no authority existed between him and me and he was authorised merely to make inquiries and report to me accordingly. After my return to Australia, the Prime Minister informed me of this matter and said that he had received advice that an agency relationship did exist between me and  Mr Harris  and that he thought that was very unwise, and, as a consequence, he considered that I should not remain as Treasurer. I informed him that I considered there was not an agency relationship, that this had been made very clear to  Mr Harris  and had been accepted by him. He was merely authorised to make inquiries. The Prime Minister said: 'You had better see Harders about that. ' I did so. I told  Mr Harders  of the circumstances that I have already described to the House and pointed out that the original reference of the matter to the Attorney-General's Department appeared to have some area of uncertainty which I thought he and I could clear up. As evidence of that uncertainty I mentioned to the House that in this file there is a memorandum signed 'I. Hay', who was a senior officer of the Treasury, dated 9 May 1975, which records that  Mr Menzies,  of the Attorney-General 's Department, had said: 
The Attorney-General's Department are reluctant to give advice without all the background information. 
He,  Mr Menzies,  stressed that the letters were vague and they implied some oral contract. The Department was reluctant to give advice in the circumstances and said that the letters implied some oral contract. However, I was not informed that that was the position of the Attorney-General 's Department. I was not asked by the Treasury whether there was any oral communication or background and I informed  Mr Harders  there was. I told him that the oral background was that  Mr Harris  understood clearly that all he was authorised to do was to make inquiries, to report to me, and, if a satisfactory arrangement did ever eventuate, then and only then would some kind of legal relationship come into existence.  Mr Harris  understood this. 
On being informed of this,  Mr Harders  told me that this made the situation different and, in his opinion, there was now no agency between  Mr Harris  and myself. The Prime Minister had taken the view, however, that there was an error on my part because I had, in fact, dealt with  Mr Harris  contrary to the advice of the Department. I did disagree with that and said so, but after consideration of the matter for the rest of that day I decided that the fair and proper thing to do was to accept the decision of the Prime Minister in the matter, and I so informed the Parliamentary Labor Party on Tuesday morning. I have now given the House all the facts on this matter as I know them to be. I do not think there is any necessity for any inquiry at all. It is a matter of judgment and, if I have made a mistake in judgment, I accept the consequences. 
-The anwer is no. At no stage did I offer a commission of2% or any other amount or give any authority whatever to any person to do anything other than make inquiries. 
-No brokerage fee. Would the honourable member like to ask more questions? 
I have asked  Dr Cairns  to give me a written explanation of the discrepancy tomorrow. 
I have also told  Dr Cairns  that  Mr Phillip  Cairns ' reported activities concerning housing projects in the Melbourne metropolitan area would make it possible for him to make a profit from his position on  Dr Cairns'  staff. 
As I stated in evidence to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament, I regard it as improper for ministerial staff to put themselves or allow themselves to be put, in such a position. I have therefore asked  Dr Cairns  to give me a written explanation of this matter also tomorrow. 
I want first to table a copy of a statutory declaration made in Canberra yesterday by  Mr Leslie  Nagy of Roseville, New South Wales, who is an employer and partner of  Mr George  Harris of Melbourne, Victoria. 
-I ask also that that statutory declaration be included with a number of attached documents and incorporated in Hansard. 
-I thank the House. It is rather inconvenient from up here. It is my responsibility and duty in this national Parliament today to defend myself. I do not intend to talk politics. I do not intend to use the exaggerations for political reasons that we have heard recently from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  I intend to be fairly precise. I intend to seek to defend myself with the full sense of responsibility to the Government and to the Australian Labor Party of which I am part. If it were not for that I would not be here. I am not concerned with a collection of letters, a collection of international communications and meetings here and there. I am concerned first of all with one matter, that is, whether I misled this House on 4 June 1975. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for what I understood he was saying about that when I think he said that no-one would believe that I did mislead the House. But I have a responsibility of convincing honourable members about that and of convincing the people of Australia as well. On 4 June 1975 I answered a question in this House from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and by interjection from the Leader of the Opposition whether in a letter dated on or about 5 March I had offered a commission or brokerage fee of  2Vi  per cent on any loan money arranged by the recipient of the letter or his company. I answered that question by saying no. I said that at no stage did I offer a commission or brokerage fee at 2  Vi  per cent or any other amount. 
I have stated continuously since 4 June that I would explain this matter to this House alone and to no one else. I found myself compelled to depart from that when the Prime Minister demanded an explanation, but it is to the House and to the House alone that I propose to explain publicly. Had the House been in session when I discovered there was evidence that I may have signed a letter referring to a brokerage fee of 2Vi per cent under certain conditions, I would have come back to the House and said: 'On 4 June I answered a question truthfully to the best of my recollection but I have now seen evidence that perhaps I might have been wrong. If I was wrong I want to correct that impression and say to the House: 'Please accept my apology'.' I would have done the same thing as I have heard other honourable members do on dozens of occasions during the 20 years in which I have been a member of this House. The House no doubt would have accepted by explanation, as it has accepted theirs. I take now the first opportunity I have had since 4 June 1975 to explain to the House about this matter. 
I did have authority to have discussions with people about overseas loans. I had that authority in terms of an Act of this Parliament authorising the Government to borrow $2 50m on behalf of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and I had that authority in terms of an Executive Council minute authorising me to do that. On 7 March I had interviewed George Harris and Leslie Nagy in my office in Melbourne. They asked me to provide them with a letter offering a brokerage fee of 2 per cent, provided that a loan could be arranged at a total cost of 8 per cent. I made it clear to them that a loan could not be arranged under those conditions, that they would be wasting their time if they thought so, and that I would not provide any letter or other document making an offer of this kind. I have a clear and positive recollection of rejecting the proposal about the 2Vi per cent brokerage fee and the 8 per cent interest rate. When I answered the question in this House on 4 June 1975 I had this clear recollection. I answered the question in accord with that recollection. This is still my clear and positive recollection of the matter. I have no recollection that I offered to anyone at any time a brokerage fee of  Vh  per cent or any other amount. Since then  Mr Harris  has given me a letter dated 7 March 1975, which apparently bears my signature, which does offer a brokerage fee of  2Vi  per cent, provided a loan was obtained which did not exceed an interest rate of 8 per cent per annum in total. I assure the House that I have no recollection whatever of having signed this letter and it was completely contrary to my expressed intention to  Mr Harris  and to  Mr Nagy,  and indeed to several others, both prior to and after 7 March 1975. 
On many occasions I have been approached by people who said they could find funds overseas from oil country sources on terms and conditions much better than the conventional ones from the United States or from Western Europe. I believed this to be true and I still believe it to be true, and I believe that if we seriously followed up the opportunities that are available it would be possible for this nation to gain a very great amount from entering into new financial relations with Middle Eastern countries. I was convinced that it was in the interests of Australia that this matter should be fully explored. I agreed with the initial decision by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  and the then Attorney-General, at a meeting at the Lodge early in December that this should be done. From discussions with other Ministers, and on my own behalf as Treasurer, I decided that the position I should take was that we should allow certain people to make inquiries on our behalf to ascertain if loan funds were available and to report back to us if they found good prospects. The Prime Minister fully accepted this approach. 
In my own discussions with the many persons who approached me, in every case I laid down a number of conditions. First was the one that the Australian Government gave no one the right to negotiate or act as its agent in respect of any loan. They were entitled only to look around and to report back to us, and I usually emphasised that it should be to me. Further, I emphasised in all cases that I would not agree to any conditions in advance- interest, emission, brokerage or commission. On more than one occasion- in fact, I suppose on many- I rejected proposals by people who wanted me to be specific about these matters as I rejected them to  Mr Harris  and to  Mr Nagy.  I told those I thought were reliable: 'Find out what you can and let me know. If the prospects look reasonable I will then ensure that Treasury, Reserve Bank or Commonwealth Bank officials take up the matter and decide whether the money is available and decide what we should pay for it in interest, commission or brokerage'. On several occasions this is precisely what was done. 
At no stage did I ever attempt to conduct negotiations. At every stage I made it clear to everyone to whom I spoke that no agency obligation or responsibility could possibly arise until a loan acceptable to the Australian Government was actually undertaken. I was clear and specific in this respect in the case of  Mr Harris  and  Mr Nagy  as in every other. I believe that nothing whatever they may consider they had in terms of a letter could possibly be claimed to have any validity in excess of what I said to them verbally, with clarity and with emphasis. 
Indeed, I did not consider I had to be suspicious or careful about  Mr Harris.  He had come to me with a letter which stated he had established relations with several Victorian State Government authorities, including the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. I knew he had easy and close access to Victorian Ministers, including the Premier. He appeared to be a personal friend of  Sir Robert  Menzies. On 7 March 1975 I had no reason to suspect that  Mr George  Harris could be capable of" any deception. Perhaps I do wear my heart too easily on my sleeve. Perhaps I am too willing to encourage those who want to break through the rigours of the establishment, but on 7 March 1975 I had no reason to believe that  Mr George  Harris would do anything that was inconsistent with my clearly expressed verbal desires and intentions. Perhaps I do wear my heart too easily on my sleeve. Perhaps if I do that I am not suitable to be a Minister of this nation. If that is the decision of the Government of the nation I accept it because I will not cease to wear my heart on my sleeve. 
I ask honourable members to look specifically at the position on 4 June 1 975 when I said in this House that I had not offered anyone a commission or a brokerage fee of  2Vi  per cent or any other amount. I had already seen what purported to be a photostat copy of a statutory declaration by  Mr Alexander  Daniel Thomson of Warriewood in New South Wales which did not contain any copy of my signature but merely a typewritten name. I knew that  Mr Thomson  was closely connected with the Liberal Party and must have been in touch with  Mr Lynch  who had asked me the question or perhaps with  Mr Fraser  who asked the question more accurately. I believe that  Senator Wood  had tried, I think unsuccessfully, to put  Mr Thomson  in touch with me and that  Senator Wood  had been a co-director of a company with  Mr Thomson  and a shareholder of many shares in this company which showed a very substantial loss. I knew that had I made an offer or given a letter to  Mr Harris  in the terms decribed by  Mr Lynch,  or more accurately as I said by  Mr Fraser, Mr Harris  would use that letter. I knew its use would become well known in Europe and in Australia, especially to people like  Mr Thomson. 
I ask the House: Would I, in those circumstances, have denied that I had given  Mr Harris  that letter if, in fact, I had known that I had done so, knowing that  Mr Harris  would have used such a letter to locate funds overseas or attempt to do so and knowing that it had already become known to  Mr Thomson  and to  Mr Lynch?  Would I have been stupid enough to deny it had I remembered or known that I had signed it? I have been severely punished for my association with  Mr Harris.  I was deprived of my position of Treasurer of this country for asking  Mr Harris  to inquire in Europe whether funds were available for Australia on terms and conditions favourable to us on the payment of an appropriate commission. But I did not knowingly mislead this House. 
I have been told also to account for the conduct of my son Phillip who is said to have placed himself in a position in which he could profit from his position on my staff. This is apparently because he agreed to take one share in a nonprofit organisation- Sunshine Migrant Services Pty Ltd. He provided me with a statement when I was asked by the Prime Minister to get the statement. It reads as follows: 
It has been suggested that I - 
That is, Phillip Cairnscarried  out activities which would make it possible to make a profit from my position on your staff. My association with the private company, Sunshine Migrant Services Pty Ltd, was to see that the concept of leasing sub-division and low cost housing with a fully integrated community type development could be achieved. The company was not to be involved in profit making of any kind and there was no possibility of profit to me from association with it. The issue to me of one share was to allow me to sit on the board of the company to help ensure that the objectives of the company were achieved. 
I was in no way associated with any suggestions that I should receive a share of commission on an overseas loan and I have in my possession an affidavit signed by  Mr Sear  Cowls- the signatory of the telexes which have been published- which can be made available and which indicates clearly that I was not involved in any way. I did not intend to accept, nor would I have accepted, any commission on any overseas loan. I have not received at any time any remuneration outside my government salary and I have never used my position to further my personal interest or to obtain any personal gain or reward. I have not, nor would I take part in activities which could make it possible for me to profit from my position on your staff. 
I was not aware that my son Phillip held one share in Sunshine Migrant Services Pty Ltd. I was not aware that any telexes had been sent from Australia by  Mr Sear  Cowls. I have to be responsible for the actions of a member of my staff but when I was asked for an explanation I was not aware of those activities. If I was satisfied that Phillip Cairns or anyone else had tried to profit or put himself in a position of profiting from a position on my staff he would have been dismissed immediately, no matter who he was.  Mr Speaker  and gentlemen, whatever I might think of this matter I was not going to dismiss Phillip Cairns last week in an attempt to save myself. 
I would like to return to the more important matter that I might have misled this House and the circumstances associated with it. I ask the House, the Government and the nation: As Treasurer of this nation was I or was I not able and qualified to give 2 letters to a man apparently of the best standing, but enterprising and active, to inquire about overseas loans and to report back to me? That man has written above his own signature as late as 2 June, and has widely stated in the media, that he never had any right or authority in excess of that or ever intended to assert or use it. I ask the House: Was it not a reasonable exercise of my power as Treasurer to give letters to a private individual asking him to try to find available funds for the nation, and that if he were successful appropriate commissions could be paid? Even if this did establish a legal relationship, is the Treasurer of the nation not entitled to do that? No one has shown me any law which says that is not so. 
In the case of my own Government, was the Treasurer not entitled to do that when the Prime Minister and other senior Ministers had turned to private individuals in December 1974? Was it wrong for me not to involve Treasury officials in a decision with a private individual when the Prime Minister, other senior Ministers and I had decided to choose an alternative to the Treasury in December 1974? Frankly, I did not have confidence that conventional officials would treat seriously anything that private individuals could do in the search for overseas funds. 
Is this not an important matter? Is it not important to explore the new world of available capital? Was it not important in the interests of the Australian nation, as I stated to this House on several occasions in explanation and justification of what the Minister for Minerals and Energy had done, to realise that as much as $60,000m of liquid funds has been diverted from conventional financiers in New York and in Western Europe to the Middle East? Was it not important to realise that the conventional financiers in New 
York and Western Europe would seek to regain control of those liquid funds and prevent countries like Australia from gaining direct access to them in the Middle East? Was it not important to realise that conventional officials working with these New York and Western European financiers are not ideally equipped to break through? Were we not justified in trying to break through even by asking unconventional private individuals to make inquiries and to report back to us. What was all the fuss about? 
I do not know the truth, but I was assured by  Mr Harris  and by  Mr Nagy  that their efforts were successful, that they had been successful in finding funds of over $ 1,500m available on favourable terms and conditions for Australia. But this matter has now become paralysed. I was successful in receiving an initial offer from the Saudi Arabia monetary authority of $250m under more favourable conditions as I corresponded with that authority. This prime opportunity to establish relations with a country with liquid reserves greater than the United States of America has too become paralysed by the Australian media and by the way in which many in turn have been paralysed by the media. Australia has been deprived of these funds by Press hysteria and by the acceptance of it by' men who should know better. 
The reaction to my 2 letters to the apparently much respected and influential  Mr Harris  is not the end of it. I have heard little from  Mr Harris,  but I have heard much in writing from some who were very closely associated with him in these activities. I have tabled a statutory declaration made by a man, at considerable risk to himself, who says that he is a supporter of the Liberal Party and an opponent of the Labor Party but that he is convinced that a great injustice has been done. 
The removal of me from the position of Treasurer of this Government was not the end of it. I have been removed from the position of Minister for Environment for a reply to the Prime Minister, which he considered unsatisfactory, on whether I had misled the House in my answer to questions on 4 July. I ask this House: Does it consider that I should pay any further penalty? I ask the House to consider a little my position. How many Ministers or members are subject to the pressures which have been applied to me? How many others are in a position like mine, in which the editor of a responsible newspaper like the Melbourne  Age  admitted to me that his paper paid 8,000 for documents which were used against me without reference to me in any way but one which would have damaged me still further? 
Does any Minister or member of this House have a member of his staff who has been offered, as Miss Glenda Bowden has been offered by the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  a sum increasing from $3,000 to $15,000 as the bid went up to write articles about the personal details of my office and of my life? Does anyone have a member of his staff who would refuse such an offer as Miss Bowden has refused this offer? I wonder how well some of the Ministers and members of this House would look if they were subject to that kind of scrutiny. I do know that members of my staff have been offered money even to provide telephone numbers and other information, which they have refused. I know that countless details appear distorted unfairly in the Press all over Australia about me and about members of my staff. I have heard that hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent by the Press in Australia and in many overseas countries with a view to damaging me and the Australian Government. What have they discovered as a result of this intense scrutiny, this enormous expense, this vast spread of publicity? That I have employed some attractive women- women, more unfairly misrepresented about this nation than any other people in it, who have served me with a loyalty and dedication that I have not experienced up to now, and I do not intend to be intimidated about any one of them. They have discovered that I have employed my son, and it is said that I have become inaccessible. I wonder if any Minister in this House can claim to have been seen by more people than I have over the last 6 months or can claim to have had his heart more on his sleeve than I have had. I also have explored unconventional areas of international finance. All this criticism has been made by people, most of whom are delighted at any of my failures. 
I think it is time that this Parliament looked seriously at these activities and these pressures and decide whether there is to be any limit to the power of the Press to destroy or to damage prime ministers, deputy prime ministers or members of the national Parliament by these methods and by the use of the power of money. I think the average citizen also should take note of the power of the media and of the power of money. If the media can do what it has done, or has caused to be done, to me, what can it do to the individual citizen? What can it do to the people? 
I take it that I have one main point on which to satisfy this House now. The Prime Minister said that my explanation of the answer I gave to this 
House on 4 June was unsatisfactory, and I take it that that is the main reason why I am no longer a member of this Goverment. My reply may have been unsatisfactory in the sense that I should have been more careful in some letter which I may or may not have signed; perhaps I should not have worn my heart so easily on my sleeve. If that is the reason for the unsatisfactory nature of the reply, I accept it. But the charge, as I understand it, is that I misled the House. All I can say is that I have a clear and positive recollection of rejecting a proposal for a  2y2  per cent brokerage fee put to me by a man who at that time I trusted. I have no recollection of ever offering to  Mr Harris  or anyone else a commission or brokerage fee of 2VS per cent or any other amount. When I answered the question about that in this House I answered according to what I believe to be true. I answered it in clear and sincere belief that what I said is true and I rest my defence upon that belief. It is up to the House and the people of Australia to judge. I leave it to you. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-1974, authorises the publication of papers relating to overseas loan negotiations presented to the House by the honourable member for Lalor this day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As at 31 March 1975 $35,000 had been spent as follows: 
A grant of $5,000 was made to assist in financing the Radical Ecology Conference convened in Melbourne from 28 to 3 1 March; 
The Australian Conservation Foundation was granted $20,000 to assist in producing a film on The Great Barrier Reef; and 
The first payment of $10,000 was made to Spectrum International Marketing Services Pty Ltd for research undertaken in preparation for the Public Environmental Awareness Program. The total cost of this work was $20,000. 
In reply to the honourable member's question, the following information is provided: 
1 ) Some measure of co-operation has been achieved with the States in implementing acceptable kangaroo management and conservation programs. 
The export ban has been lifted for skins and products from kangaroos taken in accordance with approved management programs operating in New South Wales/South Australia 
The three other States which commercially export kan garoos- Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmaniaave not yet implemented kangaroo management programs satisfactory to the Australian Government and export permits will not be issued for skins and skin products originating from these States until such time as I am completely satisfied with these programs. 
It is understood that Western Australian legislation has been amended so that kangaroos are no longer classified as vermin. The Queensland Government introduced a tagging system on 1 March 1975 and I am hopeful that a satisfactory decision on the Queensland program, and the reserve system for the protection of kangaroos, will be reached shortly. The management program in Tasmania is unsatisfactory because there is only limited provision for the monitoring of populations of species commercially exploited and inadequate control over the numbers of wallabies harvested. The Tasmanian authorities are currently working to overcome these problems. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Would he agree that the future of East Timor should be determined by its own people and not by Indonesia, Portugal, Australia, or any other country? If this is so, may it not be that the future of East Timor may have to be determined by the forces of FRETILIN and UDT and perhaps, most unfortunately, by the clash of those forces? Can he say which of these forces, if any, may now most fully express the will of the people of East Timor? Does he not consider it would be most unfortunate if Indonesia interfered in the internal affairs of East Timor? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question about Timor. Does he agree that whilst there is no general food shortage in Timor there is a need for foods like milk and some grains which could be easily supplied by Australia? Will he make sure that every effort is made to satisfy those needs and that those efforts are not delayed by any lack of initiative by the Portuguese authorities? Will he also see that whatever effort Australia can make to prevent any foreign intervention in the affairs of Timor will be made? 
Will the Prime Minister inform the Government of Indonesia that the Australian Government is strongly opposed to any military action by it in East Timor and that any such military action would endanger the good relations between Indonesia and Australia? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the reports of the tragic murdering in Angola of mercenaries enlisted in Britain and of reports that similar attempts have been made to get mercenaries in Australia, will he make sure as far as possible that no Australians are involved in tragic events of that kind? 
-The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has said that the Fraser Government is going to go back 30 years. A great many people in Australia feared very much, when that Government was elected, that it was going to go back much further than 30 years, perhaps well into the 1 9th century. I accept the assurance of the honourable member that the Fraser Government will be going back only 30 years to just after World War II. I know the importance of the concept of full employment to the honourable member for Lilley and many other people. I realise that he is thinking of it in the terms of William, Lord Beveridge, who was the advocate of full employment 30 years ago. I would rather say that full employment as Western society has known it for 30 years is extremely unlikely to occur again. Rather than have a government saying that its purpose is to re-establish full employment we ought to have a government that is more inclined to say: 'For very identifiable reasons there is going to be a lot more unemployment now and in the future than in the past, and it will be much more sensible to design policies to make unemployment acceptable rather than to have unemployment constantly used as the strongest weapon against policies of growth, as it has been in recent times'. 
The honourable member for Lilley was very keen to say that it was the Australian Labor Party Government that had broken the contract of full employment. Surely he has not failed to notice that in every country similar to Australia in the last three or four years the contract of full employment has been broken. In every country, I think without exception- West Germany was an exception for a little while- unemployment is higher than it is in Australia. and especially higher if we allow for the greater quantity of unemployment that is measured in Australia. The contract of full employment has been broken in every capitalist country in the last three or four years, significantly so. It is likely to continue to be broken in every capitalist country. Therefore I think it probably is very wise, in the interests of the people, that for political reasons governments like this one should not be claiming that they are going to bring back full employment. If we measure it in terms of what we have been used to measuring it in the past, of 1 per cent or 2 per cent, or less than 2 per cent, it is extremely unlikely that will be done. 
Perhaps it is of equal importance to look at inflation. Inflation and its consequences are the main economic and political problem in Australia today. So far it has not been possible to reduce inflation rapidly, because of the consequences of a high level of unemployment and a low output for a . very long time- a loss of perhaps $10,000m of output a year for much more than a year. The costs of this are far higher than any government in a country such as this has so far been prepared to face. For those who are not much worried by loss of jobs, this loss of profit, income and money will be so worrying, I should think, as to prevent even a Fraser government looking back 30 years or, as some of us suspect, looking back to the 19th century. It would be impossible for even a Fraser government to go that far. We will leave open our judgment on that until the next Budget, because it might try the application of conventional economic theory between now and the next Budget. 
So that we do not miss the views that people around the world have on the application of conventional economic theory, I shall quote some. In my view, analysis and policy about inflation are today inadequate, misleading and contradictory. They are as inadequate, misleading and contradictory now about inflation as they were about depression 40 years ago. I am not the only one to hold that opinion. Geoffrey Barraclough has written a series of articles in the  New York Review  of books in the last 12 months. They are a review of practically everything that has been written around the world on this subject, most of it quite unfamiliar in Australia. In the last page of one article in the series Barraclough sums up the views of those he has been reviewing when he states: 
What is clear, in any case, is that there is no solution within the existing system. 
There he is talking about inflation. That view is quite commonly held in other parts of the world. The economic theories that we have and use today about inflation are economic theories that have come from theoretical thinking about a world which no longer exists- a world of small scale enterprise, a world of pure or perfect competition. The theories of John Maynard Keynes are not any different from that. Keynes brought about what is called the Keynesian revolution in 1935 by pointing out that in that system the equilibrium of full employment was only an accidential equilibrium. The equilibrium might be considerably below full employment. Therefore certain policies ought to be followed to raise that equilibrium to full employment. When that had been done Keynes, more than any one else, said: 'Now having got there the conventional theory becomes completely applicable'. That is not so. Increasingly over the last 60 or 70 years, that competitive system, if it ever existed, has disappeared. 
Now we have enormous national corporations and enormous multi-national corporations. In Australia less than 3 per cent of those corporations control 50 per cent of employment, income and output. Three out of every 100 control more than 50 per cent. Not only do we have those enormous national and multi-national corporations that dominate the economy but also we have extremely powerful unions which have grown to allow the worker to obtain his share of income that that system generates. If the trade unions had not grown and become militant and strong in those circumstances- they could because there was something like full employment- the workers' standard would have declined. So we have powerful business corporations and powerful unions. In addition we have a powerful Public Service. So we have three enormous power blocs in the modern society. We do not have a competitive system from which the economic theory was designed. We have something totally different. So the economic theory that has been designed for that system is no longer appropriate for it. 
Economics today is inadequate and contradictory about inflation because it is concerned only with income and employment in what is assumed to be a competitive system. It is not competitive. The analysis deals with the propensity to consume, the marginal efficiency of capital and the rate of interest. Everything else is taken as given in this enormously powerful economic system. Policy derived from this analysis is mainly relevant to a condition of much less than full employment and suggests, as policy measures, an increase in the propensity to consume and a low rate of interest. This is the policy prescription when there is less than full employment. When there is less than full employment of plant and machines, what then? Although we have a significant amount of unemployment of men and women- 4 per cent or 5 per cent- is it realised that we have a significant amount of unemployment of machines in Australia today? It is between 10 per cent and 15 per cent. In the manufacturing sector it is 20 per cent or 30 per cent. If one has to increase the propensity to consume and has to reduce the rate of interest when one has unemployment of men, what does one do when one has unemployment of machines? Does one reduce the propensity to consume? Does one increase the rate of interest? That is what the conventional theory tells one. I think that is what the Government is getting ready to do- to reduce the propensity to consume. 
It is all right for the honourable member for Lilley to talk about indexation of wages, but what chance does indexation of wages have in Australian today? It has Buckley's chance. It is all right for him to talk about indexation of taxation, but the few dollars that the Government will put into indexation of taxation in the coming Budget will not be worth noticing. The Government will not be increasing the propensity to consume; it will be reducing that propensity. I fail to see how it can reduce the rate of interest. So I think that whatever way we look at the matter, Barraclough 's conclusion is right. In this kind of system there is no solution. Keynes went further than this. There are sections of the  General Theory  of employment, interest and money that are never read in the universities because they are not algebraic. A simple non-algebraic reading of the  General Theory  reveals Keynes' belief that in conditions of full employment the marginal efficiency of capital would so decline that it would lead to the euthanasia of the rentier- the money lender. He has never been more powerful than he is today. The money lender can borrow at 14 per cent and lend at a profit. There has been no euthanasia of the rentier in the modern full employment society. Keynes said: 
A comprehensive socialisation of investment will prove the only means of securing an approximation of full employment. 
That is at page 375 of  General Theory.  At page 320 Keynes wrote: 
In conditions of  laissez faire  ... I conclude that the duty of ordering the current volume of investment cannot safely be left in private hands. 
He did not foreshadow how these results could be brought about, but the great prophet of the contemporary economic theory which the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia want to apply and which this Govenmet therefore eventually will apply realised that the  laissez faire  theory was not appropriate in the circumstances. Something was necessary to order the current volume of investment. Whatever way we look at progress in this respect, it means we must think of a system that has three great power blocs- the private corporations, national and international, the powerful unions and the powerful Public Service. In some ways some planning has to come about, but that is extremely far off in Australia. To show that the thinking in other places is in terms such as this I would like to read the last paragraph of Barraclough's series of articles in the  New York Review  of books. He said that there must be some basic change somewhere in the system. He said: 
What it will be; how far it will depart from the present system, no one can predict. On the whole, I would agree with Heilbroner that the most likely outcome is the 'transformation of "private" capitalism into planned "state" capitalism.' This, he says, is already 'partially realised' in Japan. It was also pretty effectively realised by Hitler- and, the historian with a longer memory might add, in the Byzantine Empire. What we can see, in any case, is that neocapitalism, with its pretensions to have found the answer to Marx, was the expression of a temporary situation, borne along not by its own dynamic but by the upwards wave of the economic cycle; but the vision of a society dedicated to welfare, not to power and profit- the only vision that makes sense in today 's circumstances- still eludes us, and will do so until another crisis, even more crippling than the crisis that is brewing today, brings home to the whole world the perils it faces. 
What I suggest is that thinking in terms of a competitive economy, in terms of laissez-faire, in terms of freedom- freedom of enterprise, competition and so on- we are missing the whole significance of the trend that is going on before our eyes. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  talked about centralism as though there was some special danger in power to Canberra against the federal system, as though that were the threat to freedom. That is not the threat to freedom. 
-Well, it is a threat to freedom. I agree with the honourable member there. 
But it is not the threat to freedom. I am no advocate of power to Canberra. I do not think power to Bourke Street or to Macquarie Street or any other place is much better. But I do not think power here to Canberra is any good. That is a threat to freedom but it is not the threat to freedom. The threat to freedom lies in the 3 powerful complexes that are developing, the complexes of the multi-national and national corporations, of the powerful trade unions and the powerful State bureaucracy whether it be in Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney or anywhere else. I should also mention the complex of the media that serves the essence of that. That is where the threat to freedom is. If honourable gentlemen do not realise that they are missing the whole point. 
There is no chance to react against that. Honourable members opposite should not think there has been any change in the power situation just because there has been a change of government. They will be just as much the victims of that as anyone else is. They will find that out during the course of the next year or two. They will be as much the victims of the economic problems that arise out of this system as we were. The problems that we found in Australia were not the problems of the Australian Labor Government. They were the problems of the system, a system that is the same in every other country. All around the world there is unemployment and inflation, the same sort of power structure everywhere producing the same kind of results. 
I think that honourable members opposite have to be a little more radical in their thinking about this matter. When I see the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  standing up answering questions with that polished Chamber of Commerce confidence of his I feel regretful that he is not able to look at it a little more critically than that because he will come an awful cropper if that is the way he is going to continue looking at this system. I am saying this partly because there is not much of this view in Australia and I think that it is wise to have such a view. One finds it in other countries. 
The conventional methods of Western governments for managing their economies are inadequate, contradictory and dangerous. Many people in other countries realise that but few do here. Little new thinking is being done in the universities here. People like Professor Wheelwright in Sydney who are capable of doing this can never get a chair. Professor Wheelwright has been passed over for 1 1 years. 
Little, of course, is done in the Public Service. I think that Knopfelmacher is more capable of thinking of this than is the honourable member, with all due respect to the honourable member and to Knopfelmacher. In the business community very little is done in this respect. I want to conclude simply by mentioning that recently in Australia 2 people in the business community put forward some ideas that I think were extremely interesting. One was  Mr Louis  Kelso of the United States of America and the other was  Mr Shann  Turnbull, the son of former  Senator Turnbull,  who wrote the book entitled 'Democratising The Wealth of Nations'. What these 2 people really have to say, in brief, is that all our thinking economic and otherwise is in terms of income but none of it is in terms of capital or wealth. 
Turnbull believes, of course correctly, that there can be a greater generation of income by far on the side of capital or wealth than there can be on the other side but that we never think about this aspect. He also believes that until we begin to think about it we will not solve the problems of dealing with inflation or the problems of welfare because there is a jack-up on welfare. People will not pay taxes for this purpose. Until we begin to look at the significance of the capital structure, as I have been saying during the course of this speech, there is little hope for any kind of solution. I do not know whether that solution will be particularly good, but there is no reason why there cannot be some further development in that direction. 
I think a trade union movement tied to capital and thinking more and more in terms of money is not going to be a better trade union movement. But I know that the Australian people are so intent upon money and so keen upon what is called 'the smell of money' that that is likely to be the direction in which we are to go. I would suggest therefore that it is worth looking at the work of people like Kelso and Turnbull to see what the possibilities are in this direction. Finally, if we think exclusively or mainly in terms of conventional economic theory we will continue to be misled and the result will be dangerous. 
-Does the Prime Minister know of reports from apparently reliable sources that, as a result of the $9m cut in the budget of the Schools Commission, at least 30 child care centres in Victoria will have to close and that they could be kept open with additional funds of $1.5m? Can he say whether those facts are true? If so, how many child care centres in Australia as a whole will have to be closed and what would be necessary to keep them going? Will he guarantee to the House and to the people that sufficient funds will be provided to keep these child care centres operating? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the fairly widespread feeling that for the present Government overseas aid has a reduced priority? Will he consider in relation to those views the establishment of an immediate overseas aid group designed to provide needed medical aid and essential food quickly to other countries in the event of floods or earthquakes, such as the one which recently occurred in Guatemala, so that the supply of these essential foods and medical aids can be quickly taken to the spot by Australian aircraft? Will the Minister consider the formation of an immediate overseas aid group of that kind. 
-I ask the Treasurer a question about net borrowing by the Government from the banks in 1974 and 1975. Has the Treasurer seen figures which show that in 1974 net government borrowing from the Central Bank was $832m but from the trading banks was minus $77m, yet in 1975 net borrowing from the Cental Bank was minus $167m and from the trading banks $ 1,442m? Will the Treasurer say something about the differences in cost to the Government in borrowing from the Central Bank as against the trading banks? Who makes these decisions about the distribution of borrowing or the allocation of borrowing between the 2 kinds of banks to bring about such a dramatic change as the figures indicate? What effects would the change in that allocation have upon the money supply? 
-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs a question about the rejection of applications for citizenship on the basis of secret reports. I interviewed 3 men during the weekend whose applications for citizenship have been rejected. On questioning them I found that the common ground for rejection was some kind of suspected political activity- in 2 cases right wing and in one case left wing. Is it a fact that some hundreds, possibly thousands, of people have had their applications for citizenship rejected because of some secret report about which they know nothing and about which members of Parliament like myself who make representations are told nothing? Is the Minister satisfied to continue such a system which, unfortunately, has been going on for a long time under many governments? Will he undertake to review the situation and attempt to find some way in which people whose ambitions for citizenship are summarily rejected will have an opportunity to defend themselves. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence a question about the defence force retirement benefits scheme. It relates to a letter dated 31 March, a copy of which was sent to me. Can the Minister dispel or confirm the rumour that members of the defence forces will not be able in future to commute part of their pension after 20 years service as is now the case, but will have to fulfil the additional requirement of attaining the age of either 50 or 55 years? Will the Minister say whether or not it is the intention of the Government to make that change? 
-I do not know the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  but if I were to judge between him and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  as to who was most inclined to use violence I would say that the honourable member for St George has just proved that he would be. I think the whole of his speech illustrated the kind of violent potential that rests somewhere within his character, in contrast to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who shows none of that. I would say that the violence that has occurred in the history of this nation has come much more from honourable gentlemen like the honourable member for St George than from honourable members of the kind who are on this side of the House. I think violence has always been identified with the conservative forces, with the conservative parties, with the conservative governments. Those governments always have been the first to put this nation into war. It was those governments that put this nation into the war in Vietnam and stood behind that violence all the time. Violence is the act of states, the act of governments. Violence is not the act of people. Rarely do people ever use violence in any situation. Violence is the act of states and the act of governments. If one wants to understand violence one has to understand it as the act of a government. Rarely is there any record of individuals having chosen violence in the course of political action. 
Essentially this debate represents an alternative view of what democracy really is and I think that alternative view is a very important one. But a good deal of the time has been taken up in discussing what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said. He has told honourable members opposite what he said but they do not believe him. They go back to those newspaper reports that he said were not true. Honourable members opposite all know that if newspaper reports are true it is by accident. They all know what happens in the case of newspaper reports, even if no accredited journalist is present. The story is picked up and it is syndicated around Australia. When a mistake is made in the first place that mistake is spread around the country. Honourable members opposite know that very well. You people opposite were not satisfied to accept that what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in the House was what he in fact said. If that is the standard that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for St George are going to set during the rest of their time in this place then I have very grave doubts about the validity of this parliamentary process insofar as they represent it. If they have no respect for a man on this side of the House they can have no respect for one on the other side. 
Let me tell honourable members opposite that I think the tragedy in this nation is the lack of confidence in the ordinary people- those in the galleries and those outside this place- that they can do anything in the government of this country. The tragedy in this nation, as in so many others, is the widespread feeling people have that they cannot do anything about governmentthat it does not matter very much which Party is in office, there is nothing much they can do in the government of their own country. That is the tragedy. Honourable members opposite want it to remain that way. They want to discourage anybody from taking any sort of action. They want to leave the power where it is. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has made it very clear where power is in this nation. He said power does not lie in this Parliament. If honourable members opposite have not found that out yet, they will before long. In 21 years I have found out that power does not lie in this Parliament. Power lies elsewhere. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out that there are 210 000 companies in this nation which, in addition to having more than 50 per cent of the company income of this nation, control over 75 per cent of its property and assets- of everything that is worth while. Wealth is power. 
The media are part of that situation. 
-Of course it is rubbish but it should not exist. It is the rubbish which is at the core of power in any country of this kind and unless the people are prepared to do something for themselves, unless they can derive confidence to do something for themselves, they will be ruled by those places where power is. How can anyone compare the power of a man who owns 6 television stations and 3 national newspapers and countless small newspapers all over the country with the power of a person sitting in the gallery of this Parliament? Of course the owner of a newspaper chain or the owner of a television station network is a thousand times more powerful than an ordinary citizen of this country. That is where power lies, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out. Unless the people of this nation realise that power lies in those places- in the factories, in the huge banks, in the stores, in the media- then they will never be able to govern themselves. 
What is democracy? Democracy is participation by the people in whatever they can in the government of themselves. Democracy is not simply dropping a ballot paper into the box once every 3 years and doing nothing but listening to radio, watching television and reading newspapers until the next time you vote. Is that a definition of democracy? Democracy is not passive consent. Democracy is active participation in every conceivable way that a person can and there is little enough that a person can do.  ( Government supporters interjecting) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

-It does not matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You might call them to order but I think that interrupts me more than it interrupts them. I think democracy is participation. Democracy is doing whatever you can when you can. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, democracy is writing letters to the newspapers, attending meetings, going to demonstrations, taking part in marches. Of course these things are democracy and unless you people opposite realise the significance of participation you miss the meaning of democracy completely and constantly you miss the meaning of democracy except for your own kind. I suppose the honourable member for Denison would not object to Tasmanian apple growers marching in the streets to demonstrate that things were bad among apple growers. I am sure that he should not also complain about members of the trade unions marching in the streets to show that things are bad as far as workers are concerned. I am sure that he should not complain about ordinary people marching in the streets to show that they are against a particular war that we might happen to be involved in. I am sure that he would agree with all those things. 
What is the point that he is complaining about? It seems to me there are 2 words involved. They are 'mass action'. As if there is something wrong with mass action! I hope there are enough people today who feel that it is worth while to do something to bring about mass action in Australia. The trouble is there is far too much feeling that you cannot do anything about things. There is far too little concern among the people of Australia. There is no issue that seems to move them very much. I think that is what the people opposite ought to be complaining about, not the possibility that people suddenly might do something. What are you people opposite scared of ? Should you not be really saying that the kind of country we want is the kind of country in which there are people who really feel concern about something, people who feel that they have to do something to show their meaning and bring home to people whatever view they might have? Why are you people opposite continually trying to scare the people with all these stories about violence? It is because you want to silence them. It is because you want the people with power- the people for whom you are an agent- to hold that power and to exercise it. You want to scare the ordinary citizen into not taking any kind of action in the government of himself, and everybody knows that that is what government is. 
Everybody knows that it has been an unending struggle of the ordinary citizen to get anywhere at any time in the government of his country. He has had to win power from the barons and from the lords in other countries from which we have come. He has had to win power from the squatters, and the squatters are back in office again and they have provided us with a Prime Minister. We know that power lies where there is wealth and we know that if you have not got wealth you have not got much power. The only way in which the ordinary citizen can offset the power of wealth is by some kind of participatory action. There is no one in this country who has had more experience of this than the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and myself for that matter, and no one has counselled peaceful action, effective action, more than we have. We on this side of the House know far more about what democracy is and we know far more the harm that violence does- the violence that the people opposite have stood for. We know far more the harm that violence does than do honourable members opposite and how important it is that the ordinary citizen, when he is acting in the government of himself and his own country, his own nation and amongst his own people, should not participate in violence. I had the honour to be at the head of a movement of 100 000 people in the city of Melbourne and we proved that when the people act they act peacefully. Violence is an action of government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-I ask a question of the Treasurer. Is it correct as reported by apparently expert analysts that the main purpose of the policy of the Government is to force down real wages so that the economic recovery that the Government wants can take place? If so, by how much does the Treasurer think real wages will be forced down during the course of the next 12 months? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does the Australian Government intend to protest to Indonesia and to the United Nations at the obvious and planned failure of the Government of Indonesia to be associated with any act of self determination for the people of East Timor, and against what in fact is the blatant denial of this right to the people of East Timor? 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question about unemployment. He will know that funds for his Department have fallen from about $300m to $145m, for the provision of employment services from $144m to $lm and even for retraining by $10m. In view of those facts I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that in its obsession with the deficit - 
-I ask the Treasurer In view of the statements that have been made about devaluation, both by the honourable member for Oxley and by  Sir Leslie  Melville, and believed by very many other influential people to be relevant, and in view of the fact that in answering 2 questions the Treasurer did not clearly state the Government's position about devaluation, will he now say whether or not the Government intends to devalue? If it does not, does it intend to seek to borrow $240m overseas? If the purpose of that is not to avoid devaluation, what would be the purpose of the loan? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question which is related to something he said on Thursday and which is reported on page 860 of  Hansard.  He said that the 25 per cent cut in tariffs across the board was wild and foolish and the cause of the export of 40 000 jobs from Australia overseas. If those are his views, when does he propose to bring about the restoration of that 25 per cent tariff cut so that he may reimport to Australia those 40 000 jobs? If he does not intend to do that, why not? 
-Even at this late hour in the evening with very few people listening nothing as significant as the Budget should be discussed. without first pointing out some basic features of the economic society in which we live in Australia. It is essential to know these basic features if we are to know the limits of a budget and a budget policy. Tonight I want to speak about 2 words- 2 words which have hardly ever been heard in this Parliament. They are hegemony and alienation. It is obvious to everyone that our interests as individuals are not the same. What will benefit one will often harm another. But the main division is not a division between individuals; it is a class division. This is a class society. One class owns the production system- the owning class. They own the mines, factories, banks, stores, newspapers, radio and television companies and so on. And by means of ownership they control the system as a whole. As few as 2000 people- all men and all over 50- control about two-thirds of the production system in Australia. 
In every society so far in history, including the ones called socialist, there has been a ruling class. The ruling class in each and every society is the class which controls the system of production. Control must be the starting point in all thought about the society in which we live. In only a few societies do the ruling class have to rule by naked or direct power. No ruling class really wants to rule by naked or direct power. It is the purpose of all ruling classes to create a hegemony, which is a profound cultural supremacy or a set of ruling ideas. It is by means of the hegemony that rule is exercised. The ruling ideas of any society are the ideas of the ruling class. 
Almost everyone in a society holds or shares, more or less, the hegemonic ideas of that society. Most people are ruled by the ruling ideas. Few people reject the ruling ideas, although most people feel at one time or another that something is wrong. Their problem is that they feel there is nothing they can do about it, and this feeling of powerlessness is a result of the power of the hegemony. The degree of rejection of the hegemony is related to the success of the ruling class in operating the system of production in line with hegemonic values. A serious breakdown in the operation of the system of productionnowadays, when it ceases to maintain jobs or turn out money- would also mean a breakdown, for a time, in the power of the hegemony, but this is more likely to be turned against the government, whatever kind of government it is, and not against those who control the system of production. This is because part of the mystification of the hegemony, or ruling ideas, is that it is the government that is responsible for the system of production. Few are aware that it is not government but capitalists who really control the system of production. 
Unions may organise effectively and push up wages and salaries and thereby exercise some power, but if those wages and salaries rise too much or too fast the result will be a recession and unemployment, and workers will become unwilling to support the unions for increases in wages as they did before. We should seek to understand the hegemony as a governing or ruling device. Capitalist hegemony, beginning with the breakdown of feudalism, has taken over 300 years to establish and develop and it may have reached its peak in the last 10 or 15 years. Capitalist hegemony is acquisitive, hedonistic and materialistic, and it is directed especially to the accumulation of capital. It is expressed generally in the pursuit of money. It is perhaps the only social hegemony in the history of mankind in which money and not human or social relations has come to dominate a society. Workers, usually as much as capitalists, share this hegemony. It can be no surprise that it is the main aim of workers, and of unions, to get more money in higher wages and salaries just as it is the aim of capitalists to get more money in profits and in other ways. In addition, capitalists have one other aim- this is basic for them- and that is to retain at all costs the control they have of the system of production so that they can exercise basic power, as well as make money, out of the exercise of that power. 
Unless workers and unions go behind merely more money as an aim, they remain fully within the capitalist hegemony. Unless they develop aims that extend to individual unity of character, to co-operative relations with other workers and with nature, as well as to control and responsibility in the operation of the system of production, or to that aim that is usually called socialism, workers remain firmly within the capitalist hegemony and within power of the capitalist ruling class. If workers remain subject to the power of the capitalist ruling class they have to remain limited to some temporary change in the distribution of income and to mild reforms of other kinds. But even more significant than this, for the ruled or dependent class in a class society, the application of the hegemony results in their alienation as a class and as persons within that class. 
Alienation is the isolation or estrangement of individual persons from themselves as persons, from others and from nature. So many people hardly ever speak to others around them, and feel strange, or threatened by others, even in their own street. They do not really know their own needs, or if they do they are worried about revealing them, let alone gratifying them. Most people are not only alienated or separated from their work, from control of their work and from the product of their work, but they are equally as much alienated or separted from their own needs and from other people. The most general result of alienation is mutual loss of contact between people, the replacement of natural human relationships by artificial, formalistic, meaningless contacts like those which most of us have with each other in this Parliament and with most other people. People feel powerless in society. 
They may become individually frustrated, lacking in personal esteem or confidence or for the same reasons they may become aggressive and seek to dominate others. 
Much of the apathy and lack of responsibility on the one hand, or the violence and often senseless revolt on the other hand, that exists and grows and which is so much complained about by conservatives and power holders is a result, and an inevitable result, of alienation. It is difficult or impossible to establish solidarity or unity in the working class when it is alienated in this way. Workers and even their leaders tend to go for what they can get in money and status, not in their own culture but in the culture of the ruling class. Alienated competition undermines the unity of members of the working class both as individual persons and with others. The most significant result of alienation is that the human needs of the individual for warm human relations and co-operation are repressed and often they are then perverted into their opposites. The individual person, unable to satisfy these natural needs, takes up needs or wants that are artificial and are created for him by others. These artificial needs are created by the system in which he lives. 
No person is free. We are all the target of the hegemony and we all live in varying degrees of alienation- -invidual isolation and loneliness, powerlessness and frustration- leading either to submissiveness and feelings of inferiority or to aggressiveness and dominance. It is becoming increasingly recognised by the work of leading psychologists everywhere that these are the most general and vital problems of society today. They cannot be put right by more money or by the pursuit of money. In fact, they will become worse as a result of the pursuit of money. When this background view of society is applied to a matter like the Budget, it suggests that the Budgets of today do not give the people much scope or range of choice. What is given with one hand is often taken away with the other. With each class mainly motivated by money, the class division of the national income is the main feature of the Budget and of associated banking and wage policy. This is because the social economic system is not a unity. It is a contradiction and it is a hedonistic contradiction. The Australian Labor Party, representing the workers in a general way, seeks to gain more money in wages and salaries for employees and for similar people who receive money from the Budget in the form of benefits. The Liberal Party and National Country Party seek to restrain or freeze wages and salaries and Budget money benefits for workers and similar people. 
During 1974-75 while Labor was the government, income of wage and salary earners as a class rose by about 5 per cent and income of companies and unincorporated businesses fell by about 5 per cent. Income of farmers fell also, but mainly for different reasons. This 5 per cent shift in income was almost alone the result of the highest rates of increase in wages and salaries that have taken place in Australia. More accurately, it was the result of the part of that increase that could not be passed on in the form of price increases or be taken up in increased productivity. Motivated by preceding record rates of increase in costs of living, mainly because of preceding increases in food prices- primarily in meat prices- and because of export demands, these increases in wages and salaries in 1974-75 were only indirectly the result of a Labor government being in office. 
A Labor government certainly creates a more favourable climate for wage and salary increases. After 23 years of tough anti-Labor rule, many people in Australia felt freer after the election of a Labor government in 1972. They felt more confidence with a Labor government in office. Workers in government departments, apparently under the control of the Labor Governmentalthough the Public Service Board certainly was not- gained high and record increases in salaries. But powerful capitalist companies and employers' organisations granted equally high and record increases in wages and salaries also. They did so because they had little choice. But given the limitation that there was in passing on these increases in the form of prices and productivity, a change in the distribution of income of about 5 per cent was the result. This was too much for the class system to take and so a stop had to be put to it by getting rid of the Labor Government. After 23 years of negative government public policy the Labor Government was committed to a constructive program of public policy and tried to maintain or increase public expenditure through the Budgets. If the Labor Government of 1974-76 had not done that, the question at least has to be asked: What otherwise would have happened to national income, national expenditure and the level of employment? 
In the first year, 1974, there had already been a savage cut of over 20 per cent by the trading banks in the rate of increase in the money supply in what came to be known as the credit squeeze. From June to November 1974 the credit squeeze caused a drying up of working capital. Money was drawn off at the same time to pay business taxes and together these factors became the main cause of the jump in unemployment near the end of 1974. At the same time there was a fall in gross national capital expenditure from $5, 105m in 1 973- 74 to $4,788m in 1 974-75 and a rise of only $3 6m in gross national expenditure in that year. That was a rise of only $36m in a total figure of $32, 475m. What rise in national expenditure in 1974- 75 could have been seen to be enough to maintain national income and employment? Would it have been less than $36m in 1974-75? The question has to be asked: If there had not been an increase in Government expenditure in 1 974-75 when there was a fall in gross fixed capital expenditure of $393m and an increase of only $3 6m in a total national expenditure, what would have happened to national income and to national expenditure upon which income and employment depend? And what would have happened to employment? If economists and newspaper writers who wanted a Budget surplus of over $ 1,000m in 1974-75 had had their way, what would have happened to unemployment? The unemployment rate may have been nearer to one million people than to 300 000 people and national income would have been down several thousands of millions of dollars instead of being a mere $88m, as was the case that year. 
At any rate, it was the class struggle for income that dominated the Budget and Budget policy in 1974-75. The Labor Government may finally have lost the political aspect of that struggle but the people of Australia were protected economically from much of that loss. The class struggle for income, of course, continues to dominate the Budget policy of today, as it did that year, but in the opposite direction. The Government has said, and no doubt believes it, that its first and dominating aim is to stop inflation. But concentration upon inflation provides the Government with a cover or an excuse to follows its basic class objective. Concentration upon inflation is mystification and it is always the purpose of the hegemony to mystify what is being done. In fact, the basic class objective of the Government is to restrain or freeze wages, to freeze the benefits of those who receive income from the Budget and, at the same time, to increase the profits of companies and especially the multi-national corporations. Redistribution of income from the poorer to the richer is the basic aim of this Government. The Budget and Budget policy does not put the people first; it puts big business first. 
Control of inflation by cutting income of most of the people in Australia and by increasing the profits of big business, much of it outside Australia, is not the only or even the best way to deal with inflation. A cure for inflation in the existing class structure, in which not much can be done anyway about the rise and fall of inflation, depends as much upon increasing production as it depends on cutting wages and government expenditure. And increased production depends on increased expenditure which can come only from increased wages, government expenditure and from reductions of government taxes and charges or upon all three. Goods will not be produced unless they can be sold and they will not be sold unless expenditure is high enough to ensure that they are sold. The policy of the Government, and it is a policy of big business- it is a class policy- actually depends upon an increase in production: But with that policy, increased production can be the result only of a cut in wages, which will come about in any case, and a cut in government expenditure. This is a policy of sacrifice by people who cannot afford sacrifice. It is a policy of benefit for those who do not need more money. 
One of the things that emerges from the contemporary economy is that full employment as it has been known will never again recur in Australia in the economic system. Full employment has gone for ever. The rise in unemployment in recent years from 1 per cent to about 6 per cent is only partly the result of inflation and excessive comparative international costs. It is partly the result of structural changes in the economy here in Australia, as in most other countries irrespective of their inflation. 
In Australia 20 years ago about 15 per cent of the people were employed in primary industry. In 1975 that percentage was  Vh.  But even more significantly in Australia 20 years ago, about 28 per cent of the people were employed in manufacturing. In 1975 only 22 per cent were employed in manufacturing. The fall in the percentage of people employed in primary industry for many years was taken up by an increase in the proportion employed in manufacturing. But that has come to an end. Now, and for 20 years, they have both fallen- a fall of over 13 per cent in 20 years- and they will continue to fall. Where have those people gone? Some have gone into government employment; some into services; but many have gone into unemployment, especially the younger people. Of the unemployed now, over 40 per cent are under 20 years of age. Every crisis sends more people into unemployment. Unless there is a significant change in policy and its application, they will stay in unemployment. 
Australia is moving into the post-industrial society. Unless people are situated where they choose to be, including in unemployment, and unless more people are employed in such a way that their personal integrity can be increased and their social and human relation with others can be vastly improved, then stopping inflation and restoring full employment will not improve things. Alienation, whatever the level of employment, is now the most serious social problem. It is now no longer the level of unemployment that counts, it is the nature of employment. It is not economic growth that counts; it is human growth that counts and the creative work that will make that possible for more and more people. It is time we went beyond the old aims of money and jobs. Life depends on more than that. 
-Has the Acting Treasurer seen reports last week that company profits as measured are rising at about twice the rate of inflation, and that some are rising considerably in excess of that? Is he satisfied with this inflationary increase in the rate of company profits? Does he consider they are sufficient or does he consider that the increase in company profits has to be greater still in the future? 
I preface a question to the Prime Minister by saying that the people of Australia now know that the Government recognises the realities of the Indonesian takeover by force of East Timor. I ask the Prime Minister: Does this mean that the Government will do nothing to further resist that takeover? Does he agree that this destroys and repudiates the bases of policies stated yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Will he say what he said or what he did in Indonesia which would have prevented this unfortunate result, especially in relation to the self-determination of the people of East Timor? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that a decision has been made not to print the current Boyer lectures? If this is so, how many years is it since the Boyer lectures were not published? Is this a further example of an attempt to apply censorship to and suppression of this series of Boyer lectures? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Was the Government prepared last week to consider economic growth measure as well as the continued restrictions which it eventually adopted? Does he agree that it now appears probable that inflation will not fall at best by more than two or three points in a year, unemployment will increase and, above all, real production will fall and potential production by very much more? Does he agree now that inflation cannot be reduced unless production increases and that it is now time to adopt a growth policy to increase effective demand rather than the restrictionist one imposed on the Government by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question about the Newport power station. In answer in a question on this subject recently he took a position in support of the Victorian Government. He would be aware that the place where this power station is proposed to be built is one of the most industrially polluted areas in Victoria, if not in Australia. It is polluted with industrial smoke, chemicals and noxious trades. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question. 
-It is time the honourable member adopted an alternative life. He has had enough of the present one. The Prime Minister will know that I am not one of those people who believe that the Government can make a significant difference to the state of the economy. As I have said many times from that side of the table, it depends on the economic system and the Government is secondary to that I ask the Prime Minister: Will he ensure in the next few weeks when Parliament is not sitting that there is nothing the Government can do that is not done to prevent any need being satisfied, especially in relation to unemployment and loss of income in the country? Will he ensure that no puritanical economic policy, or any other kind of policy, prevents the satisfaction of genuine need, as far as the Government can achieve that? 
-I ask the Minster for Defence: Is it a fact that the Government is preparing to re-introduce compulsory military service, both for men and for women? Have some of the necessary papers already been printed? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question about the Banaban people. Does he not agree that the people from Ocean Island have been most cruelly and unjustly treated over a long period, beginning with their exclusion from their island over 40 years ago, the fact that most of their superphosphate rock has been taken without any benefit to them and, finally, by the dismissal of their appeal for compensation in a British court? If he agrees that they have been cruelly and unjustly treated, can he say whether any suggestions or proposals have been put forward by the British Government or the New Zealand Government to the Australian Government to assist in compensation? Whether such submissions have been made, can be assure the House that the Australian Government will do everything in its power to ensure that these people are fairly treated? 
I should think in 1977 that it would be agreed that the most important problem in Australia is inflation and its consequences. But of course inflation is the result of something, more than it is a cause. 
Wherever inflation has occurred no government can claim much success in dealing with it- the Fraser Government no more than any other. Inflation is a result not only of a government but of the system as a whole. Nowhere that it has occurred has the system had any more success than governments in dealing with inflation. One of the main reasons for this is that most problems are treated today as though they are no more than economic problems, as though they can be solved by economic methods alone. But most problems are not merely economic problems; they are essentially social and psychological. 
Let me take inflation as an example. Inflation appears to be an economic problem because it is certainly the result of acquisitiveness, the result of the dominance of economics, the result of the endless worship of money. But for centuries humanity saw its nature and its problems as religious, spiritual and social. The advent of economic materialism changed all that. Now in this Parliament, as elsewhere in the community, we always see life as a problem of economics. One aims to get more money or for status, from which money is derived. Our present goals are opportunism in an acquisitive society. Inflation is the result of acquisitiveness and the pursuit of money. But acquisitiveness and the pursuit of money are not alone economic. They are critically social and psychological. 
It should be apparent by now that inflation cannot be dealt with by economic methods. Economic methods of dealing with inflation include the Budget deficit, the money supply, the exchange rate and wage restraint. Let us look at what happened to the deficit, the money supply, the exchange rate and wage restraint in recent years. Firstly I refer to the deficit. In 1974 the deficit was $292.4m. In 1975 it was $2,566.7m. In 1976 it was $3,585.4m and for the first 8 months of 1977 under the management of  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  the deficit is $5,532.2m. For strict comparison, let us take the 8 months to February each year. In 1974, in what I can call the Crean year, the deficit was $ 1,678.6m. In 1975 it was $2,769.4m. In 1976, in the Hayden year, it was $4,522.4m and in 1977, in the Lynch year it is $5, 532.2m. Is it not astonishing that the right honourable, as I think he is now, the Treasurer who has been demanding for years and years that the deficit should be cut and stating that a high deficit was the cause of inflation and that the Australian Labor Party Government had been responsible for inflation, should turn in a deficit for the first 8 months of 1977 of $5,532.2m- in other words, $ 1 ,000m higher than in the Hayden year. The deficit in the Hayden year was over $ 1,000m higher than the deficit the year before and the deficit for 1975 $ 1,000m higher than the 1974 deficit.  Mr Lynch  and  Mr Fraser  have found out that the economic method of trying to cut the deficit to deal with inflation just does not work. They cannot do it. I do not expect  Mr Lynch  or  Mr Fraser  ever to admit that, or to be guided by their discovery. 
Secondly, I look at the money supply. The Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  has never stopped shouting accusation at his predecessors of causing inflation by 'printing money', or 'turning on the printing presses' or borrowing too much. But what has happened about money? We can take the net change in treasury notes and borrowing from the Reserve Bank as a good indication of printing money'; turning on the 'printing presses' or borrowing too much. These are the figures for the increase in treasury bills and Reserve Bank borrowings: 
For the 12 months to 30 June 1973- treasury bills $ 1 64.6m; Reserve Bank nil. 
For the 12 months to 30 June 1974- treasury bills, minus $ 137.8m; Reserve Bank nil. 
For the 12 months to 30 June 1975- treasury bills $ 1 ,689. 1 ; Reserve Bank nil. 
For the 12 months to 30 June 1976- treasury bills, minus $ 1,6 19.6m; Reserve Bank $l,350m. 
But in the 8 months to February 1977 under  Mr Lynch  and  Mr Fraser  who are never going to turn on the printing presses, we find Treasury bills amounting to $2, 355. 5m and Reserve Bank borrowings of $ 1,200m. More money was issued in treasury Bills and borrowed from the Reserve Bank in the first 8 months of 1977 by the FraserLynch Government- $3, 555. 5m- than came from those sources in the whole of the 3 years before. Most of it- $ 1,446.3m- under a Labor Government. Well, here it is: as a measure of printing money- $3,555.5m spent in the past 8 months under a Fraser-Lynch Government against $ 1,446.3m of money in 3 years, mostly under Labor. How ridiculous it is to believe that controlling money can be a cure for inflation. The economy must have the money it needs and that money must come from somewhere. It has come from the printing presses far more under Lynch-Fraser in the sense that I have been measuring it than under the preceding Government in more than twice the time. 
Thirdly, I refer to the exchange rate. What are called devaluations of the Australian dollar have taken place several times. But it has never been claimed by anybody that they can do more than increase prices and, in fact, each of the devaluations has increased prices. So the 3 economic means that have been used to deal with inflation have failed. The only other economic means that seems to be available to deal with inflation is the one upon which the Fraser Government most relies- force down costs by forcing down wages. But the only way there seems to be to attempt this is for unemployment to increase so that workers will become afraid of losing their jobs and will then be afraid to ask for more money or to support union action for more money. But this is not an economic method. Fear is a social and psychological matter. Government policy designed to deal with inflation by unemployment and by keeping down wages is not just economic; it is social and psychological. It is based on fear. However economic and academic in origin in the Treasury and the Reserve Bank and among economists that policy may be, it will not be treated by the people as economic and academic; it will be treated as social and psychological. It will increase tensions and class divisions. It will divide the nation more and will sow bitterness and class hatred to be reaped in years to come. 
The main problems any nation has to solve are not merely economic problems; they are social and psychological problems. Yet governments and the system look only to the economists and men of money to form their policies to deal with them. People have real needs and they are not only for money and for getting on in an acquisitive society. They are also for friendship, cooperation and mutuality. They are for what has been called socialism, no matter how impossible to define that word may be. Inflation, like most other significant problems, can be solved only if friendship, mutuality and co-operation can become significant in the operation of the economic and social system. 
The main social and national problems that exists are the result of acquisitiveness, of aggressiveness, of lack of friendship and of lack of cooperation and mutuality. I know the answer to this only too well. All the realistic, practical men will say that this is idealism and that only a fool would take any notice. I think the answer lies in the results. The realists and the practical men are not doing too well in solving national and social problems, are they? The standing of national leaders is not very high and in the case of interjectors it is much lower. National output and income have risen rapidly. There are many more motor cars and television sets. But how valuable are some of the components of that national income and output? It is not the quantity of motor cars or television sets which shows how well national problems are being solved. National problems are not solved in the need for television sets and motor cars; they lie somewhere else entirely. It has been found that nearly 10 per cent of adult people are psychiatrically disturbed. Severe alcohol addiction affects 5 per cent of the people while a much higher percentage is harmfully affected by alcohol. Fifty four per cent of crime is committed by the 13 to 22 years age group. Emotional disturbances affect 12 per cent of children, and for every student who enters a university in New South Wales where a survey was made, an equal number will enter mental hospitals or undergo psychiatric treatment. An equal number will spend some, and in most cases, most of their lives in gaol. Heart disorders, accepted as being strongly associated with emotional factors, cause one in three deaths. Even cancer is coming to be seen as related to stress. There will be a continuing increase in the proportion of children who are alienated and neglected and who become aggressive and criminal as a result. There will be a continuing increase in the number of people over 65 years of age and for them isolation, loneliness and uselessness will increase. More than 10 per cent of older people have been found to be moderately or severely disturbed. These percentages have probably doubled in the past 20 years and will double at a much faster rate. A leading American psychologist, Rollo May, has concluded about America: 
There is plenty of evidence that the sense of isolation, the alienation of one 's self from the world is suffered not only by people in pathological conditions but by countless 'normal' people as well in our own day. 
Those who think that this is true only for America must know that Australia is going exactly the same way as America, but is just a little behind. Many people know or sense that their real problems are not economic and can not be put right by more money, motor cars or television sets. They know that the problems are of personal meaning and worth and of social relations with other people. 
Let us take violence and the results of violence. Violence in many forms, extending down to what is called licence, permissiveness or a 'just don't care attitude', is a significant and growing part of every community. It haunts every suburb of Sydney and Melbourne as well as most other cities. Violence, like every other form of behaviour, is just not accidental and not able to be understood. Violence is a result of a person's character structure. Character structure is the result of what happens to children, adolescents and adults. The causes of violence of a criminal and of many national leaders are well established in their character structures by the time they reach adolescence. If we are to prevent the establishment of violence in the character structures of individuals we will need to change the ways in which those individuals who suffer from it are brought up and educated. 
The evidence shows that violence and other anti-social behaviour are the result of sensory deprivation, of mistreatment and of repression. It has been shown that violence and other forms of anti-social behaviour do not occur when children are born, brought up and educated in a friendly, supportive atmosphere in which their natural needs can be satisfied in a balanced and an easy manner. Many years ago the Labor movement began from this way of looking at things. From it came certain distinctive values. They were the values of equality, co-operation and mateship, as it was called in Australia. They were the values that lay in the belief that the essential thing was something within each human person, was therefore in everyone irrespective of colour, creed or sex, and was not in some nation, party, church, leader or gods. That was the value of universal equality. Belief in equality lay in the conviction that people are not what they are born. The very best and the very worst character can be given to man, as Robert Owen said 140 years ago, by the way he lives, by the conditions of his life. These values, often shared by other people- there is hardly any religion or philosophy in which most of them are not found- have been diminished or destroyed by the economic industrial society of the last 150 years. 
It is said that one cannot win elections with these values; one cannot get on in a party, business, union or newspaper if one has these values. People would think one was a fool if one held these values, let alone tried to practise them. These values have declined because the economic system prevails. It is a system of economic growth, of the pursuit of money and of the measure of everything in money. It is also a system of pollution, of violence, of excessive use of resources, of poverty and of threats to human survival. These are the ruling ideas of the system, and they cross the ideological curtain to a very striking degree. They are wherever industrialism is found. 
What are the chances of change? What are the chances of our seeing inflation not as an economic problem but as a social and psychological problem? What are our chances of escaping the acquisitive hegemony of the industrial system? First, I suppose the changes can be brought about by what is called advocacy or evangelism, if one likes, by people taking up the values of equality, co-operation, friendship and mutuality, by working for them and convincing others about them. That should certainly be done. In the Labor movement it is especially unfortunate that so many have given up those values in recent years. One cannot do much by advocacy or evangelism against the tide, as 2000 years of Christianity show how difficult it is to work against the tide. Those values are against the tide. They are against the tide of the industrial hegemony which all of us more or less adopt and practise. If it is true that men are the result of circumstances, of the conditions in which they live, there can be no change until circumstances and conditions change, however, effective advocacy might be. Change is significantly a result only of life experience, and only within that is it influenced by advocacy or evangelism. 
Change is taking place. Change is taking place because life experience is changing. Acquisitiveness, violence, permissiveness, pornography, corruption and cynicism are bad and are getting worse. People will reject them because they are bad. People will take up other values, other ways of life, other life styles. Because of this a new culture is emerging- what has been called the emerging person, a new and different person. 
Assuming that the values of community, friendship and mutuality are indigenous to the natural needs of the human being- I believe they aresociety will change. New values may be essential for the survival of humanity. They are certainly essential for its progress and happiness. The first requirement is to define them, the second is to fight for them, but, more importantly, the third is to know what determines human behaviour and social change so we can understand what we are trying to do and thereby be more effective in achieving it. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that there are reports, both in Australia and overseas, of up to one million cattle having been destroyed or died in Australia during recent droughts? If that is not an accurate figure will the right honourable gentleman give an indication of what he thinks the figure is? In view of that situation, in view of the requests from governments in Pakistan, Bangladesh and other parts of Asia for the provision of cattle from Australia, partly for breeding purposes, and in view of the shortage of funds provided for aid programs and other things, will he give consideration to the preparation of a plan to provide adequate finance for the provision of 10 000 or 20 000 cattle a year from Australia? I point out that that would be in the interests of Australian farmers as well as in the interests of the people in the countries to which the cattle would be going. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the fact that a 1974 survey of the unemployment benefit in Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries revealed that Australia had by far the lowest level of income support for the unemployed at only 23.4 per cent of the average income, compared with the United States benefit at 52.2 per cent and the German benefit at 64 per cent? Is he aware of any reason why those figures are not comparable and why they do not reveal a deplorable neglect of the unemployed in Australia? Will he assure the House that the Government will put to the Myers Committee a submission that there be no decrease in the unemployment benefit but that there be an increase to make the Australian benefit comparable with that of other countries? 
I second the amendment. The mining, export and processing of uranium raises the most vital question facing humanity. It is the survival of the human race. Normally in the case of uranium this question arises because of the dangers of radiation when uranium is used, the dangers of nuclear explosions and breakdowns caused deliberately or by accident when nuclear power is being produced, the dangers of radiation from nuclear waste, especially plutonium, which so far as present knowledge goes cannot ever be eliminated, and the fact that peaceful uses of uranium cannot be separated from the production of nuclear bombs. The mining and export of uranium from Australia will inevitably increase the number of nuclear bombs produced and the number of countries which will produce those bombs. 
Let me take each of these matters in turn. Each one alone presents a reason why in present circumstances uranium should not be mined, exported or processed. In the case of radiation from the normal processing of uranium, it is assumed that in setting radiation protection standards any exposure to radiation involves some risk of injury. There is no threshold dose. For many years that matter was subject to hot debate. The view that there was a threshold dose has now been rejected in theory and practice. In the meantime many thousands of people have contracted radiation disease. It is to the credit alone of those who oppose nuclear processing that the acceptance of a threshold dose now underlies radiation protection standards. But there is yet no reason to believe that protection standards can prevent radioactive contamination in some cases. Processing of uranium in the foreseeable future, no matter what the standard of protection, will involve some addition to background radiation and, if there is no threshold, it will involve people in radiation sickness in some significant numbers. 
The chances of explosion, breakdown or fault in a plant or in transportation by accident or design will increase in proportion to the number of reactors, and if reactors needed to fulfil projected electricity demand in the next 20 years are built, then trains and trucks loaded with deadly radioactive materials will constantly travel across the United States, Europe, the Soviet Union and many other places. The chances of explosion by accident or design would be sufficiently great to make avoidance of accident unlikely. In these circumstances, it would be only a matter of time until an explosion or breakdown released deadly radioactivity and caused a disaster of great significance. 
In the case of Australia, it is easy for those who believe that as owners of industries, or as workers, they will benefit in money from the mining and export of uranium to say, in effect: 'It won't be processed here; there's no immediate risk for us. These risks will be exported with the uranium'. This is the ultimate immorality. There is nothing Australia can do to reduce the risk of explosion or pollution in other countries, in a nuclear plant, or in transport of radioactive materials by accident or design, but there is something Australia can do to share the costs of radioactive contamination from plutonium wastes- that is to take back the radioactive wastes of the processing of Australian uranium and try to store them away safely for the next 25 000 years. Such a proposal may yet be put to Australia and it would at least test the integrity of those who are anxious to export both uranium and the risks of uranium, and bring the issues home to the public much more vividly. 
The possibility of explosion by accident or design has to be seen in the intricate network that industrial society has become. The people are separated from one another in every human sense, but they are locked together by technology and economics. Everyone depends on someone else for his life- upon the road engineer, the assembly Une worker, the airline pilot, the scientist in the laboratory and many others. We know what can happen when 2 jumbo jets collide. But a nuclear reactor is a far greater potential threat than 2 jumbo jets. One unnoticed slip or one unsure act and dozens or hundreds of people are dead. That will become thousands if nuclear reactors proliferate in present circumstances. 
The chances of serious accidents will increase. Lives will depend on technologies in reactors and in transport which are not now safe, and lives will depend on fallible performances. With low risk technology this maybe acceptable. With high risk technology it is not. Not only is high risk technology now in increasing use, but it has concentrated vast numbers of people in dense populations. The increasing oneness of mankind has been recognised in words, but in practice all that has happened is that technology and economics have concentrated people together in areas of increasing violence and risk. Technology and economics produce violence as significantly as they produce material goods. This is the strongest reason of all why there should be a reassessment of the race into nuclear technology. 
The last of the 4 points I have mentioned is the impossibility of separating peaceful uses of uranium from the proliferation and production of nuclear bombs. Today more than enough nuclear bombs exist to destroy mankind many times over. They have been used in war twice only, and never by those called our enemies. They will be used again. The world has treated nuclear bombs more as a deterrent than as a weapon since 1945. But that is because they have been possessed by nations in some kind of stable relationship with each other. Proliferation of nuclear bombs amongst many nations will not be likely to have that result. It is highly probably that the present rate of development of nuclear power will proliferate the possession of nuclear bombs, resulting in an unstable relationship between nations. It is highly probable that these bombs will be used, and not alone by nations, but by smaller groups of people. The essence of the case for the development of nuclear power industry lies in the argument that human happiness depends on a constantly or rapidly rising consumption of material goods. It does not. Historical evidence shows that in the competitive, acquisitive society, or probably in any society, a rising consumption of material goods increases human happiness up to a point, but not beyond it. Historical evidence shows that rising consumption of material goods beyond a point increases alienation, anxiety, violence and, above all, powerlessness for the majority of the people. Erlich has put it vividly:   . . beyond a certain per capita energy level, the political system and cultural life of any society decay. 
It is unlikely that the non-competitive, perhaps less acquisitive, but disciplined societies of the Soviet Union and the European state economies will any more achieve increasing human happiness from increasing consumption of material goods. At any rate, to believe that uranium should be mined, exported and processed because it will give a higher level of happiness from a high level of consumption of material goods is a delusion, and it is a delusion which sooner or later will have terrible consequences. 
Yet another essential feature of the case for the development of a nuclear power industry is that shortage of oil, coal and other energy sources demands that nuclear energy must be used. Here the choice is that more and more energy must be continuously used, or less. Those who choose more are, they say, realists; they are wrong. The use of more and more nonrenewable energy only postpones the day when the decision to use less must be made. The world's population is now almost 4000 million and is increasing at a rate of about 2 per cent a year. If this rate continues the world's population will double every 35 years. World industrial output has been increasing at the rate of 7 per cent each year- less in the past 3 years- but at a rate that doubles almost every 10 years. 
Given continuation of these rates for one lifetime only, four times as many people- 16,000 million- will be producing and consuming 128 times as much output as at present. This is impossible. And this is the result in many cases in only one lifetime. It is impossible even if a large pan of the world's energy supply comes from renewable sources like sun and water; and perhaps nuclear fusion can be included in that. It is impossible because the level of demand on resources other than energy will have exhausted many of them by then. A few estimates show how likely that is. According to Erlich, if we assume 5 times the known resources of each mineral, and consumption even at low constant rates of increase, the year of depletion of each key mineral is: aluminium, 48 years from now; copper, 41 years from now; iron, 66 years from now; lead, 51 years from now; manganese, 87 years from now; mercury, 34 years from now; nickel, 89 years from now; tungsten, 65 years from now; zinc, 43 years from now; petroleum, 43 years from now; natural gas, 42 years from now. 
It is not a simple matter of these resources suddenly running out. What will happen is that the price of them will rise to higher and higher levels until only the rich nations and people can use them. The argument that rising consumption standards and nuclear power are all necessary for the poor, especially for the poor in the developing countries, is not a valid one. Rapidly rising use of energy, especially nuclear energy, will be concentrated in the hands of those who are rich and powerful already. They will grow richer and far less will seep down to the poor, both between the rich and poor nations and within each nation. As the use of more and more energy uses up more and more aluminium, copper, iron, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel, tungsten, zinc and other minerals the prices of those minerals will rise, no matter what the advances of technology and productivity may be. To introduce nuclear energy is going to accentuate all this and exhaust those minerals so much earlier. What will happen can be seen by what happened in the case of the OPEC rise in the price of petroleum. This did not harm the worlds huge petroleum companies, or the ruling classes in the OPEC countries, or in the developed countries. They all became richer because of the rise in the price of petroleum. 
Now who was it who was not better off? Those who lost from the rise in the price of petroleum were firstly, the developing countries. And their loss was one of thousands of millions of dollars; secondly the poorer people in the developed countries upon whom fell the impact of inflation. Inflation never hits the non-poor. They are powerful enough to pass on the costs. Inflation hits those who are not powerful enough to pass on its costs. The whole process of new and excessive use of energy, especially nuclear energy, will increase the rate of diminution or exhaustion of the world's basic minerals. It will increase the cost of them and impose the burden of that process upon the poorer people of the world. It will increase inequalities of power, wealth and income. 
Not only will the process of obsessive economic growth not increase human happiness in the future for poorer mankind as well as richer, but it involves a process of conflict which humanity shows, as yet, no ability to be able to handle. What will happen if the increasing scarcity of basic minerals, and probably energy, actually takes place? It will result not only in a rise in the cost of those minerals and of energy and in continuing inflation, but it will also result in conflict. It is unlikely that excessive consumption of resources can go far without conflict between nations, and within nations, because of the ever tightening straight jacket of scarce resources. 
I see no way in which the world can handle scarcity better in the next SO years than it has handled growth in the past 60 years and it has experienced two world wars and many others in that time. Over 100 million people have died of man made violence in the past 60 years, and many more of starvation and disease. This has happened in the years of growth. What may happen in the years of increasing scarcity? 
For some, or many people, these are unnecessary warnings. They are the prophecy of doom. But they are not. They are the statement of a challenge- the challenge fully to revise what is involved in mankind's insatiable consumption of natural resources and its alienation from nature and from itself. It is a challenge to try to devise better ways and better values, not alone because of the threat of survival which may be there, but because those ways and those values are what humanity should aspire to in any case. We should repond to the magic of free life far more than to threats to human survival. But we should respond. Of that there can be no doubt. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that in his Department there is a section in which documents and papers about East Timor and Indonesia are kept under triple or high security because they are highly embarrassing to Indonesia? I further ask: Are there reports that the East Timor independence movement is still strong and that it will take Indonesia a very long time to subdue itthat is, to destroy that capacity of East Timor for national self-determination? 
-Can the Treasurer simply say what is the estimate of the percentages of unemployment, inflation and rise or fall in national product in, say, the 12 months from now upon which the Government is basing its policies and what is the estimate of excess capacity in industry that would involve? 
-Les Haylen and I served in this House together for about 10 years. I was very fond of Les Haylen. When he was defeated I missed him very much. Now that he is no longer alive I miss him too. I feel very much for Sylvia, Wayne and Ron in the loss that I know they have suffered. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen an article in the Community Health Bulletin No. 5 by  Dr Kenneth  Mitchell in which  Dr Mitchell  suggested the formation of centres for development and training, with research facilities, to identify community needs and plan and develop the implementation of preventive psycho-educational programs? Is the Minister favourable to this development, and can he say whether it is likely that the formation of the kinds of centres suggested by  Dr Mitchell  will take place soon? 
I think that the average Australian whose morals are in his hip pocket has an excellent spokesman in the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  Uranium is the basic starting point of politics in Australia. It is the main difference in politics between the Government and the Opposition and in any radical sense it is the only difference that there is. It is the test of every social question, as was the war in Vietnam 15 years ago. But it is a more comprehensive and penetrating test than even the war in Vietnam. 
The war in Vietnam seriously called in to question the whole of that society which was capable of waging it. Uranium does that in an even deeper and more comprehensive way. 
The threats of uranium and its uses demand a replacement of the whole materialist, mechanical, scientific, consuming society and its contradictory and inhuman values. The mining and export of uranium means inevitably the proliferation of thermo-nuclear bombs. The proliferation of thermo-nuclear bombs means inevitably the use of those bombs. The use of those bombs means inevitably the destruction of all or a considerable part of humanity. Those who accept the mining and export of uranium- the whole process of it- had better face up to that point to begin with. Acceptance of the process of uranium and of thermo-nuclear bombs, which are an inevitable part of it, is the ultimate insanity of human history. 
The mining and export of uranium involves a process which cannot safely be coupled to the potential for human violence that actually exists m the world today. The statistics of human violence, even in the least violent countriesAustralia is one of them- are increasing at an appalling rate. The statistics of violent crime has doubled in about 10 years. The statistics of the consumption of violent drugs, especially alcohol, have doubled in about 10 years. There is very little opposition to the violent drugs; it is the nonviolent drugs to which there is opposition. The statistics of violence in road accidents have doubled in ten years. For the number of younger people who enter universities in Australia, a similar number each year enter psychiatric hospitals or undergo psychiatric treatment, and another similar number enter gaols where they spend most or all of their lives. No society that produces these statistics of violence can be trusted with the most violent force of alluranium and its products. 
The mining and export of uranium involves a process which threatens the destruction of all forms of life on this planet. Why do I say that? I say that because there is an inevitable link between the disintegration of the finest particle of matter, the nucleus, and the disintegration of the finest particle of life, the molecule. The disintegration of the molecular structure, or pressure upon it, involves cancer and perhaps mutations. There is no safe level below which we can be sure that cancer and mutations do not result from the nuclear process. They have resulted already in tens of thousands of cases in the contempory world. 
In every country, including Australia. 
-People who die from cancer. We do not know what causes it. The nuclear process is involved in that, wherever people have been in close proximity to it, and cannot possibly be avoided. There is no threshold below which there is a safe level. No society which possesses basic values like those of the scientific, industrial, materialist society- this is the radical content of the difference between the Government and the Opposition, and I do not think the Opposition fully realises it- can be trusted with this power. 
The existence of the threats of uranium demands a rejection of its use. It demands much more than that. The existence of the threats of uranium demands a new society. It involves a radical change in the basic values of those societies which have produced uranium and made it into a threat to human survival. These basic values are mechanical materialism, objectified non-human science, and religions whose supreme or sacred value is externalised above and outside human life. Materialism produces acquisitive, self-centred people and the false belief that more money means more happiness. It produces, using the expression used by the honourable member for North Sydney, a society in which morals are in the hip pocket. The belief that economic growth is essential for social progress and must inevitably produce it, which is as central to Marxism as it is to capitalism, is false and has been proved to be false. 
Materialism is idolatry and is shared by the honourable member with all his wealth. It is the worship of things instead of life. Human happiness and social progress depend not upon economic growth and more money within industrial production and social relations but upon a change in industrial production and social relations. Human progress does not depend upon more economic growth and more money within the existing set of social relations; it depends upon a change in those social relations. Objectified non-human mechanical science is the science which believes that the discovery of truth depends upon the exclusion of human feelings, that truth is not the result of feelings of human experience but of some logical and mathematical process from which human feeling is excluded. This is the science that produced concentration camps, gas ovens and human experiments. It is the science that produced psychiatric gaols for political prisoners. It is the science that produced napalm and electronic warfare in Vietnam. It is the science which in the decontamination chambers and steel claws of nuclear power plants has finally dehumanised industry. It is the science that will eventually justify the use of thermo-nuclear bombs. 
An essential part of the basic values of these societies which have produced uranium and the threat of it consists of religions whose supreme and sacred value is externalised above and outside human life. When the supreme or sacred value of a society does become external to human life it is easy to treat human life as inferior and to destroy it. If one 's religion saw the sacred or supreme value to be in human life how could one tolerate the extinction of millions of people in gas ovens? How could one tolerate the acceptance of thermo-nuclear bombs as a legitimate means of defence? No, the existence of uranium demands not only its rejection as a source of energy but also a replacement of the basic values of the acquisitive violent, predatory society which has produced it and in which we are trying to live. It demands a new society. It demands those values which alone can produce a new society and that new society must come. Perhaps it will be within a generation or so but come it must. This new society and these new values cannot be produced by acceptance of the old society and the old values. The new society and the new values cannot come from the old politics, the old industrial relations, the old doctors, the lawyers or engineers; nor from the old pursuit of money or the old pursuit of jobs and careers. The new society and the new values demand new people. They demand what some of us have always called socialism but the new society and the production of socialists demand a change in people. 
Can people change? The answer to that is yes. People are what their character structure makes them. Their character structure is the result of their own life experience. Their life experience is the result of the impact of external social pressures upon the natural needs of each individual person from the moment of birth or even conception. The result of this impact of social pressures upon the natural needs of the individual produces alienation in the individual. That alienation consists of acquisitiveness, of feelings of powerlessness and of worthlessness. Alienation consists of the desire to hurt or to dominate, just as it consists of an inability to resist those who seek to hurt or dominate. Alienation consists of the inability we as a society have to govern ourselves or to deal with vital issues such as uranium. We know we have that inability. Whatever are our feelings on this question and however strong so many feel about it, they know that we have an inability to deal with it. They know that we are not able effectively to govern ourselves. 
If we are to begin the process of changing people and of producing new people we must realise that it cannot be done by the pursuit of money or by economic growth. Whether one takes the capitalist view or the Marxist view, and the difference is very slight, both are committed to the belief the human happiness will result from economic growth. The capitalist within the system of capitalist production relations and the Marxist believe that those production relations operate as fetters upon the process of production and have to be burst asunder by revolutionary forces so that the productive forces within the system can expand so much more greatly. Both the capitalist and the Marxist see human happiness depending upon economic growth but our experience with economic growth- the pursuit of it, the rat race that it involves, the acquisitive alienated society which it produces- should have demonstrated that that is a myth. Human happiness does not result from this unlimited consuming economy, this unlimited race for economic growth. A certain material standard of living is necessary for any kind of progress but the psychological drives which produce the aberrations of an industrial system and the wealth of the honourable member who has been interjecting, and the belief that that kind of thing can go on forever are a mistake and produce little happiness for those involved. I imagine that they have not produced much happiness for the honourable member either. 
If we are to begin the process of changing people, of producing new people, first of all we have to understand how people become as they are. We need to understand what alienation is and how it comes about. Alienation is not economics. It is the key to peace and progress. In addition to that we need to develop new groups, new communities, new unions, new parties which consist of people who are able to be committed to one another in loyalty, honesty, responsibility and trust. In other words these groups have to be de-alienated. I do not think that any group of people, any community, any party, any union or any other body can contribute to a better society unless the people in it have been substantially de-alienated. They need to be able to act in a de-alienated manner here and now or there can be no social change, no social transformation, no socialism. Politics is the re lationship of alienated people. Mechanical industrialism is an alienated system. We cannot get rid of politics and mechanical industrialism until we get rid of alienation. This does not mean an end to technology but the use of technology in a prevailing cultural pattern of human values. 
Finally, I want to summarise a couple of aspects of the uranium question. The uranium economy if it continues with its present intensity will be the graveyard of democracy because the uranium economy is the ultimate centralisation of power in human society. Centralisation of power and democracy are completely incompatible. The uranium economy is already the police state in action. It is here where civil liberties will be most interfered with and where penalties will be greatest. The uranium economy is the ultimate in human greed for power and money. It is the ultimate dehumaniser of society. Uranium is the ultimate threat to human survival. It is the ultimate in human alienation. For all these reasons uranium and its implications present the most radical difference between the Opposition and the Government, as did the war in Vietnam and it should be remembered that it was the opposition position in relation to that war which finally prevailed and was recognised as the true position. That will be so in the case of uranium as well. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr E. G. Whitlam's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-I ask the Prime Minister or the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question. Would they be prepared to consider establishing what would be a new or radical approach to unemployment? It would not be similar to the dole, the Regional Employment Development scheme or a training scheme. It would involve the provision of a subsidy or assistance so that craft work could be performed in innovative ways in the cities, or foodstuffs grown in the country which would replace such products as hops in Tasmania or meat in certain parts of Australia, so that individuals able and competent to do this work could be encouraged to do it. Will the Prime Minister or the Minister consider the provision of a fund and the appointment of a committee of people, who are sympathetic and understand what is involved, to allocate that fund. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that in North America there is legislation protecting whales as endangered species and that whale oil exported from Australia was thereby prevented from being imported into North America labelled fish oil. Will he say whether in his view, these events embarrass Australia in international relations and will he discuss with his colleagues who are directly responsible for this matter ways of introducing legislation in Australia to protect whales as endangered species and at the same time to provide alternative employment for those few people in Albany in Western Australia who are employed in this industry? 
