Will the Minister for Shipping and Transport advise the House whether he is aware of the maritime accident off Thursday Island early today? 
I address a question to the Postmaster-General. Would the honourable gentleman indicate when the 14 television stations approved for the electorate of Kennedy are likely to be in operation? In view of the fact the decision to instal these stations was made many years after this amenity had been enjoyed by the more favoured city and coastal areas, will he now give the House an assurance that they will be constructed and commissioned with all urgency? Will he further assure the House that there will be no possibility of the introduction of colour television until such time as these remote areas receive at this late date this modest form of television? 
The first thing that struck me,  Mr Speaker,  when I saw the list of speakers in this debate was the line-up of talent on the Australian Labor Party side of the chamber. When discussing the line-up of speakers someone suggested during the suspension of the sitting for dinner that the only  speaker  on the Labor side who did nol have left wing tendencies was the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I am inclined to dispute that claim. I am inclined to sympathise deeply with the agony of decision which was his lot. You will remember that some years ago when a debate on Vietnam, foreign affairs or such matters arose, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and other honourable members who saw eye to eye with him were excluded from the list of speakers. It is obvious that this happened. It is revealed by reading Hansard. There is no question about it. Then came the Harradine affair - the first one - there is quite a distinction - and the Leader of the Opposition threw his future into the ballot box. I think 6 votes decided the leadership of the Labor Party at that time. The Leader of the Opposition, being a good general, decided there and then that he had better re-orient his views if he was to achieve the unachieveable and become Prime Minister of Australia. Then we saw a transformation. 
Then we saw in the ranks of the Opposition a unity which was almost unbelievable prior to some months ago. I am leading into the Vietnam Moratorium. If members of the Opposition think that I am going to by-pass the Moratorium then they are in for a bit of a shock. Then, in the ranks of the Labor Party, we saw what any party leader would dearly love to achieve - almost complete party unity. In the process the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and his very congenial and smiling friend, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  were relegated to the back benches. The dynamic  speaker  who just preceded me, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  and my Queensland associate, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  took their places on the front benches of the Opposition. Here again great unity was achieved. 
So much for the list of speakers. Referring now to Vietnam, I am just a simple country boy. I am not sophisticated. I have put some fairly simple questions about Vietnam but the answers never seem to be forthcoming. I do not want to go into detail about the great complexities of the Vietnam war because they have been covered time and time again. I want to ask a few simple questions,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I would like someone on this distinguished list of speakers for the Opposition who are to follow me in this debate to answer these questions: Does the Opposition believe that if the stand by the United States of America and Australia and their allies had not been taken, would there have been any aggressive intent at all aimed at Vietnam? Would there have been an occupation by Communists or North Vietnamese or Vietcong? If we do completely withdraw our foreign troops, as the Opposition speakers put it, would there be any danger at all that Vietnam would be occupied. If it were occupied would there be any greater threat to Australia? 
Perhaps members of the Opposition are in a safe position but my friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and I live in the north and we look across the waters almost into these countries of South East Asia. My next question is another fairly simple one. I ask: Have 2 countries, Cambodia and Laos disappeared off the face of the earth? These 2 countries are never mentioned these days. Are they ugly words? Are the troops that are marching down the Ho Chi Minh Trail on a walkathon or something? Or are they attacking South Vietnam, infiltrating it and occupying it? Has the domino theory been completely exploded? Nobody refers to it anymore. 
So much for the Vietnam part of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 1 want to refer to a grand deceit being perpetuated throughout Australia. I must indict my own government for allowing this deceit to be perpetrated and spread abroad. It is said that there is now a simple highly educated intelligentsia which is completely harmless and which has not been infiltrated by left wing ideas. Honourable members opposite may scoff but the point is that there has been a growing inclination to use this particular technique of infiltration. I will refer to an earlier time. I remember one of the most prominent Labor men that this nation will ever see, a great Queenslander, who told Queensland generally, in many an article that he wrote against Communist infiltration and influence on the Labor Party, that he stood four square against anything that was suggested from this sinister and foreign creed. He fought it. I refer to the great Labor man, Clarrie Fallon. He told us on one occasion that there would be a grand design and a grand deceit perpetrated by the Communist forces. It would be based on 3 specific things: The first would be control of the transport system of 
Australia. The scheme even went to an extreme degree and involved the airline pilots. Whether they know it or not I do not know. I do not know how they are influenced but they were to become part of this scheme. 
Then there is the poor old waterside worker. I have worked on the wharves and I think they are a greatly maligned group of people. Even though as a body they are swayed, perhaps, by inflammatory people, there are many fine people working on the wharves. I was once one of them. The second, and perhaps the most sinister onslaught, which would undermine our Western nations, would involve the use of mass media to completely subvert the morality of the Western nations. Let me explain the reasoning behind this. Where there is complete disregard for ordinary, decent moral standards there is a flabby sort of civilisation. History proves that this is so. Our young people have been led to believe that all these pornographic films and that sort of thing are part of a perfectly natural and acceptable way of life. But let us consider what is happening while this is going on. If someone takes one of these pornographic magazines to Soviet Russia or to Communist China just how far does that person get? In other words,  Mr DeputySpeaker,  while we are subject to these influences and have fallen for this great deceit, young people in Communist nations have remained virile and highly trained. The young people there are disciplined. They are proud of the fact that a great nationalism has emerged and that it is based on decent, virile, rural and moral principles. Lest you think that the character of the Labor Party has changed drastically just look at the smirks on the faces of honourable members opposite. 
Let me remind the House of the subjects dealt with by some of the newly elected honourable members opposite in their maiden and other speeches during the last few weeks. Perhaps the subjects they chose are an indication of the attitudes which they have brought into this Parliament. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  spoke about abortion. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  spoke about uncontrolled homosexuality and the free use of drugs. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  advocated the com plete removal of censorship. My good friend from Rockhampton, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  - he is not a new member - said in a recent speech that it is morally right to oppose any law considered unjust. In fact he said that just men have a duty to disobey an unjust law. 
There is a very real relationship between what I am saying and this Moratorium because many good solid Labor men throughout the length and breadth of my electorate are bewildered; they cannot understand this new Labor Party. They belong not to pseudo Labor but to old type Labor, grass roots Labor such as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  never knew. I am sure that he feels out of place like a goanna running up a Christmas tree. These old type Labor supporters must be protected from this grand deceit that has been perpetrated by the Leader of the Opposition and those who sit behind him - this new technocratic type of Labor Party. I repeat: There is a definite relationship between what I have said and the planned Moratorium. 
Let us examine one of the very ugly features of the Moratorium. With his Liberace sneer the Leader of the Opposition referred to the pathetic impotence - he may be an authority on the subject - of the Communist Party. Its apparent impotence is the culmination of a grand design. Why need it be potent when it has in this place these people opposite who quite innocently express in the national Parliament the Communist Party's views - the rotten sinister ideas of the Party that are completely un-Australian. Honourable members opposite sponsor those views. Whether they do so deliberately I cannot say. Throughout my campaign prior to the last elections I adopted the very sound policy of telling the truth. That policy was accepted by the very knowledgeable people of Mount Isa. If honourable members on this side of the House make the blue they made prior to the last election and fail to reveal the extent of Communist infiltration - if they fail to reveal the Communists for what they are - they will betray the people of Australia and deceive the decent Labor man. The Communists must be exposed for what they are. 
Last week we heard some honourable members opposite claim that they had come to Canberra to do a job but were not allowed to get on with it. One of them sounded like James Mason. My wife said, after listening to him: 'Doesn't he speak beautifully.' I said: 'He does. He is English.' The honourable member concerned claimed that he had been sent here to represent his constituents but that he was muzzled and not allowed to speak. I assume that he will be here for 3 years so he will have ample opportunity to speak. So far, according to him, he has not had such an opportunity. The 'Daily Mirror' - not the Sydney Telegraph' - recently interviewed 8 kids and sought their opinions on the actions of the Labor Party in this place last week. Those 8 kids were disgusted with the Labor Party's performance. All of this is related to the matter of violence. Last Wednesday night the Leader of the Opposition stood on the front bench after the sitting had been suspended and harangued his supporters. I thought a two-up game was in progress. I thought about getting into it. My colleagues and I also tried to have the volume increased on the microphones that were picking up the conversations of Labor supporters, so that we might hear more clearly what was going on. The Leader of the Opposition harangued pressmen, telling some that they should be there and others that they should not. We had the spectacle of my good friend the honourable member for Grayndler - we both kick with the right leg - being promoted to Prime Minister in a mock government. I believe he said 'On with the revolution'. The honourable member for Lalor who had assumed the Chair, adjourned the Parliament until 1975. 
One of the most sinister aspects of the Moratorium is its influence on the minds of the young. In an article headed 'Students to Learn Ways to Dodge National Service' the Melbourne 'Age' reported: 
Vietnam Moratorium campaigners will send literature into all Victorian high schools in the next month. . . . The Minister for Education, Mi Thompson, last night criticised the plan to take the campaign into the schools. He said: 'We believe that direct politics should be kept out of the schools. The children have enough problems of their own. The over involvement of children in politics overseas has brought chaos and disaster.' 
My goodness it has. Those who understand the reactions of youth can readily influence the minds of young people going through the no man's land of adolescence. It is at this time that they are most vulnerable. Believe me, it is no secret that this is a plan of international design. Why is it happening in every country? Why do people with strong left wing inclinations work so intimately with a handful of students? Do not get any wrong ideas: All a student has to do is pull some LSD out of his pocket or get a group around him and start talking about pornography or what he did last night and a television camera will appear in the flicker of an eyelid. But I know of a group of young people who painted the buildings of an orphanage and received no publicity for their efforts. I understand how this can happen. I was once a freelance journalist. Editors have to sell their newspapers. But this one-sided publicity gives the wrong impression and discourages the 90% of university students who are quite decent people. 
We will knock this Moratorium and all stupid demonstrations. I would support a demonstration tomorrow if it was a good one, but violence is completely foreign to this country. It is quite unacceptable to us. Every decent Australian will treat the Moratorium with the contempt it deserves. Do not fall for this business about peaceful demonstrations. Tonight on the television programme This Day Tonight' the honourable member for Lalor would not say what degree of violence he would tolerate. Good luck to him; he has always been honest. I will say that much for him. You know where you stand with him. As for the other man for all seasons, the Leader of the Opposition, with him you do not know where you are going. The sooner honourable members opposite put the honourable member for Lalor in control of the Labor Party and clear up all the uncertainty in its ranks the better. We will feel much better when this has been done. But he did say that he would not guarantee that there would be no violence. He would not even say what degree of violence he would tolerate. If I were a betting man I would take a fair shade of the odds that there will be violence and plenty of it on Moratorium Day. 
I think all honourable members are indebted to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  for a very colourful and interesting resume of his reaction to this controversial film. The subject with which I wish to deal for a few minutes is the drought which continues in the north and in fact in all parts of Queensland. An impression has been given that because cyclone Ada came sweeping down the Queensland coast and huge volumes of rain came pouring down over certain sections of the State the drought was over. This is an impression that is not shared by Queenslanders and most decisively not even considered by people who are associated with the drought areas. Unfortunately from the moment I was elected to this House I have represented nothing but critically drought affected areas. That is a very sweeping statement but it is quite correct. Some rain has fallen in north western Queensland. There has been some relief in my own home area of Cloncurry and Mount Isa, but even this has been very patchy. Apart from that there has been no real relief at all. Let it be perfectly clear that there has been no real relief at all. It was imagined that because quite plentiful rain had fallen in the central highlands the drought, at least in some parts of that area, was over. The farmers in that area who had had 2 successive complete crop failures planted again thinking that at last they would have a crop that would bring them some sort of return for their heartbreaking efforts. But again they were to meet nothing but complete disappointment because there was not sufficient moisture in the ground to bring their crops to a point where they could be harvested. So there was the third successive crop failure. 
This perhaps was tragedy enough in (hose particular areas. I am not getting dramatic or emotional. I am merely stressing the realities of a most serious situation existing in my own electorate and in many other parts of Queensland. This would have been bad enough but there is the additional burden of the depressing situation which exists in the wool industry. I want to be perfectly clear on this and to give a very emphatic statement as regards the general and almost unanimous feeling of the people associated with the wool industry. I am convinced - and I do not think anyone has attempted to convince me otherwise - that the fundamental difficulty associated with the wool industry at the moment is the price that is being paid for the commodity. 1 believe that this is due to an international arrangement between those who are concerned on a national and international basis with the buying of this product and it is high time that this matter was closely examined and exposed. 
There are many people much more learned than I within the industry who are working vigorously to produce an urgent solution to this problem. It is my belief that whatever formula is forthcoming will be quite abortive unless this fundamental illness in the industry - the price that is being paid to the producer for his product - is closely examined. When the price of wool per lb is 32c or 35c and at the secondary and tertiary levels record profits are being made there is something very, very wrong. I do not think that Australia alone can find a solution to the problem. The policy of this Government has been at all times to receive its guidance on wool from the industry itself and one begins to wonder whether this guidance is lacking somewhere along the line. It is high lime that someone was big enough, realistic enough and powerful enough to convene all the nations in the world that are producing wool and to say: 'We should dig our heels in and not be prepared to receive prices for our product which do not give us a fair margin.' 
I am extremely concerned not only with the position of the producer himself; it goes much further than that. I am concerned with the communities on the basis that the existence or non-existence of our communities means the existence or nonexistence of the truly Australian way of life which is in the outback parts of this great nation. 1 am concerned with its survival. I do not think it is a matter of the progress cf the industry, lt is a matter of its survival, unless of course something very drastic is done about it. On the action taken, the results achieved and the urgency with which the matter is regarded will depend the vigour and vitality of these western communities. I refer to the small businessman and to the shire councils which are dependent upon the producer for the great bulk of their rates and on which depend a large work force. The major employer of labour in any of our small country towns is the local shire council. I am not referring to places such as Mount Isa, Blackwater and other mining centres. I am referring to the normal outback rural communities which are so dependent on the wool industry. This is the livelihood of these people who are the ordinary working class in our communities. They do not want to leave these areas. I know that people refer to us as hill-billies and those on the other side of the House sneer at us as they are probably doing now, but I am far too interested in a major national problem to listen to interjections. The survival and the livelihood of these people in outback communities depend on a solution to the problem facing the industry. They do not want to leave the west. Intrinsically they are people who love the country and they would only leave if economic conditions forced them out. 
My final point is that the Queensland Government some few weeks ago forwarded submissions to the Federal Government. Those submissions have now been before the Cabinet for some weeks. In reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  assured him that the submissions were being processed by the Treasury and there should be an announcement forthcoming with urgency. 1 most earnestly plead with the Prime Minister to make this announcement through his Cabinet as urgently as possible because some of the people involved cannot survive another month. I plead with the Prime Minister to make this announcement as soon as possible and so assist the areas which are afflicted by drought. 
1 agree with previous speakers that this Bill fulfils a need the meeting of which is long overdue. I do not propose to recount the history of film making in Australia but it is a pretty sorry story. This has been due to a number of factors, all of which conspired to produce films which by world standards were pretty shoddy. We can remember the early days when films like 'For the Term of  His  Natural Life' were produced, the era of the Dad and Dave films which I suppose were entertaining to many Australians, and finally the efforts which culminated in the production of 'They're a Weird Mob', which was a pretty good film. None of those films, including 'They're a Weird Mob', would make any impact in countries other than Australia. It appears to me, as one who has been associated with the film industry for some years, that one of the great shortcomings in the history of our film making was that we made films essentially for local consumption. The people responsible had rather a poor opinion of the standards expected by Australian people. 
Having said all that, perhaps somewhat in contradiction I pay a tribute to Charles Chauvel. He did everything possible in most discouraging circumstances to build up a film industry in Australia. Because of his efforts and the efforts of a few people with him we have now reached the gratifying position today where the Australian film industry is to be assisted. I agree with the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  when he says that $lm is a very modest sum, particularly when one has regard to what a really good movie costs to produce. It is perfectly obvious that the Sim proposed in the BDI will serve only to establish the Corporation and perhaps give some sort of launching point for someone or some group of people who are prepared to embark on the production of a worthwhile film. 
Let us consider for a moment the ingredients that are necessary to produce a really worthwhile movie. 1 would say that people overseas and in Australia would now regard our previous history of film making as a closed chapter. We are commencing afresh. Hence the first film that is now to be produced here could well set the standard by which our capability of becoming an identity in the film making world shall be judged. The first ingredient - 1 suppose it is the first necessity for most enterprises - is finance. If film making in this new era is to be worthwhile a lot of money will be required. If a person has been involved in purchasing films, in looking at them and in trying to separate the chaff from the wheat, he gets rather a second sense. He can almost detect, when a film is getting a huge build up by the distributors, that they are trying to cover up what has been a pretty shoddy film that has been produced on a shoe-string budget, lt becomes perfectly obvious when that film is exhibited and the audience or lack of audience gives a clear indication of how the film is received. There will have to be adequate finance and I repeat that this Sim could not contribute to the making of a film. Every penny of that will be required to set; up the Corporation. 
The next requirement is the people responsible for making films. The most important department is that of directorship. The directing of a film is quite clearly the most important aspect of film making in this great art of the cinema. As an example I refer to 2 of our television series, 'Bellbird1 and 'Homicide', both of which have almost universal acceptance here in Australia. I do not know whether they would be exhibited overseas. I should imagine that 'Bellbird' would not be of much interest to people living elsewhere but Homicide' would be of some interest. Homicide' would most certainly be most acceptable to people wanting realities. I would say this series has a very authentic touch about it. ft is apparent that the directorship of both of these television series is quite outstanding and that wc do have directors of outstanding ability in this country. 
As to the other requirements I suppose that most people would, without giving too much thought to these things, say that the actor in the film provides the most important facet of film making, but of course this is not entirely correct. Here again we must get back to the first film that we will produce. I think that it is vital to get some big name in the film industry to lake part in our first production. Before a musician becomes qualified to be so called he must achieve a certain degree of excellence. The same applies to technicians. We have adequate people in Australia who could fit the bill in these directions. One outstanding example of a film that would take in Australia is True Grit', for which John Wayne received an Academy Award. 
It was a western film of tremendous appeal. In Australia we have all of the requirements for the production of this type of outdoor film. Some honourable members may feel that this type of film is not particularly popular these days, that people prefer so called adult films - films which have a pretty high content of violence and sex. It might interest honourable members to know that it is on record in the current copy of 'Box Office', which is the periodical that is circulated to most film exhibitors throughout the world, that almost 90% of the top box office attractions are the wholesome family type film. One immediately thinks of films such as 'Sound of Music', 'Mary Poppins', 'Oliver', Camelot', and others which do not have an excessive content of violence or sex. We people in the industry know this. We know what we have to pay for those films. While I am on that subject let me say that it is high time that someone took a look at the percentage which is being demanded of exhibitors these days. When the Corporation is established it might well interest itself in some other facet of the cinema world than the actual making of films. Its responsibilities might be extended a little to enable it to look into the matter of the very high percentage charged by distributing companies in Australia to the poor struggling exhibitor who in these days of television is barely able to keep the wolf away from the door. 
I thoroughly agree with the point of view expressed by the honourable member for Franklin as to the difficulties that could arise with the censorship laws which vary from State to State. I should imagine that when a film is made, at least in the early stages when this Corporation is trying to build up a going concern, it might even produce a film that could get through the censor. When one looks at some of the films that are around these days one would think that a fair amount of elasticity would be allowed in the content of our first film as to violence or sex. The Corporation would have a good deal of elasticity to produce a film which would not worry the censor in any State. I should not imagine that this would present any great difficulties. We have wonderful settings in Australia for the making of films, particularly films of the outdoor type. We have excellent light, particularly in the northern parts of Australia. We have unlimited scope for settings. No expense would be involved in providing settings for outdoor films. We have a large field for extras, particularly in the western areas of Queensland; there will be more extras than we will ever need if this drought continues. I suggest very humbly and with respect that when this Bill is passed - there is a surprising degree of unanimity in this matter although an amendment is foreshadowed; but because it will be presented by a Queenslander I think it will be a pretty reasonable one - and when the Corporation is set up it should take into account first and foremost the type of film to be produced. It is perfectly obvious that as Australia is known as a great outdoor country the first film to be produced under the operations of this Corporation should be an outdoor spectacular, and it should include in the cast an actor of some international status. I could suggest 1 or 2 in this House, but I rather think that the type of actor required is the outdoor type and the people I have in mind, if they ever got beyond the Great 
Dividing Range - I mean the Blue Mountains - they would be in real trouble, and hence if they were to portray the type of character I have in mind it would be like a goanna at a maypole dance. 
I would like to say, as one who is in this industry, that we should set out to achieve a box office success. All honourable members would agree that we will do or die in the very early operations of this Corporation. I must disagree with the honourable member for Franklin on one point although I do agree with him to a degree. No-one can say for sure whether any product is going to be a financial success. But we can say this: We can examine the films which have been successful and we will find that in most cases they have been the type of film, as I said before, that appeals to a family. They would be the wholesome type of film like 'Sound of Music' or 'North to Alaska'. The film North to Alaska' is a particular example of an outdoor film which has been a tremendous success. This type of film could be brought back into a theatre time and time again and it would do well. I do not suggest that the Australian film industry should produce a 'Gone With the Wind' unless we can sell the Opera House and apply the funds to the making of such a film. This was a film that cost many millions of dollars many years ago. But with a good deal of forethought and with consultation with people of experience films of the kind I have referred to can be produced. It is very important - and here again I go along with what was said by the honourable member for Franklin - that if people are to be excluded from the Corporation because they have a pecuniary interest in film production surely there should be some compromise. I speak here of people who have experience which may have been gained through their association - even a financial association - with the industry. We would think that when the Minister talks about a pecuniary interest this would relate purely to the investor. But surely the man who would be most qualified is the man who has made a success in the industry. 
I must again refer to the early stages of the operation of the Corporation. It would probably be necessary in these stages to secure the services of some people of international status. I would hope that this industry would be established far away from the great cities of this country. Ft has been proved overseas that the best and most economical place for film studios is away from the more congested areas. There must be space for studios. Hence I would very strongly suggest that there is an area in western Queensland where we can provide just everything. We can provide all sorts of characters - 1 can assure the House of that; we can provide some of the most colourful characters. We can provide vast spaces. We can supply many extras, I regret to say. But above all, we can supply glorious Australian sunshine. There would be no question of holding up a film crew and thousands of extras because of rain - 1 can assure honourable members that there is no danger of that possibly for years to come. If I might make a plug for my own area, those people who establish the studios, as they eventually will, might well give consideration to establishing them in the great outback of Queensland. 
by leave - First of all, I would like to say that this announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is particularly timely. Only today the Premier of Queensland, his Minister for Lands and  Mr Peter  Bell,  President  of the United Graziers Association, leave on a trip to visit the drought afflicted areas of the outback. It is further most timely because only last night the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann), Senator Lawrie, Senator Maunsell  and myself met for a top level conference with the  President  of the Queensland Graingrowers Drought Committee,  Mr Don  Eather, and the Secretary,  Mr Don  McKechnie, to discuss their problems and to bring them into the orbit of consideration for drought relief. I would submit that this was a constructive move. As a result of that conference further submissions will be made to the Federal Government. 
Let me in retrospect outline the work that has been done in Government circles in relation to this drought situation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  quite recently visited the grain growers and small farmers at Mundubbera in the Burnett Valley in the latter part of last year. He addressed them and heard them state their problems. That evening he flew across to Emerald and again met a large gathering of farmers, wheat growers and grain growers generally, and heard their problems. This has been taken into consideration. In reply to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  let me stress this point: Over the last few years we have been out in the field looking into the problems of these areas constantly. I have been accompanied by no less distinguished persons than the right honourable member for Fisher, the honourable member for Maranoa,  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Lawrie.  We have been constantly working through these areas, collecting information and putting it before the Government. Let me get down to the facts. We get a little tired of hearing these grand speeches from the Opposition presenting nebulous solutions to these problems while we are the actual storm troopers casting the blows to secure the measures that are taken by the Government for the people who are affected. 
It all began in the latter part of last year when the most distinguished men in the industry, whom I will name shortly, came down here and received a herring from the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  These men included the  President  of the UGA - this is on the grazing side, I will admit - Councillor Behan, whose names are bywords and traditional in Queensland and who have proven their worth, Johnny Henssler the current  President  of the Central and Northern Graziers Association, and Fred 
Tritton, who is the best known identity in northern Australia for his contribution to primary industry, to the grazing industry - and, I might mention, to the grain growing industry. They then went into conference with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  and the Minister for Primary Industry. This led to a further conference with the Premier of Queensland. This is the action that has been taken. These are not theories or grand speeches. These men were not seeking headlines because of attacks on the Government all the time. This was solid hard work going on behind the scene. The conference was held in Brisbane in November. Subsequently there was another top level conference in Southport. No less a person than the  Deputy  Prime Minister flew to Queensland for that conference. All these identities were there. Out of all this activity has come the announcement which was made today. Admittedly we would all have liked these submissions to have been made earlier. We would have liked the announcement to have been made earlier. Of course, we would like to see the wheels of government turn far more quickly, but at least we have got somewhere today. 
I would now like to deal with the grain growers. About 3 weeks ago while  Senator Lawrie  and I were in Emerald we were approached by the field officer of the Queensland Graingrowers Association,  Mr George  Crawford. He said: !I think it is time that you people who have been working to secure additional drought relief for the grazing industry- 
J ask the PostmasterGeneral whether a number of small rural post offices have recently been downgraded to non-official status. In view of the fact that many of these post offices are subject to drought and seasonal circumstances, will the honourable gentleman undertake to have his Department review the policy in this matter so that the temporary and passing adverse conditions may be taken into account before such decisions are made? Will he assure the House that when their statistics are restored, post offices already reduced in status will be raised to their previous classification? 
I wish to refer to a situation which, although perhaps most intense in my electorate of Kennedy, would apply with equal force in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. I refer to the situation in areas where development is proceeding at such a rate that they are bursting at the seams, making the application of ordinary formulas for growth impossible. The places I have in mind are Mount Isa, Blackwatcr, Moura and other areas that are subject to intense mining development. My remarks on housing could apply to the developing brigalow areas. 
Let me refer particularly to the city of Mount Isa. Many of the people who call into my office in Mount Isa are desperately seeking housing for their families. Intense interest is being shown in Mount Isa in the subject of housing. The local authority is in the process of examining the situation very closely with a view to arriving at a blanket formula for the provision of housing. Do not think I am beingparochial in referring to Mount Isa. The Treasury of this country has benefited greatly from the earnings of this great industrial centre. The value of Mount Isa to the Treasury was evident when the tap was turned off during the great strike a few years ago. 
Almost daily there is some new development in Mount Isa. My remarks apply almost exclusively to areas where you have sudden and dramatic development. Housing is being provided at a fairly abnormal rate but it is not nearly sufficient to cater for all the people coming to Mount Isa with their families. People are forced to live in caravans and other sub-standard accommodation. It is always regrettable when a man comes to the town to work but cannot bring his wife and family with him due to lack of housing. These men do not have large financial resources. They are forced to wait, hoping that a house will become available. 
When a town is dependent almost exclusively on the operations of a great industrial giant such as Mount Isa Mines Limited you might expect the company to provide housing. It has done so to a large extent, but I am afraid much more needs to be done. I sometimes think that institutions such as insurance companies and lending institutions could do more in this field. They have great reservoirs of finance, much of which has come from the earnings of the people who live in places like Mount Isa. Some insurance companies make no secret of the fact that their representatives in those areas each year write$1m worth of business. These companies erect grand buildings in the capital cities. I am not knocking the large capital cities. We are proud of their growth, but their growth should not be at the expense of the areas from which the companies derive their wealth. I do not think anybody would disagree with my view that if you derive tremendous earnings from a country area it is pretty raw to put those earnings into a palatial building in a capital city, at the same time contributing nothing towards the housing of the community from which the earnings are derived. 
I do not want to go too deeply at this stage into the matter of housing because I have under way in the area a survey to ascertain housing needs. The local authority in Mount Isa is doing an excellent job in providing housing, and I do not say that simply to throw bouquets. I mean it. But it is necessary to obtain the views of all sections of the community on this matter. That is why we are conducting the survey. I will place the results of the survey before this House, not because I expect the national Parliament immediately to evaluate the situation and do something about one inland city. That is not the point, but a general principle is involved. State governments, with their limited resources, cannot provide facilities in a place that is subjected to abnormal growth of the kind occuring in Mount lsa. I will have a lot more to say about housing in Mount lsa at a later stage. 
I turn now to another problem: The provision of medical facilities in these inland communities. There is fairly adequate provision in Mount Isa but a great problem exists in the town of Moura. Five or 6 years ago only a dozen children attended the little country school in Moura. Today 500 or 600 children are enrolled at the school. The problem of Moura's growth is snowballing. My concern arises from the fact that there is no hospital in Moura. 1 know that the Queensland Government is closely examining the problem. Time and again I have confererd with the State member for the area, who is a Cabinet Minister. The Queensland Government is doing as much as its resources will allow with a view to overcoming the problem as soon as possible. If the Queensland Government had the resources to do more I would condemn it for not providing hospital facilities in the town but it has only a certain amount of money and can do only so much, lt is vital that hospital and medical facilities be provided for this community. In a mining community the likelihood of serious accident is greater than it is in other settled inland communities. 
We cannot consider the provision of housing in these outback areas without at the same time considering the provision of air conditioning. I am sure that we all concede that it is vital to retain people in these great mining areas which provide billion.; of dollars for Australia in export earnings. When the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, which we passed in the early hours of this morning, becomes law the earnings of these areas will increase considerably, making them more important to Australia than they are now. In view of the importance of these areas we should be doing something to improve living conditions in them. In the small town in which 1 live a scheme has been introduced, based on the earnings of the lowest paid worker in the town, to enable air conditioning to be installed in the houses. Our scheme could be a protoype which the Commonwealth Government might examine with a view to assisting local authorities in other areas to introduce similar schemes. If one little country town can do this, surely the Com monwealth Government can do something. 1 propose to place before this House details of the scheme which operates in my town. 1 am sure that all honourable member will support it. 
This is my grievance. We will have to evaluate the situations of these communities which are bursting at the seams - growing at an abnormal rate - with a view to providing the States with financial assistance to meet this abnormal growth. IF any honourable member wants to se&lt;; a classic example of the abnormal growth to which I have referred I shall be happy to receive him in my electorate. Many people come into the area, particularly at election time- 
I think there is fairly unanimous support for this Bill. I think all honourable members support the proposal to provide a high standard of accommodation in university colleges and the facilities to enable students to study properly. Under this Bill $47,241 is being provided for the women's hall of residence at the University of Tasmania and $454,930 for the Roberts Hall at Monash University. These are genuine contributions. Having said that 1 would like to draw attention to the position of some university students who unfortunately are not able to take advantage of the accepted conventional type of university college accommodation. The underprivileged student with a real desire to equip himself for his chosen profession - the type of person who eventually becomes one of our most valued professional men - does not have the means to live at a university college. He usually works during vacation in order to accumulate sufficient funds to pay his board and at least part of his university expenses. He is taxed on his earnings, which may be quite significant over a period of perhaps 3 months. But his accommodation expenses and fees paid to the university cannot be claimed as deductions for income tax purposes. This is most unfair. When considering university accommodation we certainly should consider the student to whom I have referred. 1 hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  will again examine the matter I have raised with a view to finding some way to grant a concession to these students and permit these deductions. 
These days, unfortunately, when we think of university students we immediately think of the small sad group of people who have proved that they are misfits. They have to find some way to make an impact on society, and they readily fall victim to the drug pusher and the porno pedlar. They become Pinochios who jump when the strings are pulled by some Communist controlled group. 
lt is most relevant, because the taxpayers are providing this sum of more than $500,000. 
My remarks will not occupy very much time. I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that this contribution by the Government is extremely generous, particularly in view of the fact that Australia, like almost every country in the world these days, sees a most explosive position in regard to the provision of education and, of course, the most vital elements of all in education are those who teach. I would like to draw attention to one or two matters that affect more precisely the remote areas such as the one that 1 represent. 
Anyone familiar with these areas will know the demands that are made on the teaching profession, particularly on the young teacher who is trained in metropolitan and provincial areas and who is sent out into these remote areas. Such a teacher sometimes has quite an emotional and psychological problem. I could give the House examples of the tragedies that have occurred in very remote centres where teachers are not specifically equipped in face up to what is rather a demanding way of life. I feel that the Federal Government would do well to confer with State governments in regard to the psychological equipment and special training that are needed for people who have to go into these areas. These areas have quite an impact on teachers who have just come out of the no-mans land of adolescence and who have been trained in more sophisticated areas. Of course, I suppose a great majority of them are young people who have been born and reared in these areas. So there are peculiar demands on teachers when they get out into the more rugged parts of the country. As I have said, this change has sometimes resulted in quite tragic consequences, particularly in the case of young men. I shall not go into that minutely on this occasion because I have another matter to which I wish to draw attention. 1 do not want by remarks to be misconstrued for one moment, but the most recent addition to my State of Queensland in the educational field has been the estab lishment of a teachers training college in the city of Townsville. I have a great sentimental and geographical attachment to Townsville and I very proudly regard it as my capital. It is a wonderful city. But 1 do think there was not a particular display of logic or common sense when this college was established in the city of Townsville. I mention this to bring out a particular point. The demands of a teachers training college are such that we try to attract to them people who are particularly familiar with the environment or particularly suited to specialise in a particular environment. 
We have a very special environment in northern Australia and one would logically, I imagine, establish a teachers training college - one of the essential facets of education generally - in a town that is renowned for education, if such a town is offering. In northern Queensland this very town was offering. I refer to the city of Charters Towers which has most of the major secondary schools in the part of Queensland to which I am referring. If you like, it is the Armidale of Queensland. I think most definitely that this teachers training college should have been established in Charters Towers. I say this with all due respect to the very beautiful tropical city of Townsville. But it is no good talking about the past. 
I would just say that if we are to provide huge amounts of money we should have regard to the people who are supplying the funds. I tried to make this point yesterday when I pointed out that if we object to certain disruptive elements - strange odd elements who are so publicised in university life these days - and if we protest we are doing so because we are footing the bill. This money is provided by the Federal Government, the taxpayer, you and I and everyone in this chamber. Hence we have an obligation to evaluate the situation and make sure that guidelines are set down. Even though we do not want to encroach upon the sacred and sovereign rights of the States I feel that we should at least evaluate and regard these situations. Hence, should there be any further contributions by the Federal Government to State facilities in my State and should these contributions involve north Queensland, I most certainly say that the great and intense educational centre of Charters Towers should be given full consideration. This is not being parochial; there is a principle involved. 
The establishment of a teachers training college at Charters Towers brings in the question of decentralisation,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  of which you yourself are such an ardent advocate, We must decentralise, too, from provincial centres. We must take this matter to its logical consequence. Hence, we must regard these situations in relation to decentralisation. 
While talking about decentralisation,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 read something recently about your own State of New South Wales. I mention that the State of Queensland is a classical example of success, to a point, on this matter of decentralisation. Probably it has been taken to a greater extreme than any other State in the Commonwealth. But your own State of New South Wales,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  has recently proved, I believe by a survey, that it has set out to create special instruments and special bodies to concentrate on and give their specialised attention to decentralisation, particularly in the category of education. The survey showed they had encouraged, deliberately, various enterprises, including educational facilities to participate. The survey asked a particular question. The question was this: If you had again to choose where you would establish your enterprise or factory would you choose the country or one of the large cities? The answers showed that the people concerned were 100% satisfied with what they had done. So 1 think this principle must be applied to the establishment of such facilities as teacher training colleges. I find when 1 look at the Bill that 2 projects are earmarked for Queensland. Had they not been extensions of existing colleges 1 would have had to protest even against the activities of my own Government. I am pleased to see they are just extensions of the existing colleges at Mount Gravatt and Kelvin Grove. 1 think both sides of the House do not have an argument here. We greatly appreciate the fact that the increase has been from $24m to $30m in this tri.ennium and I am sure it w l) add greatly to the wealth of culture and education in this nation. 
Before I make a few comments on this Bill I would like to refer to one or two of the statements or impressions put forward by previous speakers. My good friend the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  said that the Government had adopted a broken-down fire brigade approach to this matter. 1 have some documents with me which indicate that the approach was very thoroughly prepared, organised and presented and it has been brought to a very favourable conclusion. 1 think there are some people in the Bundaberg area who would not be terribly happy to hear this described as a broken-down fire brigade approach. The honourable member then went on to give the impression that he was nol terribly happy about this project in any case. He threw some doubt on whether the priorities for recent water conservation projects should have been arranged as they have been arranged. As a Queenslander, I feel very strongly about water conservation. Anyone who has made the most elementary study of the water resources of the eastern side of this continent is aware that about 80% of the water resources south of a line running approximately from Dubbo to Sydney have been harnessed and developed, lt is little wonder that we in the north scream a good deal about water resources. In comparison, above that line we find that about 20% of the water resources have been harnessed. The importance of water conservation cannot bc brought home strongly enough not only to honourable members but also to the nation if we are to adopt a responsible approach to the development of remote areas and other areas not quite so remote, such as that dealt with in th s Bill. 
I can quite understand the approach of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I do not say this maliciously, but he is an academic. He is one of our most brilliant academics. He has moved an amendment to the motion for the second read ng which states that: 'the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House'. He feels that that information should bc made available, studied and examined. These documents have been referred to as being great secret documents. 1 have a particular attitude towards this business of pressing buttons on computers and reducing the final summing up as to whether a dam should or should not be built to a matter of the evaluation by the back room boys and our economists and so on. I do not think a dam would be built in Australia if projects were subject to this sort of treatment. However, 1 believe that my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  has dealt with that matter so I will say no more about it. lt was good to hear the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  speak in this debate. He is one urban dweller - perhaps there are many more - who is prepared to speak in support of this project although he represents a densely populated city area which has ample water supplies. He commended the Government for introducing this scheme and so he darned well should. So should anyone who is interested in the development of this nation. 
Now I want to refer to what was said by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen).  There is a funny thing about the development of these large schemes. Before they are approved you find people arguing for them and criticising the Government for not taking action but the moment approval is given they throw their hands in the air and cry 'Polities'. The honourable members for Wide Bay and Capricornia suggested that the approval of this scheme is a matter of politics. But it is rather strange - and 1 draw the attention of honourable members to this fact - that the areas covered by these schemes are represented almost entirely by members of the Australian Labor Party. I do not see how politics come into it. Let us be honest and realistic. The Queensland Government created the priorities and its first priority was the dam on the Nogoa River which was represented in that Queensland Parliament by the honourable member for Barcoo, an Australian Labor Party member. This project was given its priority by a  Country  Parly-Liberal Party Government. Therefore I cannot see any political prejudice involved. This approach is completely illogical, lt is. indeed, playing politics. 
I would like to pay tribute to the manner in which this project was handled and particularly to those involved in it. I have in mind the people who are very well known in Queensland, such as Ben Anderson, 
Gordon Chenery, and the team of fellows who got together, organised their community and showed the Government that they really meant business. What is more, they had a case. People can get determined and quite emotional' and present a very determined front but if they do not have a case to present to the Government then their actions are pretty futile. Not only did these men have a case but they prepared it magnificently and most constructively. I well remember when this scheme began to gel into gear. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  myself, the local State ALP member and others were involved. There was nothing political about the meeting held in Bundaberg when this project got moving. I cannot remember whether the honourable member for Wide Bay was present but he was greatly interested in the scheme and very much behind it. 1 pay full tribute to him. 1 was involved because part of the scheme takes in the Lower Burnett which is in the Kennedy electorate. We worked then as a team to gain approval for this scheme. 
Some excellent reports were prepared and presented to the Government. These fellows did not go around screaming that the Government was doing nothing. They made no fewer than 3 trips here to Canberra. I had the privilege of introducing the deputation to the then Minister for National Development. They presented a very aggressive and very determined show of strength to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The entire community was involved. A large petition, constructively worded and not destructively worded, was presented. Finally, with the advent of this Government, approval was gained for a grant of $l2.Sm. The State Government not only gave this scheme its priority and approval; it provided over S8m for part of the construction. 
Let us look for a moment at the situation which existed before the agitation for the building of this dam reached its climax - the situation before this irrigation scheme was suggested for the Bundaberg area. I think that if there were any people who had any doubts about the case claiming the dire necessity for something to be done, and done with great urgency, for this area in the matter of water conservation they would be convinced entirely that it was not only necessary but urgently necessary if they read the short preamble to a report that was prepared for presentation to the Federal Government. It reads: 
The clear justification for the Bundaberg Scheme lies iii its humanitarian aspects. Water is urgently needed to protect the future of a district of 45,000 people against severe financial hardship or worse. The Bundaberg-Childers region cannot survive a prolonged drought period similar to 1899-1910 without irrigation and remain economically viable. The unregulated water resources of the area are already seriously overdrawn and the Bundaberg scheme represents an urgent rescue operation. 
This brings me to the comment of the honourable member for Wide Bay who compared the Nogoa scheme and the Bundaberg scheme and suggested that the economics of both schemes indicated that there should have been greater priority for the Bundaberg scheme. I do not think that one can make a comparison. The Bundaberg scheme was, as is shown by the passage 1 have just quoted, a rescue operation. The survival of the BungabergIsisKolan area as a sugar producing area in Queensland was dependent on the provision of some form of conservation and irrigation. What is probably a more critical point in the whole argument is that the water supplies for the city of Bundaberg were very much endangered. Let me make it perfectly clear that the other scheme was strictly a scheme of development, a scheme which would lead to the establishment of small farms, small grazing and eventually. 1 would hope, to block feeding and - which is much more important to the inland areas that I represent - would allow the area it served to become the feed bowl in future droughts. This would mean that people living in inland areas would not have to face up to exploitation and the insecurity of fodder supplies that they have endured over many years of drought, which have not yet ended. 
Let us take a closer look at the situation in the Bundaberg area. There are approximately 1,570 individual  assignments for cane growing in the area. There are 6 raw sugar mills and associated with one of these mills is an alcohol distillery run as an adjunct to the mill's raw milling operations. In drought years production shortfalls related to peaks reach as high as 45% - this is a pretty staggering percentage; - which at a sugar value of $100 per ton is equal to Si 5m. This is a severe loss to any area. 
Average annual production shortfall percentages over the past 40-year period, related to present peaks and $100 per ton sugar value, yield an annual loss of sugar revenue of approximately S5m. We can see just how critically important it is for this area to have approval for such a scheme. 
Over this period of drought the Queensland Government - let us be honest about this - came to the rescue of these drought stricken cane farmers with long term low interest loans. But this is a palliative. If this scheme had not been introduced there would be constant insecurity in this area which would lead eventually to a complete drop in morale, and another rural area would begin to fold up. So this was a pretty critical situation. I have heard  Mr Haig,  the chief of the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission in Queensland referred to in this place tonight. This man has a reputation second to none in the whole of this nation. He has a splendid record and I am sure that there is not a State in the Commonwealth that would not be delighted indeed to secure his services. He, with the co-operation of the Queensland Department of Primary Industries, went thoroughly into this matter. They examined every aspect of it. I would suggest that they had a far more accurate knowledge of the position than anybody else could have, because they worked in cooperation with the people who were actually involved - the local authorities, the sugar producers, the millers and so on. They would have a far more realistic approach and a better ability to evaluate the necessity for this scheme than would people far removed in Canberra - and 1 say that with all due respect to the Commonwealth Bureau of Agricultural Economics.  Mr Haigh  and the Department said: 
The outstanding feature of the investigation is the need for irrigation to raise the whole efficiency and security of the Bundaberg region sugar industry. This is essential to remove the threat of catastrophic loss wilh recurrence of prolonged drought periods. . . . 
Again they referred to the period 1899- 1910. They went on to state: 
If repeated under present conditions of peaks, prices and overdeveloped underground supplies, production losses exceeding S50m over the period could result, which could destroy- 
And here is the crunch - the  Bundaberg sugar industry. 
Finally. I noticed in the second reading speech of the Minister for National Development, who is at the table, the statement that this is the first of the grants made under the new national water resources development programme, which means that this is indeed an historic event, lt is good to think that a fair city like Bundaberg and the most productive sugar producing areas around this fair city are involved in an historic occasion. 
I would like to make one point. I would most sincerely hope that the Federal Government, in addition to planning for these major projects, will look closely and evaluate the virtue of, and the necessity for, small irrigation schemes. We have a great inland part of Queensland which is known as the arid urea where one is not supposed to be able to grow anything. I am sure that if we consulted a computer it would regard any person who attempted to grow crops in that area as being at least partially insane. J know a fellow out there at a place called Richmond who set out to disprove the theories, which had stood for so long, that nothing of any consequence could be grown out in that area of Queensland. He has produced, and is still producing, some of the finest cotton in Queensland. He has done that with a rainfall of about 3 inches a year. Perhaps honourable members think I am a little crazy, but he has produced excellent cotton. Let us come a little further south to the town of Winton which is appallingly affected by drought. If one rode round the paddocks there and found a few blades of grass one would be doing pretty well. As a matter of fact, most of the area looks like pebbly ridges. In the most drought affected area in that part of the State a fellow named Charles Foi lot t decided to experiment with the keyline irrigation scheme. A lot of people threw up their hands when one mentions keyline. Because it was not government sponsored or government produced they think it cannot possibly be practical. If you have a little time hop in your car and slip down to Albury and have a look at some of the experimental farms that are operating there. If you are not convinced that this is the answer where it is applicable - and that is to most properties! - let me tell you what be did. He had a place which was devastated by drought. People on all the surrounding properties said: 'Charles Foi lot t has gone mad. How could he possibly introduce an irrigation scheme into this area?' With an old broken down grader he graded the contours of his property. He directed the water into one major channel and ran it into a dam for what he calls his feed pens. I am not going to go into great detail on this but people can get out graphs and use computers and argue for ever and a day that something cannot be done and whilst they are doing this some fellow in the backblocks is doing it. lt would do well for Federal and State government authorities to look closely at the keyline system of irrigation, lt is a very simple process in which natural landscaping and runoff are used. A person uses trees, runoff - the whole blasted lot. I beg your pardon.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but a person may have to blast. I was not being rude. This system could bc the answer to drought mitigation. However, 1 did not relate the last part of the story about this property near Winton. While others are going broke around him and are in extreme trouble - and no people are in more trouble than the third generation graziers in that area: people who pioneered the area now look as though they may have to pack their swags and walk off the land - he is buying sheep for next to nothing and fattening them in his feed pens, simply because he has used the natural resources on his land. It would do the Federal and State governments good to look at this property and to examine the possibility of providing some sort of subsidy to assist people to construct these small irrigation schemes. 1 conclude by commending the Government for accepting the Queensland Government's priority and the splendidly prepared arguments in the case put by those people most concerned. This was a wonderful example of rural and urban co-operation. The people of Bundaberg and the farmers in the area got together and persuaded the Government to grant them the best part of Si 3m. I commend the Government for doing so. 
I. suppose there is no-one who is associated with any form of government who would not agree that local government should receive greatly increased funds for its normal operations. I do not intend to wake a statistical comparison between what the present Government would claim should -be done and the record of governments that have preceded it in gradually and continuously increasing the funds that are made available to local government. What  1  should like to do is to give one or two examples from my own practical experience as a shire chairman, deputy chairman and member of a harbour board under a Labor government in Queensland.  1  would issue this in the form of a challenge, lt would be interesting for some honourable member to produce a record of the funds made  available for the development of areas, other than the metropolitan area, in Queensland during that long and unworthy term of government by the Australian Labor Party. It is all very well for an honourable member to get up and read a speech and give statistics. I find that members of the Opposition have a manoeuvrability and can get up .and claim they can do this or do that. I suppose I am one of those unfortunate people who will never get this manoeuvrability because  1  w  11  never have an opportunity of sitting on the Opposition benches. 
Let me get back to the value of practical experience in local government. I - do not know what experience the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who gets up and says that the States have starved local government authorities, has had in local government or semi-government bodies. I do not know what experience the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has had in this very hard school. One may ask: What have I done in local government bodies? My whole adult lifetime has been spent as a member of local government or semi-government bodies. I have had a pretty tough road to hoe. I was at one time  chairman  of the shire which controlled Mount Isa. Let me tell the House about this practical experience of which  1  have been talking. When  1  was chairman of that shire the restrictions on the use of water, which is a pretty important commodity, in Mount lsa were such that the water was turned off at  6  o'clock each night. The people of Mount Isa just could not get any water at all after that time.  1  went down' to Brisbane and pleaded with the Labor Government that then controlled Queensland to do something about this situation. I do not think there was a branch of the Australian Labor Party in that town which did not plead with that Government, which was based in Brisbane and whose thoughts never got beyond the Great Dividing Range. These are the sorts of  people who today have been saying that this Commonwealth Government should give increased funds and increased consideration to local government authorities. 
Another exercise would be to examine the record of achievements by local government authorities under the jurisdiction of the Labor Government in the State of Queensland in relation to the bituminising of streets and the provision of kerbing and channelling and all those things that normally come with the development of areas controlled by local authorities. I suppose we must admit that local authorities are dependent on State governments for finance but above all for consideration. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  who will follow me in this debate, lives in a city that has developed dramatically under its present Lord Mayor. It would be political humbug for anyone to take credit away from the Lord Mayor for his achievements in that city. However, I think he himself would readily admit that his achievements would not have been possible if it were not for a considerate government, a government with which he has worked very closely. He has had the best of relations with the various Ministers for Local Government and Electricity in Queensland. So here is an example of cooperation by a State government with local government authorities, not an example of a State government starving the Brisbane City Council of funds to develop this great city. These ideas for development were initiated by the present Lord Mayor of Brisbane. 1 do not take this credit away from him for one moment. 
But it is futile and political humbug to get up here and claim that this Federal Government is falling down on the job. I would say that there is a great need for local government authorities generally to have a new deal in their relationship with the Federal Government. I say this without for a moment suggesting that the responsibilities, the authority or the sovereignty of the State governments should in any way be interferred with. But 1 have always maintained that if we want effective and telling decentralisation the most effective way of producing it is to give greater responsibilities to' local government authorities and to give them the finance that will permit them to meet these added responsibilities. I have always expressed this thought - 1 expressed it at the Australian Council of Local Government annual conference held in Melbourne earlier this year, so it is not something new - there should be representation of local government authorities at the Australian Loan Council discussions. I do not mean by that their representatives should be there to interfere with the discussions that should take place and the representations that should be made by the Ministers for Local Government and the various other people  who may be present at those discussions. But 1 do feel that if they are not permitted to make representations at the Loan Council meetings they should most certainly be able to approach the Treasurer annually to place their own case before him, not with the object of securing funds directly from the Commonwealth but of bringing home directly from local government authorities to the Federal Treasurer the burdens which local government bodies carry at this time. 
I come a little nearer to home. .In the outback areas of this nation - and this would apply to almost every State - we see a problem which is an international one. There is a trend for people to move away from rural areas to the city. Therefore the rating capacity of the rural areas becomes less and less. I believe that this situation should be very closely examined al all government levels. I think it is becoming serious enough to warrant an inquiry, noi by a select committee, but something of greater consequence, to look into the problems of local authorities and their finances. I can well understand the Leader of the Opposition getting up and reading what was prepared for him. I must assume that his remarks must almost exclusively be applied to netropolitan municipalities. 1 know this is quoted again and again, but we never have ny reason to believe that the Leader of the Opposition has ever altered a point of view which he expressed in very explicit and strong terms when he addressed the Australian Planning Institute in 196S in Sydney. On that occasion he said: 'Cities and civilisation go hand in hand. By derivation civilised men are those who live in cities; pagans are those who live in the country'. As long as 1 am in this House I have a role to play together with my colleagues in this section of the House, and that is to fight vigorously for those alleged pagans. If the Leader of the Opposition likes to refer to us as Thor, Woden or Mars, we will accept it. But let it never be forgotten. There are 2 things about the- Leader' of the Opposition that will linger forever in my memory. The first is the comment by him to which I have referred and the second is the fact that he stood in front of this House and addressed 1,200 people under 2 Vietcong flags. 
No, not at all. If the honourable member for Chifley called a quorum with the best of good intentions to try to fill his own benches and the result is that they are utterly empty, one would have to conclude that, speaking en masse, this was a fairly hypocritical sort of an operation. But. however, in relation to this Bill- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, when the people on the other side refer to the 'Burketown News' and galahs and trees and so on, obviously they are only reflecting the comments of their Leader who has said in very clear and precise terms- 
I am utterly amazed at the performance of the Opposition. We had the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in all good faith calling for a quorum, thus occupying another 10 minutes of our time. We filled our benches fairly significantly, but I found that the honourable member for Chifley was still sitting over on the other side on his own, apart from the hard working honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who was sitting at the table. With the exception of those 2 people the Labor benches were absolutely empty. Does this reflect any great interest? With all this sanctimonious crying out that this industry is worth so much to this nation and so on, one begins to wonder whether the Opposition is really fair dinkum. I think the conclusion we would come to in regard to matters affecting our rural areas is that at all times honourable members opposite are utterly and completely hypocritical politically. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of the fact that television has only recently been approved for many rural areas in Australia, particularly for the electorate of Kennedy where  13  of the  38  stations are to be provided, and because urban and provincial areas where so many other amenities are readily available have enjoyed this facility for many years, will the PostmasterGeneral assure the House that the installation of these stations will take place without delay and that there will be no question of colour television being installed at the expense of our areas? 
First, I wishto say thatI understand the feelings of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  on the matter of the spectacles. But I go a little further. I wonder why the Department of Social Services does not try to budget to provide pensioners with hornrimmed spectacles free of charge.In my view the supply of steel-rimmed spectacles relegates pensioners to the position of second-class citizens. I have heard complaints about this matter from all parts of my electorate recently, so I can appreciate what the honourable member has had to say about it. 
The subject on which I wish to speak is the critical drought situation in my own area and in parts of the area represented by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I do not propose to go over all the ground that has been covered in this chamber time and time again, but one thing I do wish to say is that with all the accent at the moment being placed on floods, heavy rains and the saturation of the country generally, it just may be forgotten that in an area from somewhere south of Charleville to north of MountIsa there is a long line of devastated country black with drought. 
I wishto speak for these few minutes in support of the Premier of Queensland, the Honourable Jo Bjelke-Petersen. Last week he approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  onthis subject. The Premier had just concluded a trip through these droughtstricken areas, and it was made terribly apparent to him again that they were in a condition of catastrophe. I am not being dramatic about the situation. I am using words which aptly describe the position and bring home its severity not onlyto this House but also to the nation. 
The Premier of Queensland telephoned the Prime Minister. He requested that this area be declared a disaster area. One may imagine that the Premier was carried away and that he may have dramatised the situation. I proposeto bring forward just a few facts which should be appreciated by any fair-minded Australian who is concerned aboutthe lot of people who are still frontier people and who occupy areas which have been absolutely invaluable to this nation and, bythe way still are. I do not think that anyone can stand by and see an industry such as the wool industry scuttled. This industry even with the shrunken price of wool - I refer to the ridiculous price of wool that exists at the moment - and with the long years and years and years and years of drought has been reduced to the point where the value of its production to this nation is only $650m.I rather wonder whether there is or even was any other single industry that would produce this amount of overseas credits in those circumstances. We just cannot stand by. The industry is of national importance.I have a feeling that the people in the urban areas are beginning to realise that representations made on behalf of the people in these areas are not just parochial grievances but are of extreme national importance. Admittedly we now have the Australian Wool Commission sounding a warning that this nation cannot stand by any longer and see the wool industry at the mercy of the auctioneer or those who answer his call and buy the wool. 1 wonder whether we could even get to the stage - of course this would depend on the decision of the wool producers themselves - when the wool producers say: 'We are not going to sell any more wool'. People may think that this would be playing right into the hands of overseas interests. That would not be the case. We remember that some years ago we could go into a shop and buy a tin of coffee for ls 6d in the days of pounds, shillings and pence. I was a very young man in those days. Some months later we could not buy coffee, and then after several more months had elapsed we could buy coffee but we had to pay about 5s 9d a tin for it, if I remember rightly. The producer of coffee and those depending on him, those who worked for him and the townspeople depending on him, found that they were suddenly being scuttled by a small group of buyers who had decided that they would dominate the world price of coffee. They took their coffee and dumped it in the ocean. 
I am not suggesting for a moment that we would do this with our wool, but I am saying that the party is over and that the Wool Commission is issuing this warning. lt is buying wool. Let those who are criticising this and asking how long it can go on understand that a great part of the economic survival of this country depends on the success of the operations of the Commission. We have the primary, secondary and tertiary stages in the wool family, if I may call it that. I had discussions in New York with the Director of the International Wool Secretariat. He went to great pains to tell me about the advances that had been made in wool and about a new product manufactured from wool that could be thrown into a washing machine and swirled around and treated in the same way as an ordinary garment. He showed me some of the publicity features that were being promulgated throughout the United States. I heard him out and then said: 'This is very interesting. It is wonderful to see that a manufacturer is producing such a wonderful garment. You have told me that there are 40 million garments in the retail stores of the United Slates. I am sure that none of this will bring consolation to people who are producing wool in my area; people who at one time used to sink dams and build fences and shear sheep, lt is not much consolation to the business people who are second, third and probably now fourth generations of families in that area and who are not there because of the profits they make'. Do not be mistaken in this matter. I am a small town businessman in inland Queensland. We have never made profits that were very worthwhile, but we like the way of life and we like living in those areas. It is a part of our existence, and -we will not stand by and see it scuttled. 
The purpose of my few words here today is to appeal to the Prime Minister to take this appeal to heart. This is a disaster area. People may say that we are pouring millions of dollars into these areas, that we are providing drought relief, that we. are providing sustenance or that we now have a rural reconstruction scheme. I hope that time permits my colleague, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  to say something about the rural reconstruction scheme. In my view no-one is more qualified to do so. It is all very well to say that money is being poured into our rural industries, but let us look at some of the things that have happened over the last few weeks. We have seen Minsec crash and we are told that VAM is in financial trouble. These mining companies were glamour companies not so long ago, and people were pushing primary industries into the background as though they were of little importance. I think that the hard truth is at long last coming home to the people of Australia, that these primary industries will be with us for ever provided that they are permitted to survive. They are the substance of this nation. 
Although we cherish the great mining companies and realise the value of what they have done for this nation and will continue to do, let us not imagine that we can regard our agricultural and grazing industries as being of secondary importance. Let me give a few figures showing the value of wool sold in Queensland. In 1965-66 the total amount sold was $95. 9m. Incidentally, that was a drought year. The average price of wool in 1965-66 was 48.5c per pound. In 1966-67 the value of wool sold was pretty well the same. It was valued at $95. 3m, and the price was 46.93c per pound. In 1967- 68, again a drought year, the total amount sold was valued at $97.4m. Finally, in 1969- 70 wool to the value of $72. 2m was sold at an average price of 37.55c per pound. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the following table: 

<graphic href="071131197102184_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

Figures include wool received from New South Wales. Approximately 10 per cent of Queensland wool is sold in New South Wales. Figuresdo not include wool sold privately. 
D = drought year. 
I have also a table showing the estimated indebtedness of sheep properties. I would like it to be incorporated in Hansard so that those who arc interested in the survival of an industry worth between $600m and $700m to this nation may read it. I am sure that no-one would object to these figures being disclosed. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the following table showing the estimated indebtedness of sheep properties in the Queensland pastoral zone, primarily in the drought stricken zones, to the lending institutions: 

<graphic href="071131197102184_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

Finally, I again appeal to the Prime Minister and his Cabinet to heed comments I have made about the great Australian wool industry. 
The only comment which I want to make about the speech of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  concerns what he said about the Bundaberg irrigation scheme - that all facets of the scheme should be put into operation. I would draw the attention of the House to the fact that an important weir - perhaps not as important at this stage as those projects associated with the development of the IsisKolanBundaberg area - is proposed to be built adjacent to Gayndah. I hope that the Queensland Government does not push that project into the background. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that there is no necessity for any drastic or fundamental change to the existing Agreement. He said that the new agreement will follow the traditional lines of other agreements. 1 think that this state of affairs is a tribute to the work and dedication, particularly on Australia's part, that has gone into the formulation of .international sugar agreements. Full tribute should be paid in particular to the epic performance of  Sir John  McEwen 2 years ago at Geneva. Also, a tribute should be paid to the present Minister for Trade arid Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for the impact that he made in London a few years ago. 
When, we consider the domestic side of operations we cannot forget men such as  Mr McEvoy  and members of the Queensland Cane Growers Association. These men do a tremendous job. I think that when we consider an agreement of this nature it is interesting to look at some of the standards which have been created in this great industry. These standards are quite diverse. Apart from the quality of the cane grown and the efficiency of the industry in the great State of Queensland one facet is inclined lo be overlooked. I refer to the tremendous contribution which this industry has made towards the settlement and development  of the northern part of this continent and particularly the north coast of Queensland. It was assumed prior to the growth of this industry that only people of non-European descent could settle and work in the tropics and in areas such as the north coast of Queensland. However, it was soon proved by the early settlers who developed this great industry that Europeans could not only settle in areas such as these but also could develop a great industry and provincial towns and cities into something of which this continent can well be proud. 
Another standard was created in the sugar industry. 1 am talking here of the industrial side of the industry. I suppose  that  some  of the  greatest industrial advances were made by strong healthy militant agitation on the part of the cane cutters and others associated with this industry. Some of the great figures in the unions in Queensland, and perhaps more particularly in the Australian Workers Union, learnt their trade the hard way on the canefields of northern and central Queensland. Perhaps the importance of the job  that the  cane cutter does has slipped a little into the background these days. With  the  development of new implements and machinery for harvesting cane we tend to forget the early Australians and nonAustralians  who  had the backbreaking task of harvesting cane manually. 
I think it would be in order for me again to refer to another standard that was created by  the  sugar industry. That was  the  assimilation of non-Australians or nonAngloSaxon  people -  I refer particularly to Italians. Italians came into the sugar growing areas and they were assimilated; they grew  up in  these areas. We can remember one or two early attempts by their Black Hand organisation to establish itself  in the  Innisfail-Ingham area. This attempt failed dismally because  of  the  excellent  work of Inspector Quin and those associated with him at that time. 
I commend the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on the fact that the statement we are discussing has been approved generally. Of course there are some facets of it that all of us perhaps would like to discuss, re-evaluate or even disagree with, but in the evening newspapers today one could detect that the Minister has been credited with the quality of going so far and knowing when to stop. One could detect almost a tone of approval in the Press on his comment this morning on the statement by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  on drugs. In fact I have detected that tone of approval in regard to censorship generally, whether it be censorship of literature or of the extreme permissiveness in society. There is a new feeling that we have gone far enough. Of course, when I say 'we have gone far enough' I refer more precisely to the so-called Western enlightened democracies. 
I am diametrically opposed to many new members on the other side of the House on the matter of censorship but I will concede that they most earnestly believe in what they put forward and do so in all sincerity. When the honourable member for Maribyrnong says that he wants the complete abandonment of all censorship, he declares clearly and openly where he stands. That gives the Austraiian people the opportunity to consider the standard of future political representation. We on this side of the House adopt the attitude that you regard these things with reason and that you have respect for the standards which have been recognised, not as being out-dated, as was stated a little while ago, but as standards of normal decent conduct. 
To illustrate where I believe these standards have fallen let me cite a few examples of what I saw during my recent visit overseas. Berlin provides a classic example of a city divided into  2  parts, in this case West Berlin and East Berlin- and God forbid that we should ever see West Berlin denied the freedoms that the people of East Berlin enjoy. But let us look at those freedoms according to what we regard as moral standards. It has become a most unpopular practice these days to talk about morality. In doing so one immediately makes oneself a member of some sort of antiquated, archaic society. Honourable members should ask themselves: 'If we are going to abandon completely our old moral standards what code do we live by?' Do we abandon Christianity, for instance? What is our code? Let us make a declaration of this. 
Keeping in mind the code to which we still apparently adhere I shall now. discuss the sort of thing which we saw in Berlin. In West Berlin, where apparently all forms of censorship have been dropped, one can see extreme sex films without any difficulty at all. One can go around the city of West Berlin and see all the permissiveness one would want to see - according to one's own requirements, of ' course. The difference is noticed if when one drives through the gates in the wall and goes into East Berlin as we did the difference in standards is immediately obvious. We made inquiries as we moved around. We examined the various social attitudes. We found that what is permitted in West Berlin is not tolerated in East Berlin. 
We will remember when  Mr Khrushchev  visited the United States. He went on the set of 'Can Can*. Those girls in 'Can Can' would be considered completely overdressed these days.  Mr Khrushchev  commented: 'Here is an example of decadent western society'. This comment made headlines around the world. He was appalled at this decadent western society. Let us be quite honest about this matter. The theorists and academics like to smother over the realities of life and ordinary human reactions by profound theorising. They do not get down to earth and say: Look, if you cut out censorship there would be a sudden upsurge of the extreme pornographic type of literature which we see in just about every western city of the world'. Pot instance, in Copenhagen the dealers in pornography are really desperate at the moment. I think that city had something like 73 porno shops and now the number is down to about 43. Competition is so keen that dealers are looking for something new. One shop has a beauty. It features animal-human relations, of which it has a window display. The authorities cannot say: 'We can give this an R classification', because a small child coming home from school can see it. Nobody is there to blindfold the child before he walks past the porno shop. 
If these shops exist in Copenhagen, they exist in London, in Stockholm, in New York and almost any city in the United States of America. There is one difference. I speak now on a subject of which I do have some authority. Honourable members opposite are laughing; if they think I am going to admit that I am an authority on what I have been speaking about they can think again. But when it comes to motion pictures, they have been my game for about 12 years. I think I know something about them. It was unanimously decided by the Motion Picture Exhibitors Association in Queensland at its conference at Surfers Paradise last year that people were starting to protest against the standard of sex films which were being released in Australia - and believe me, morally these films are the very best of them. 
All honourable members will remember when the Minister for Customs and Excise had a screening at the National Library of cuts from films. All of us went over there and saw them; none of us can deny this. 1 would say that the sum total of all those cuts would not be equal in sex content to any 5 minute reel or 5 minute screening of any of the films which are kept out of Australia. There is a difference in regard to this exhibition of films. There is a difference in the attitude of the general public in different countries. For instance in Denmark it is quite normal to go along and see one of these extreme sex or violence films. The ordinary, average member of the community goes along to these films as he would go along to a normal film. There is a difference in the United States. If one goes down 42nd Street in New York where, I am told, these films are exhibited one sees people going into the theatre almost in disguise because they are thoroughly ashamed of what they are going to see. 
It is not because it is censored at all, but because it is readily available. These people are going to see a film which obviously has a very extreme content of depravity. The Minister for Customs and Excise has .stated that the rate of change is stimulated by a variety of events and factors. He went on to say that censorship is set by community standards. I think the fact that the Minister has maintained the commonsense degree of censorship which he has maintained - and which is approved by the community - represents a tremendous tribute to Australia. 1 move around the country with a pretty lough crowd of people at times. One hears comments and gauges the general feeling of a mixed community when one deals with the mining community at Mount Isa and then the farming communIty in the lower parts of the Kennedy electorate. One obtains a cross-section of opinion. There is general approval of the policy of the present Minister for Customs and Excise.  His  policy of censorship is sane, moderate and acceptable. If this Government went to the people tomorrow on this one question of censorship they would indicate quite clearly where they stand in this matter. 
We come back to this matter of censorship set by community standards. I think the Minister pays a tribute to the Australian community by the standard he has set. This Government has been in power for a long time and the reason is that the people have looked at the composition of this side of the House in an analytical manner. They have looked at the standards of the individuals who represent them. I am not reflecting one bit on the standards of the great majority of honourable members on the other side of the House. As I said a while ago, they are sincere in their views. They sincerely want to see censorship completely abolished from our code. If the Opposition came to power obviously the honourable member for Maribyrnong would stand by his principles. He would urge that young children and young people should have marihuana available to them. Would the people of Australia accept this proposition. He has stated his principles; all right, he is sincere about them. 
I issue this note of warning: We should not go any further in this matter of censorship, certainly not lo the extent of pandering to the minority who demand a relaxation. Who are those who constitute this minority? I say the people who are fomenting this demand for the abolition of censorship are among those who want to make the millions of dollars which are being made in the United States. It was only recently that I read of the fabulous profits which are being made out of porno magazines. They are even more excessive than the profits from poker machines in New South Wales. I say to the Opposition: Stand by your guns. You believe that there should be no censorship. You believe that marihuana should be readily available to young people. Stick to your principles. But I say to honourable members on this side of the House: As long as we stick to our guns the people of Australia will decide that we must stand firm. 
As I wandered around the United States I continually heard comments about Australia. I defy anyone - I do not care who he is or to what political party he belongs - to prove that what I am about to say is incorrect. Wherever I went as soon as I said I was an Australian the reply was: 'That must be a great country. You have not slipped as we have. You have kept your standards.' I imagine that among those standards they meant standards of decency. I do not care how much theorising goes on in this House about how people react to censorship. In the final analysis it is a matter of whether we have a standard of normal decency or whether we want to reduce this country to the level of the animals. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been . drawn to a statement in the Queensland Press in which the honourable member for Capricornia is reported to have advocated the compulsory sterilisation of certain Aboriginals? Would this not be contrary to the spirit of the referendum in which the Australian people gave the Federal Government power to legislate for the good of all the Aboriginal people? Would it not be morally and ethically wrong- 
The opening comment of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  in his second reading speech was: 
The purpose of this Bil] is to establish facilities on a national level .for the conduct of research into crime and for the training of persons engaged in the prevention and control of criminal behaviour. 
I would urge that, when such facilities are provided, they will be applied in a special way to dealing, on a national basis, with the most unspeakable of all criminals. I refer to the monster who organises the distribution of drugs, the 'unhuman' who reaps enormous profits and who introduces to this nation the most reliable of all degenerating factors - the hard drug. Not only is he a murderer but also he is guilty of the worst type of mass treason to this wonderful country. 
I refer now to some statistics, instances and experiences in the United States of America. 1 state clearly that I do this not on the basis that the United States of America is the only country which is subjected to an intense problem in relation to the distribution of hard and other drugs but because it is interesting to note the statistics of drug trafficking in the United States, lt is estimated that in the 1940-45 period there were 20,000 addicts. In the 1950s there were 60,000 addicts. Currently there are 120,000 to 150,000 so addicted. It is interesting to note that narcotic addiction used to be a disease of Caucasians and Chinese, many in the older age groups. At present only 30 per cent of all addicts in the United States of America are Caucasians or Chinese. Heroin abuse is primarily a disease of repressed minorities: 50.4 per cent of the users are Negro, 13.6 per cent are Puerto Rican and 5.4 per cent are Mexican. Half the known addicts are under the age of 30 and growing numbers are under the age of 20. Much more recently there has been a veritable epidemic of heroin abuse in those aged 16 years and under. It is interesting to note that there is an increasing use of heroin by affluent white youngsters, both in major cities and in suburbia. One might well ask why this latter group of young privileged Americans should become so addicted. This is not surprising when one considers that wealth and affluence produce, to a large extent, a sensate society. 

 Sir Thomas Brown, when dealing with this social problem, stated that the race of delight is short. He pointed out that, to maintain the pleasure principle, one thrill must replace another in unceasing succession. It is inevitable that, where drugs become freely available, they will form an intrinsic part of the search for kicks or, as it is more often regarded, the 'cult of experience'. Heroin gives a feeling of pleasurable lassitude and relaxation. Cocaine gives sexual stimulation. Tranquillisers and sedatives frequently produce a feeling of calm and serenity. Amphetamines increase awareness of a variety of individual physical sensations and, of course, the old LSD severs the norma] barriers to simultaneous perception permitting the mind to be bombarded with sensory stimuli. So it is obvious that with this trend these young people have, with rapidity, succumbed to this cult of experience. 
In undertaking this avenue of research our criminologists, I think, should cooperate closely with our sociologists in order to restore the family unit both in congested areas and in the affluent suburban areas of this country. We see the beginnings of the deterioration of the family, and this could well explain many of the ills of our society for here, perhaps, is the primary tragedy of the 20th century. I have referred to  Mr Big  in the narcotic trade - the profit maker who operates no doubt in an aura of respectability. It is interesting to note that his methods of distribution have somewhat changed. The old concept of the venal purveyor of drugs waiting outside the school yard to entice some unsuspecting youngsters into the ravages of drug taking is today, and has been for quite some time, a totally incorrect concept. Today many factors conspire to introduce these youngsters to drug taking. It is usually the drug user who makes other drug users. 
The motion picture industry in its present degenerate condition has played  its  part. Two recent motion pictures entitled The Love Ins' and 'The Trip' have exploited the drug taking theme. In the United States of America there are in addition sleazy underground newspapers devoted to protests, attacks on law enforcement agencies and the promotion of the use of psychedelic drugs, especially marihuana and LSD. Some of these are the Berkeley Barb', the 'Los Angeles Free Press', the 'East Village Other' and the Oracle', to mention just a few of them. We have to add to this the sick condition of modern song writers. It is interesting to note that at one point in 1967 a survey of the top 40 pop records disclosed that 16 of them contained a positive drug message. To any of the hip group the words 'my senses have been stripped' in Bob Dylan's song "The Tambourine Man' are an obvious drug reference. Another obvious contribution is 'Smoke Rings of my Mind'. Then, of course, we have the appalling situation where members of such groups as The Rolling Stones and the Beatles frankly admit drug taking. Of course, we all know that the Beatles have been awarded M.B.E.s. It is all very impressive. 
It is impossible to determine what influence these people have on our youngsters. So these are the pressures that have 
11802/71-  R.3 
to be analysed and the problems that have to be tackled by our criminologists in their research work. Their task will not be assisted by those who, with ever-increasing intensity, will agitate for legalising the socalled soft drugs, such as marihuana. Before I deal with this matter of marihuana, I should like to look at the statistics regarding drug offences in Australia. They are rather startling. There were 82 offences in 1964, 125 offences in 1965, 276 offences in 1966, 233 offences in 1967, 480 offences in 1968 and 1,081 offences in 1969. Honourable members will note that there were 82 known offences in 1964 and 1,081 offences in 1969. In other words, in a period of 6 years there was an increase of approximately 1,000 offences - from the small figure of 82 to 1,081. These were the known offenders. The number of offenders who are unknown would probably have increased by a ratio commensurate with the increase in known offenders. Let us look at the matter of marihuana. I refer to the comments of  Mr Bob  Bartlett, an American who has founded 7 teenage treatment establishments in Philadelphia where teenagers who have become addicted to drugs are treated.  Mr Bartlett,  a man of tremendous experience, said: 
The tragedy in the United States is that those who could have made a difference pretended there wasn't a problem until it was too late. Children as young as 10 and 11, marihuana and heroin addicts, went to the Philadelphia centres. Drug taking has reached epidemic proportions but in the last eight months there has been a reevaluation among the young people. So many kids have died from overdoses. 
Now here is the crunch: 
There's a lot of pressure in the US to legalise marihuana but the outspoken ones know nothing about the drug. 

 Mr Bartlett said that the pressure for legalisation came mainly from people with leftist leanings. We do not have to be told that. People who were outspoken on the Vietnam war and social issues also were outspoken on marihuana.  Mr Bartlett  said that there was a drug problem in Sydney. He said: 
Gls I talked to in Sydney said it was as easy to get marihuana there as in Saigon. 
Let me now quote some comments by no less worthy a person than  Dr Wesley  Hall, the President-elect of the American Medical Association. This might be hurting some members of the Opposition who are trying to interject. Apparently they go along with the legalising of marihuana and I am hurting their sensitivities. I cannot help that.  Dr Hall  said that marihuana smoking could cause impotence and birth defects. He told a news conference that the American Medical Association's study would show a higher incidence of impotence among marihuana smoking males and an unusual number of birth defects and mental deficiencies in the babies of marihuana smoking mothers. He predicted that when the report was released the use of marihuana would decline.  Dr Hall  said: 
We know marihuana is a dangerous drug. For instance, the report will show that a15 or 16- year-old girl who has smoked marihuana for a few years has a much higher chance of having a baby with birth defects and mental deficiencies. 
If they are not 2 of the greatest indictments of marihuana, 1 do not know what further evidence is required. If this research is to be done on a highly organised basis, as this very excellent Bill indicates it will be, one of the most urgent tasks that should be undertaken by this group of criminologists isto have a very close look at the incidence of drug taking in Australia and to deal ruthlessly with those who are responsible for the wholesale distribution of hard drugs in this country. No lesser penalty should be provided in such cases than that which would apply in the case of a capital offence. Even then we would be letting them off lightly in this country where the maximum penalty for a capital offence is life imprisonment. These people are responsible for the slow deaths of so many people who start off innocently and soon become gripped by this terrible drug scourge. These offenders should be shown no mercy. It is the responsibility of the Government to see that one of the major matters discussed by the group of criminologists is the incidence of drug abuse in this country. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry confer with his colleague, the Minister for Education and Science, with the object of having the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation investigate the pest control method of genetic self-destruction, recently perfected by Professor Hannes Laven at the Genetics Institute, of Mainz University in West Germany and examine the possibility of applying the same method of control towards the eventual elimination of the beef industry's greatest scourge, the cattle tick? 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is in the House and I am sure that in time he will answer the remarks just made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  In the dying phases of his grievance speech the honourable member suggested that junior Ministers are appointed to this particular portfolio. It is a junior Ministry. But let us just look at the Ministers who have held this portfolio in the last 4 or 5 years. We had the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Would anyone suggest for a moment that he is a man lacking in ability, intensity or dedication? Then we had the present Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who was acclaimed even by members of the Opposition. They told me that they considered "him a very astute, sincere and able Minister. I am sure that the present Minister will prove that he is equally capable, if he is given the time. 
I am going to speak on a subject on which I have spoken again and again in this House. I do not propose to cease speaking on it until we see some solution to the drastic and dreadful situation which exists in the outback areas of the electorate of Kennedy. I refer to the present situation which has resulted from drought and the declining and shrinking wool prices. The present intention of my few words is to draw attention to the appeal made by the Queensland Premier to the previous Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  when he rang him, not as a dramatic gesture but with complete sincerity, to point out that the situation, in those areas in one of disaster. It is not the fault of the grazier as I have said so often. Honourable members should travel through those areas, mix with the people, talk with them and see the situation in which they find themselves. Businessmen and tank sinkers are wondering what they are going to do with the men who have stood four square with them year after year. The local authorities are wondering how they are going to maintain employment in these areas. 
Unless an extremely realistic and urgent solution is offered we will see the present way of life crumbling out in that part of the country. I for one, and most of the people involved, will not stand by and see that happen. Admittedly, a tremendous contribution has been made by the $100m for rural reconstruction. I was asked for a Press comment when that grant was announced and when the announcement was made that SI 6m would be made available for Queensland. The first question I was asked was: Do you consider the amount enough to meet the situation? No amount will be enough unless it can offer a realistic solution to each and every person involved who will meet the guidelines laid down by the Rural Reconstruction Board. I consider that the formula is this: Firstly, there must be enough money available if it is going to be realistic and if it is going to produce a solution. Secondly, when incomes are restored there must be a close study of the problem by the Commissioner of Taxation and the Treasurer to see that the burden placed on these people will not keep them down forever. Thirdly, perhaps the most important aspect is that the aid must be applied with great urgency. It is encouraging to see that there has been a greatly accelerated interest in decentralisation. We have heard a lot about this quite recently. I would like to think about decentralisation and de-urbanisation. If I have the opportunity I will talk on this subject again in this House. 
What is happening is the reverse process. To be realistic we must put the brakes on this drift to the cities which, as we know, is happening all over the world. The greatest contribution that can be made at present is to prevent the crumbling of the wool industry and all that is associated with it, particularly in the inland areas of Queensland. This will be the most realistic and most urgent contribution that can be made to decentralisation. We will have to start miles behind scratch unless the present situation is brought to a halt. 
The next matter I should like to discuss concerns television installations in my electorate of Kennedy. What I say will no doubt apply to other remote areas of Australia. Of course, my particular concern is my own electorate. I am very pleased to say that 14 of the 38 new stations over the whole of the nation will be in the area that I represent. I have written time and again, I have spoken in this House and I have conferred personally with the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in an attempt to obtain some precise information on when the people might expect these installations. I am deeply grateful to the PostmasterGeneral for the actual provision of these stations. I know that he is dependent on advice received from the Broadcasting Control Board and his technicians. Of course, I arn told, as most of us are told, that these matters are being looked into, certain' tests have to be made in the areas, technical requirements have to be met and so on. 
Let me say this - and I ask the Postmaster-General to take it to heart - I believe that be should issue an instruction, clear and concise and without any qualifications, that absolute priority in this field should be given to the provision of television installations in these remote areas. I think particularly of the central western part of Queensland. What wonderful people they are there. They never offer a word of complaint. For years and years they have been without this amenity and have seen 3 and 4 stations installed in the city areas. They hear talk of colour television; but, although they do not have any sort of reception at all, they do not offer a word of complaint. Then I think of the central highlands. It is little wonder that the people there are disturbed. They receive some sort of television, which is probably more irritating than not having it at all. They see at Blackwater the Utah Construction Company put in a translator in a flash to give improved television services to its area. I say that what a private company can do this Government most certainly should do. 
So, I ask the Postmaster-General to issue a concise and clear instruction to his technicians and to those to whom he has to look for advice, telling them that they are  to  give absolute priority to these installations. This is the substance of decentralisation: Facing up fairly and squarely to the fact that these people lack any sort of amenity and they are entitled at least to what is now regarded as part of our daily lives. Whether we call it the idiot box or anything else, it is available, with 4 channels in most city areas and 2 channels in most provincial areas. My people are entitled to one channel, and they are entitled to it without delay. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. As most of the wool growers I represent have suffered to an extreme degree from both drought and the present hopeless condition of the market, and as they cannot diversify or survive on present wool prices, they naturally wonder what the future holds for them. Will the Minister indicate whether any rise in wool prices may reliably be expected, which would help to restore the economy of an industry which is so vital to this nation's economy? 
I would like firstly to bring to the attention of the House the tactics that are used to an extreme degree by members of the Opposition. They are highly organised. They are now members of a very wealthy organisation, particularly in Queensland. They are able to organise a particularly clinical kind of operation, but the regrettable part of this is that in the process they use pensioners and Arboringals as guinea pigs. The Australian Labor Party has a most deplorable record in regard to pensioners and Aboriginals. Let me make one or two points perfectly clear. The first point I want to make is that no-one - more particularly myself, in view of what 1 am about to mention a little further in my address - would suggest for a moment that the amount paid to pensioners is adequate. Frankly, I think pensioners must be the greatest managers of all times because they are able to manage on the pension made available to them. 
Honourable members opposite spoke about crocodile tears. The greatest example of hypocrisy of which I think any group of men would be capable is the operation that honourable members opposite use as regards the pensioners. What they do - I was referring to this clinical operation - is to propose an amendment to increase the pension by Si or $2 a week. They could make the amount S20 because they know that the amendment will not be carried. So, they can offer the world. What do they do after the amendment is defeated? Those fellows who sit on the benches opposite - one bushy-haired chap and a group of them who sit over there - get their staff to go immediately into action. They circularise every pensioner's branch throughout Australia. For instance, they send a message to Chartres Towers - a great pensioner town. They say: 'This Bob Katter, this so-called advocate for the pensioners, voted against the amendment'. If they think I intend to be a political hypocrite and if they think I intend to use the pensioners, whom they no doubt imagine as being senile and as being unable to evaluate these things for themselves, they are very much mistaken. I think that they need to learn honesty in politics. The result of their operations in my electorate was that in almost every pensioner town I increased my majority considerably because pensioners despise these tactics of the so-called ALP. 
Let us look for a moment, if we can ignore the comments of the abominable snowman who is trying to interject from the opposite side of the chamber, at the figures for 1949. The rate paid to a widow with children was what would correspond to $4.75. The value of that $4.75 in 1949 would, in terms of today's monetary evaluation, be $11.54. These are facts. If they are not facts, let honourable members opposite produce another  speaker  to refute them. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is prompted by his previous answer. It concerns recent statements relating to Australia's overseas wheat trade, this country's defence policy and diplomatic relations with Peking China. Does the Prime Minister recollect similar circumstances some years ago concerning Australia's relations with Russia after the split in the Australian Labor Party? Does the Prime Minister see a similarity in approach between the message recently sent to Chou En-lai and the infamous Molotov letter of  1955?  Do not both these approaches represent the politics of desperation which is unacceptable to the Australian concept of patriotism? 
To any thinking person it would be ridiculous and unacceptable that whenever the word Communism' is mentioned honourable members on the other side of the House say: 'There they go again on the Red bogey'. I issue a challenge to members of the Opposition: Let anyone of them rise in his seat and indicate when he has ever defended the role of our troops in Vietnam. Let any member on the other side of the House say when he has ever uttered one word of commendation of the United States of America or when he has ever done anything but speak in the way in which honourable members from the Opposition have spoken tonight. To hear members speak one would imagine that we already had diplomatic relations with Red China. Each and every one of the speeches that were made tonight could have been a speech of an ambassador from Communist China. 
I remember Clarrie Fallon, a great leader of the Australian Workers Union, who wrote a series of articles called, I think, Out of the Night'. He said that the technique of future intrusion of Communism into this country would be the 'destruction of patriotism'. 1 challenge honourable members on the other side of the House to indicate when they have ever waved, as it were, an Australian flag in their hearts and in their spirits. All that they have done tonight has been to stand up one after another and defend Communist China.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will remember well, no doubt, as will other honourable members of this House, that the same group of people over here - - 
Not so very long ago- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! If the honourable member for Sturt wishes to raise a point of order I suggest that he do so. 
It is with a great deal of reluctance that I commence my few words on a personal note. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  found fit, in today's 'CourierMail', to set himself up as my judge and jury. So I now propose to make a few comments in regard to this same gentleman. One of the subjects much discussed in Queensland at present is the sad, almost tragic, change so evident in the political attitudes of the honourable member for Dawson. The many country people in his electorate who once regarded him as their champion, as one who genuinely believed in a Canberra awareness of the necessity to populate and develop northern and remote areas, now see their  Dr Jekyll  exposed as a very shabby  Mr Hyde.  Once regarded as a moderate, he, like others in his Party, is suffering from front bench compulsion. He is now as much a left wing disciple of foreign ideologies as so many others in his Party - but there is a difference. Men like the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  have been consistent and completely honest in their convictions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Is the honourable member for Sturt raising a point of order? 
That the honourable member for Kennedy bt not further heard. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The honourable member for Dawson has degenerated into a complete opportunist, far more interested in preserving his seat on the front bench than genuinely serving the interests of his rural electorate. If this is not so or if I am at all exaggerating the position, let him declare loud and clear where he stands on the question of one vote one value. As a further clear proof of his constantly seeking political opportunity, this darling of the 
Press issues a challenge to me to apologise for what has been alleged was an insult to certain Western European countries. Here again is that left-wing sensitivity of these people opposite. Does anyone in this House for one moment imagine that the honourable gentleman is concerned regarding the feelings of these countries? Not one bit. Because he has been so- 
Because he has been so brain-washed and regimented, any word uttered to support the Americans- 
May I say that I will continue to respect the opinions which you have just given,  Mr Speaker.  I did say before you resumed the Chair that I very much regretted doing this but that the honourable member for Dawson had set himself up as my judge and jury in the Press today throughout Australia and I felt I had the right to at least make some comments in regard to it. 
I was going to say that the honourable member has been so brainwashed and regimented that any word uttered to support the Americans and the stand they have made with us and others is to be utterly opposed. In addition he imagines that he might stimulate some sort of Katter to the guillotine' movement. 
I now propose to give, very briefly, the facts of what occurred last Saturday, and the best part of 100 people can very easily confirm what I relate. As guest  speaker  at the State Conference of the Young Australian Country Party at Yeppoon - a lovely spot, a pity it is not in the electorate of Kennedy - I, as always, did my best to present to these delightful young people serious questions, but in a manner I think they appreciate, with levity, a little hilarity, and here and there an Australian colloquialism. My subject was 'The American People and Polities', based on my 3 months experience in the United States of America at the United Nations. I might mention that that subject was suggested to me by the Young Australian Country Party. I of course dealt with the matter of the Vietnam commitment. In the process I drew attention to the USA with ourselves and other small countries standing alone against an obvious threat to our future security in South East Asia. 
The message I tried to get across is that we have a West European bloc which should be cohesive and that the situation would have been very different in Vietnam had a united front been presented when the Communist aggression, terror and bloodshed began. Then I went on - and this is where the Australian vernacular came in - to indicate that it is a mongrel sort of an attitude, meaning, as every single person in that room clearly understood, not standing by your mates. Never did I intend to call the people of Britain, 
France, Holland and Sweden mongrels, and any impartial person with the slightest degree of commonsense knows this. Let me say here and now, as I have said publicly time and again during election campaigns and over the air, that I have the greatest admiration for the British people. I have expressed regret that these people, who produced a special brand of courage and tenacity during the last great war, should be suffering the economic ills and difficulties so prevalent in recent years. - As well as Britain, I have visited the other countries mentioned and mixed with their representatives at the United Nations: They are grand people. I pay tribute to them. Each has made contributions to and sacrifices for the progress of the world and its people. Having said this, I cannot under any circumstances alter my attitude and that is the unalterable Australian claim that a man must stick with his mates. The intrusion of Communist physical and idealogical conflict into our areas meant we wanted our mates to declare that they would stand with us. In their wisdom they chose to do otherwise. They have the right to their own attitude towards the Vietnam war, whether it be right or wrong. We were committed to it; we needed our mates. 
(Quorum formed) I do not propose to speak for more than a few minutes but I will deal with one aspect of the disastrous situation which exists in Queensland. The people in the area to which I will refer will accept with open arms the rural reconstruction fund which will soon become available. However, in considering the general situation of the rural industry, it is my duty to spotlight more especially the areas involved in the inland part of Queensland. In those areas there is a conspiracy of 3 factors. Firstly, there was the disastrous drought which went on for years and was broken only recently; secondly, there is the remoteness of these areas and, thirdly, there is the productivity of these areas, which are in the more arid zones. Therefore, we have a group of people who are involved in the general economic situation in rural industry which I think is far more disastrously affected than is any other rural section in Australia. 
At the outset, I would like to pay a tribute to the Ministers who have been concerned enough to go constantly into these areas and to examine the problems on the spot. I refer to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  whom the Prime Minister more recently sent into the area. It is rather interesting to examine the particular operation that occurred last Monday week. In the Longreach area, there is a group of people who call themselves a survival group. Believe you me, the group is just that. In this interesting operation, all sections of the community of the central western area, including local authorities, graziers, business people in the towns affected and the Australian Workers Union have combined to form this survival group. I know that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  is not particularly interested in this. He is more interested in disrupting this House. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the residents of the State of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That unless the Australian Government place a statutory reserve price, at no less than the basic cost of production, on the sale of wool, the operation of the Wool Commission and the Rural Reconstruction Board will be of no long term benefit. 
That the drastic economic conditions of the wool industry have a direct bearing on the small businessmen in towns in wool areas and consideration should be given to them sharing in the $30m wool grant. 
That the wool industry by collaborating with manufacturers of other fibres should raise and maintain the general level of prices for all fibres therefore stimulating demand. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that: 
The Government set a statutory reserve price on the sale of- wool, assist small businessmen in towns in wool areas and encourage collaboration between the wool industry and manufacturers of other fibres in order to stimulate demand for wool. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry, concerns a matter of the utmost importance to the economy of this nation and in a special way to the economy of the great electorate of Kennedy which I represent. Can the Minister give the House an indication of how the new United States import surcharge of 10 per cent will affect Australia's exports of minerals and metals to the United States? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to comment on the reference that has been made to the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid).  Many of us who know this man's experience, his dedication and his understanding of the problems of the Indian sub-continent are looking forwarding to his contribution which I understand will be made in the debate on the statement given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  We will have an opportunity to hear him speak for 20 minutes, not for the limited time of 10 minutes which would have been available to him in this debate. I think we can look forward to that with a good deal of anticipation. 
There is much to say regarding the contributions that have been and are continuing to be made, either on the basis of making contributions or of making initiatives to foster peace not only in the Indian sub-continent but throughout South East Asia, that it would take much longer than 10 minutes to list them and to evaluate them. I suppose I had a rather unique opportunity of hearing the general spectrum of opinion about the initiatives that we have made over the years in this sphere. I am very proud to say that the first time I stood on the rostrum of the United Nations was to announce Australia's contribution to the Special Committee for Refugees, and that contribution more than compared with similar contributions made by many other countries. 
It may interest honourable members .to know that constant reference was made by delegates at the United Nations to the fact that they thought of Australia as being a developing nation and that this demand upon us was far in excess of our capacity. It might be well to remember that we have disasters on this continent, not that I would detract for one moment from the humane requirements of the disaster area in East Pakistan. However, let us just look for a moment at one or two of the headings under which we are providing assistance and, if you like, initiatives for peace. 
What are initiatives for peace? lt is rather interesting to look at the type of peace we are talking about. Is it peace at any price? Is it peace at the expense of the institutions and ideologies which have been built up over the centuries to the present stage of Western democracy? Should they suddenly be scrapped and should we make initiatives for peace on any basis? Not for me, not for members on this side of the House. Twenty-five million dollars is to be made available to Vietnam over 3 years. We also support the Colombo Plan which very much involves the sub-continent of India. 
Honourable members opposite have brought this item forward as a matter of importance. They will- have another one tomorrow, and another on the next day. It will be brought forward on either an emotional basis or some shabby political basis. Honourable members opposite will bring them forward, we will anticipate them and we will meet them. I would like to refer to the appreciation of the various nations of South East Asia, particularly the people of India and Pakistan, of the aid supplied by this great country. It is of no credit to members of the Opposition that this image has been retained, because they have at various times attempted to shatter this image. I remember well the attack made on our diggers over that shabby business of a girl having a glass of water thrown down her throat. Never at any stage did members of the Opposition refer to the fact that this particular spy had been responsible for either the death or mutilation of 28 Australian soldiers. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Cotton growers throughout Australia, particularly in the Kennedy electorate where cotton has developed into a major industry, will have noted that the Treasurer's Budget Speech made no reference to a continuation of bounty payments on raw cotton production. Could the Minister advise me of the results of my representations on behalf of growers in my area for a continuation of bounty at the rate of $3m a year for the next 5 years? 
At a time when our traditional and even historical alliances are, to say the least, less effective than in the past, I think we should for a few minutes study some international occurrences other than those involved in the complex question of Communist China. A real danger exists that the intense focus of world attention on the alleged new receptive attitudes of Chou and Mao might suggest that other events in the Asian and South East Asian areas are of little significance. This would be a fatal miscalculation and a condition of complacency that could well sell out the security of this nation. I do not propose to add to the thoughts of  Chairman  Mao my views of the Communist question. I would just like to comment on what happened at the United Nations last year and on the possibilities this year. I am very pleased to see that the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls),  my colleague during our visit to the United Nations, is in the chamber. I am sure he would agree that never was there so much drama, never such an intense atmosphere, as existed for a couple of weeks prior to a vote being taken on whether Communist China should be admitted to the United Nations. It was quite an experience to be there at that time. 
On 20th November 1970 the United Nations General Assembly voted for the twentieth consecutive year, excepting 1964, on the admission of the People's Republic of China. Last year for the first time the draft resolution gained a simple majority. This of course was drama at its highest. The draft resolution urges the Assembly to restore to the People's Republic of China all its rights and to recognise the representatives of its Government as the only law ful representatives of China at the United Nations. It also calls upon the United Nations to expel forthwith the representatives of Chiang Kai-shek from the places which they are said to occupy unlawfully at the United Nations, and from all related organisations. Those are of course the terms of the Albanian resolution. 
The General Assembly in 1961 decided that any proposal to change the representation of China was to be classified as an important question and as such would require a two-thirds majority before any decision on the subject be taken. Last year when the honourable member for Bonython and I were at the United Nations the vote on the proposal for the admission of the People's Republic of China was 51 in favour, 49 against and 25 abstentions. It is interesting to note that in 1969 the vote was 48 in favour, 56 against and 21 abstentions. On the proposal that the subject be regarded as an important question the vote was 66 in favour, 52 against and 7 abstentions. The moral of the story is in the whittling away of the numbers of those countries who had decided to oppose irrevocably the admission of Communist China to the United Nations. It was quite evident, I would say, that the feeling throughout the corridors of the United Nations was that there were people who were quite undecided. One rather felt that this would flow over into 1971 and that many of those who had abstained in 1970 no doubt would be faced with this proposition: Should they vote for the admittance of Communist China to the exclusion of Taiwan? Here was the crunch. 
However, I should like to deal now with the China question in the United Nations and the possibilities of what may happen this year in the General Assembly which will commence on 20th September. The forthcoming debate in the next General Assembly session on the question of the seating of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations promises to be one of the most complex. This is stating the obvious. The prospect for China's admission are the best so far but the outcome is by no means a foregone conclusion. Let this be well remembered because there will be intense lobbying to support the continued seating of Taiwan in the United Nations. One of the subjects of discussion will be China's admission to the Security 
Council because one must keep in mind that if Communist China does take a prominent seat in the Security Council, perhaps to the temporary exclusion of Taiwan, forever and a day China could veto the readmittance of Taiwan. On one issue China has ample support and that is that it should be admitted to the General Assembly, but the main obstacle at present is the seating of Taiwan and the further issue of which country shall sit in the Security Council. 
There has recently been a big swing in favour of Communist China but there is still strong support for maintaining Taiwan's seat in the General Assembly, although it does seem certain that, if Communist China gets into the United Nations, it will be awarded a seat in the Security Council also. Despite the substantial shift in the position of the United States and other countries, including Australia, Peking still resolutely insists that it alone should have the seat and that Taiwan, which it considers a province of China, should be expelled from the United Nations. There has been a considerable amount of talk in the United States and in Australia about finding a compromise solution which will enable both the People's Republic of China and the Taiwan Government to be members of the General Assembly. However, the basic difficulty is that both of these governments claim to be the government of China and are accordingly constituted. 
In the case of Communist China it seems very unlikely that the Government would be prepared to accept the terms of a resolution which also provided for the seating of the Government of Nationalist China. At this moment the Government of Peking continues to insist that it alone must have United Nations membership. Here is rather a remarkable thing. From my discussions at the General Assembly with delegates from various countries, if I remember correctly, there was not one who did not agree that here was the first case in history where a country set down its own conditions for admittance to the United Nations by saying: 'I will become a member of this great family of nations provided you meet my requirements'. This is rather a staggering thing. At this moment, the government in Peking continues to insist that it alone must have United Nations membership, but that at a later stage it might be possible for a formula to be accepted by both Peking and Taipei, which provides for the continued seating of Formosa but specifically as a government with political and territorial responsibility expressly confined to the island of Formosa and perhaps some surrounding islands. 
The thought that is occupying the minds of those who are looking for a compromise is that Taiwan may have its own seat in the United Nations, not specifically for its own islands but that it may build up a small family of islands under the control of the Nationalist Chinese Government. As things stand, both Peking and Taipei claim to be the government of China and it is very difficult to see how both would be accepted as members of the United Nations on their own terms or how they themselves could accept this arrangement. In short, the position is that, although China's chances of getting into the United Nations are better than ever this year, whether it actually becomes a member or accepts membership depends essentially upon what sort of compromise formula can be worked out in the course of the Assembly debate. Those remarks were merely a prelude to some of the points that T wish to make. Other sections of my speech are of sufficient importance to occupy considerable time and I will carry those over to the Budget debate. 
I shall conclude on this point: It was rather remarkable at the United Nations that those who were to the forefront, supporting the entry of Communist China, were considered to be among those who were the most vitriolic and who had completely ignored the appeal that had been made by U Thant and the  President  of the General Assembly that the 25th Anniversary meeting was to be a General Assembly of peace. This was utterly ignored by countries such as Albania and others who with vitriolic outbursts and with complete disregard for anyone's sense of loyalties or traditional loyalties claimed that Communist China should be admitted to the United Nations and that Taipei should be thrown on the scrap heap. This was unacceptable to about 90 per cent of the countries represented. As I said before, there will be great drama on the East River in New York from 20th September onwards. 
Like the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  I rise with a measure of confusion as a result of the unpredictability of this place. I had prepared a Budget address which includes much of what I am about to say. However, I will repeat these remarks in my Budget address because I think that the subjects with which I will deal are of immense importance. May I commence by saying that I do realise that, probably of all Ministers in Cabinet and in our Ministry generally, no-one has a more demanding job and receives more continuous representations than the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I suppose we must face up to the fact that he personally in many cases would like to see things happen that are just not happening. 
I wish to speak for a moment first on the question of radio and television facilities in the rural areas of our great, sprawling nation. I refer to the remarks by the Postmaster-General in his second reading speech in which he indicated that the deterioration in regard to the financial situation within his Department was due to the mounting wage costs flowing from arbitration awards. Salaries for technicians have risen by 29 per cent since June 1968. Another factor was the development of the Darwin booster station for Radio Australia. The final point - and this is the one on which I wish to concentrate - is the cost of the extension of television and television translator services to the lesser populated country areas. We were delighted when the Postmaster-General anounced a few years ago that 38 translator stations were to be provided for the rural areas, of which 14 were to be placed in the electorate I represent, in which the city of Mt Isa is located. Months and years have gone by and honourable members will understand why many people in my electorate are becoming extremely agitated because the provision of these stations is not yet in sight. In case I appear to be parochial I point out that my comments are equally relevant to other similar areas throughout Australia. However, every man to his own responsibilities. 
I am immensely grateful that 4 of these stations have been installed. In addition we have seen the establishment of a commercial station in Mt Isa; but central western Queensland and the central highlands are still awaiting the additional stations and there is no prospect of them in sight. Television was provided in the capital cities and provincial cities of Australia IS years ago. I do not mind if my remarks are taken as reflecting a parochial attitude or a limited outlook. I may be called the hick of the House but that means little to me. What I say I mean. What I am about to suggest has not happened anywhere in the world but I believe that it should be part of an intensive drive to establish decentralisation in this nation. If there were a full appreciation of the fact that country areas have little else in the way of amenities and  a  true appreciation of the importance of de-urbanisation - I use that term for the benefit of honourable members who do not want to hear about decentralisation - much more would be done for the people in country areas. In Sydney recently the servicing of the sewerage system broke down. One newspaper said that had the failure continued a plague could have resulted. All over the world the densely populated areas are creating immense problems. Could it not be reasonably expected in these circumstances that every effort would be made to keep people away from the crowded cities? It is a strange thing that when people become settled in country areas they have no desire to go back to the thickly populated urban areas. 
I have always claimed that television should have been provided in country areas before it was provided in the city areas. I may be ridiculed for making that statement, but I accept the risk. The months and years have gone by, but television has not yet been provided in the central highlands and central western areas of Queensland. I strenuously urge Cabinet - by heavens, not the Postmaster-General because I have urged him monthly, year in and year out - seriously to study this matter. Quite legitimate reasons have been put forward for the delay; for example there is only so much money to be spent and technicians are not readily available. If we are to see any sort of reasonable time programme - and I would say a reasonable time for installation would be tomorrow - other sources must be looked to in order to raise special finance for the purpose. Advertisements should be placed overseas for technicians. That is done for school teachers and medical personnel. However, I will get back to that subject in a moment. 
Turning now to other services, people in country areas are to pay a considerably increased radio licence fee, and the same television licence fee as is paid by people who live in cities served by 4 television channels. Two channels are available in many provincial cities and 4 are available in the capital cities. The country areas which have television are served by 1 channel and sometimes reception is quite dicey because of storm interference and distance. There has been much discussion and conjecture about the effective range of country television stations. I have made it my business to check very carefully and I have found that reception is excellent up to 30 miles from most country towns where television transmitters are operating. One property about 37 miles, from my home town of Cloncurry has quite adequate television reception; that is in billy, metallic country which is not particularly conducive to perfect television reception. 
I plan to be quite parochial in discussing television charges. I think I can safely claim that there was never a time in the history of this country when people in rural areas were less able to meet increased costs. Honourable members who represent areas similar to that which I represent will concede that no areas in Australia has been so drastically affected economically as the far western area of Queensland. I will reinforce that point. The people there have had years of continuing drought. They grow wool and they cannot diversify. If that is not a formula for utter economic disaster I do not know what is. We have been stressing several points over a number of years but I do not know that we have made very much progress. Certain concessions have been granted and we do not deny that for a moment. 
However, 1 believe that in one move the Government could gain the approbation of all the people affected in rural areas; that would be by approving of a local call charge to the nearest business centre. That is the whole crunch of the economic difficulties in regard to an effective service. 1 will illustrate what I mean by an effective service. People living in town can ring the baker to order bread and perhaps he will deliver it. We have said this time and again and it is no less true now. In a country area if you want to order a couple of loaves of bread by telephone it is probably necessary to have an extension. As from 1st October it will possibly cost 80c to order a couple of loaves of bread which are worth about 40c. That is a homely example of what happens on a far greater scale. 
Country people will be very reluctant to use their telephones in future. The telephone service is expected to contribute to the development of this country. People are advised to go to the inland areas and live there in contentment, but the telephone service is getting beyond the reach of the average person in inland areas. I wish the Postmaster-General could persuade his advisers to agree to give local call charges to the nearest business centre a trial period of, say, 6 months. I very much doubt that there would be much drop in revenue. If local call charges are applied to the nearest business centre the wires will be burning up with calls and there will be greatly increased revenue. 
I turn now to a much more , serious matter that is affecting people in the rural areas and particularly in Mt Isa. In many country areas in Queensland and elsewhere people are told that they can expect to have a telephone installed in 1, 2, 3 or more years, but not in the foreseeable future. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett), Senator Lawrie  and 1 had a long discussion with the  Deputy  Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Brisbane. In a very clear and reasonable manner the difficulties were pointed out to us and I again refer to them now. They are lack of finance and a shortage of technicians to carry out installations. We are not arguing about that, but we say that a solution must be found. Surely one would not expect reasonable people to be told that they may receive a telephone in 1, 2, 3 or more years. 1 wish to refer to the settlers in the brigalow areas. The brigalow scheme is a great scheme designed to open up and develop land. It has become popular these days not to refer to development. This might be all right. We do not want to increase the acreage of wheat or of cane but there are other industries which could be developed, particularly the beef cattle industry. As I will mention in my speech on the Budget, by 1980 it is expected that there will be a shortage of 185,000 head of cattle for the Western European market, not to mention other countries. We cannot stifle development in the beef cattle industry. Perhaps I will be accused of stimulating development to a saturation point in this industry. What are we to do? Are we to close shop and say: 'Australia ceases to be in business'? If that is done this nation will begin to decline in the most serious manner. We will produce the goods and go looking for markets. 
Let me return to the settlers in these brigalow areas. Most of them are in my electorate or in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa! In these areas men and their families live in half a galvanised iron shed. I have said this in this House time and time again and I will continue to say that this is probably the type of pioneer about whom we once wrote poems. These men represent the hard, rugged, down to earth Australian characteristic which could well be lost over the next 25 years unless these problems are attended to. I repeat: They live with their families in one half of a galvanised iron shed. The rest of the galvanised iron shed is used to store their equipment, their implements, their seed and so on. They are happy people but have the feeling of insecurity that comes from not having communication with the neighbouring town. Some of them are 30, 60 to 100 miles from the nearest centre. They do not have a telephone and they have little hope of getting one in the future. 
Let me turn to the flourishing city of Mount Isa. Again I am getting parochial but I think I am in a unique situation. This city provides employment for thousands of our Australians. Even in the shaky, insecure state of the mining share market today this city is outstanding. Everyone looks to the great monumental operation of Mount Isa Mines Ltd as being secure and providing a future for thousands of our Australian workers and providing a great avenue of wealth for this nation. Business people are moving into the city of Mount Isa to provide full services and commodities. The position out there has become quite chaotic. The PostmasterGeneral knows - I have referred it to him again and again - that business people and others are told that they may get a telephone in 1, 2, 3 or more years time but certainly not in the foreseeable future. 
I am sure that  Mr Peterson,  a trader, will not mind my quoting what he said about this matter. He is a public spirited man. An article in 'The North-West Star' reads: 

 Mr Peterson said that his firm had lost  a  $10,000 deal through delays caused by not having a telephone. 
Telephones will become 21st birthday presents in the future',  Mr Peterson  quipped. 
When your child is born you will put his name down so that he can be on the telephone when he turns 21.' 
That might sound a little facetious, but here is a responsible citizen who is so disturbed about the situation that he has gathered together a group of people to form a special organisation to try to place their case more emphatically before the Minister. I discussed this matter fully with  Dr Thomason,  who came to my office in great distress. I will read from another newspaper article: 
More than half Mount Isa's general practitioners could be without telephones next year. 
The story is that the general practitioners of Mount Isa are moving from their present premises into a new building. Their new medical centre is provided with more modern and much more streamlined medical facilities. In a great throbbing, accident prone city such as Mount Isa adequate and readily available medical facilities should be provided. The situation is that the medical practitioners will move into a new building but they have been told that they may not have a telephone for years to come, as there is no cable in the vicinity. This is completely unacceptable. It is intolerable. The newspaper article continues: 

 Dr A. T. Thomason, one of the partners and North West Queensland branch  president  of the Australian Medical Association, said yesterday  that application for telephones cannot be made until the new building has been approved. 
But he said that the centre has unofficially notified the Postmaster-General's Department and approached the member for Kennedy,  Mr R.  C. kattar, to relieve this ridiculous situation'. 
And it would be ridiculous to have more than half of the 7 general practitioners in the town not on the 'phone,' he said. 
This is a most serious situation. I would just as soon get out of this job in a flash unless- 
It is all very well for honourable members opposite; they are not involved. They live in their city areas and they have all the comforts they want. None of them would really know how to tackle a situation of this nature. They never have to face up to it, and they are not really interested. I do most earnestly appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I am trying to get some mates for our Postmaster-General who will stand full square with him and not say: 'We do not have the finance and we do not have the technicians, so we cannot give you a phone for another 4 or 5 years.' A solution has to be found promptly. I say again - I will say it in my speech on the Budget tomorrow, the next day or whenever it might be - that an approach should be made to raise a considerable, significant amount of money from, if you like, the World Bank. I believe that we should advertise for technicians from one end of the world to the other. 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I understand that recently Japan made an announcement relating to beef and veal imports in 1971-72. Will the Minister inform the House as to the nature of the announcement and give some indication of the prospects for our beef and veal exports to the Japanese market? 
The first comment that I want to make is that 1 am rather surprised that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  should refer to prominent identities being backbench members when he himself and so many distinguished members of his Party, including the honourable members for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  were themselves dumped from the Opposition front bench. We are fearful that this could happen to a man whom we all like very much - the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  We would despair if we saw this happen to him. 
I suppose it is to be expected that a Budget speech should deal with national issues and avoid matters of local importance. What I propose to submit to "this House and to this Government admittedly concerns the electorate of Kennedy but let me state quite decisively that their application very much involves the stability and the future of this nation. What is more important they are issues affecting the financial security, the contentment and the daily lives of our people, and generations who may follow them. When one considers the many characteristics, the demands, the dramatic development, the diversity of industries, the deep and cruel economic conditions afflicting certain areas of a 250,000 square mile area such as Kennedy, one rather wonders where to begin. Quite obviously where people are facing appalling financial difficulties they are the ones to suffer most from what I consider to be certain most unacceptable features of this 
Budget. I appreciate that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had tremendous difficulties, perhaps unprecedented conditions, not only on the domestic scene but that he was faced with producing a balanced economy for this nation at a time when international finance was reeling under the battle for currency supremacy. Overall, he has done a good job, but certainly not in regard to matters I now propose to discuss. 
As I have said in this House time an again, the survival of the wool industry was not just a matter of concern for the wool grower and all who depend on him, not just a matter of an exodus from dozens of inland towns throughout Australia, and not just a matter of personal tragedy to those graziers, small businessmen, shearers, station hands and others who pioneered and stood fast with this industry and poured into the Treasury billions of dollars, establishing the financial lifeblood which made, sad to relate, wealthy men of many who have never seen this country and who would not know a min min light from a jackaroo. No, it goes far beyond this disaster; it is a calamity for this nation. If I am over dramatising this matter, let the great city based economists look up from their books, take time off from their computers and answer one question: Is it, or is it not, of importance to preserve an industry which earns from $550m to $850m yearly for this nation, and which represents 20 per cent of our national overseas earnings? What is their suggestion as to how these funds may be replaced? 
Against this background of disaster in one of our rural areas there are great difficulties in many other sections. We have $6m less for the dairy industry, the tapering off of the cotton bounty and greater or lesser difficulties in many other rural sectors. Against this background, Post Office charges were raised. Telephone charges, particularly penalising rural subscribers, were increased. Television and radio licence fees were raised, again hitting in a special manner country people who may, in many cases, receive only one Australian Broadcasting Commission radio station and view one national ABC telecast, frequently both subject to interference because of storms or distance. However, far more serious was the rise in the price of petrol and other fuels. Not only do farmers and graziers have to carry this extra burden with vehicles, implements and equipment which are operating almost continuously, but the family man, the worker, the garage proprietor and contractors also have to drive long distances over bad roads for normal travelling and overland on vacation. 
These rises and others in similar categories come at the worst possible time for country people. What can be done about this situation? I urge the Government immediately to give consideration to zoning rural areas for exemption from these charges. I consider this the most effective way to offer immediate relief. 
I am reluctant to cast any doubts on the effectiveness of the newly introduced operations of the Wool Commission and the added assistance given by the deficiency payment. We had, by every possible means, urged the Government to grant a guaranteed average price of 40c per lb for wool. This did not happen but under certain conditions 36c was approved and generally speaking this was appreciated by the growers. But I have stated time and again, no support for this industry is worth a damn unless it is based on 3 essentials. Firstly, enough finance for commonsense restocking and getting a grower back into business; secondly, bonus payments to be made on the basis that they will not be made immediately in full to the financial house to which the grower is indebted, leaving nothing to get him back into business; and, lastly, he must have long term finance at the lowest possible rate of interest, and when he commences to earn again, taxation payments must be spread over a period to permit him to reconstruct his economy. 
Most important in these considerations, let us not forget the others - the businessmen, the shearing contractors, fencers, tank sinkers and so many others and those who work for them. They are the small forgotten people. If debts are to be settled, let them get first consideration. None of them has financial reserves and I should know because I am one of them. 
I said a little earlier that I do not want to knock in any way the present efforts to assist but I have come to a clear conclusion on what must be done if these efforts do not improve the market situation. I am completely convinced that the world still wants wool. Last year, for instance, the United States of America had on hand 30 million to 40 million articles carrying the woolmark and I was assured that the greater proportion of them would be sold. This is the situation in one country alone and if this condition exists and the market is still flattened, we must acquire the entire wool clip. It is a gamble of $300m to decide once and for all whether this industry is to survive. To my mind it is no gamble at all - we must win. 
At the moment this nation relies heavily on the beef industry. My inquiries, through sources I established in Washington and elsewhere whilst at the United Nations, convinces me that the market prospects for beef are bright and will continue to be secure into the foreseeable future. One current difficulty, of course, is to fill our United States quota. I feel we could be at some disadvantage in future quota discussions if we fail to do so, but the general feeling in the industry is that we will make it. It is interesting to note that during the financial year just completed our exports of beef and veal were valued at $305m. It was suggested by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development a few years ago that there would be a possible deficit of beef amongst member countries - that is, Western Europe, North America, Japan, New Zealand and Australiaof 189,000 tons by 1975, falling to 145,000 tons by 1985. More recently, however, the World Bank submitted that there could be a shortfall in Western Countries of beef supplies of 117,000 tons by 1975 increasing - not falling - to 173,000 tons by 1980, not 1985. So the future looks secure, and will be much more so if we probe into other areas away from our traditional sources. 
Before I turn to other matters, let me make one plea and offer one profound criticism. When, so help me, are we going to learn that this is a drought prone country? There are provisions in this Budget to give further assistance to Queensland for drought relief. This is much appreciated. We know that the Government has established a special drought committee but not one cent appears to have been allocated at this stage for constructive drought mitigation methods. I would point out - and here again I must specifically refer to my own electorate of Kennedy - that the Government gave magnificent support to the construction of the Fairbairn Dam - it is very pleasing to see the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  whose name has been given to that dam, sitting in the House at this time - and soon the Emerald irrigation area will be the centre of a flourishing, expanded, prosperous farming and grazing community. Hopes are high in the central highlands. But what I want to stress is this: Never let it be forgotten that one of the primary considerations when the Dam was approved was that this area would be the fodder bowl for the huge inland grazing areas of Queensland. This must be organised and planned to give this at least as one source of income to the farmers who are there. J speak not only of those who are there but also of those who will be coming in shortly. They must have this assured income. So much for the grazing industry and the need to provide fodder for these inland areas. 
Let me now deal with 2 other industries affected by the Budget - dairying and cotton. I deal first with dairying. There has been a general decline in the size of the dairy industry in Queensland in recent years. Of rural holdings with 20 or more dairy cows there were during the period 1965-66, 11,708; however they declined to a point where during the period 1969-70 there were only 8,372. 
Butter production similarly declined from 33,200 tons in 1965-66 to 18,500 tons in 1970-71. Although producers' unit returns for butter produced in 1970-71 may show considerable improvement on previous years because of lower Australian production and improved export markets, this must be evaluated in the light of a profit return which has been seriously affected by constantly rising costs and years of drought. The marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme has been well accepted in Queensland. Under this scheme provision is made in the Budget for payments to States of $ 11.5m, a rise of $8.4m compared with last year. Expenditure on butter and cheese bounties this year is expected to be almost $40m, about the same as last year. Export prices on current trends may well be higher in 1971 than in 1970. With the announced bounty this will mean stability in producers' returns on expected production of 210,000 tons of butter and 76,000 tons of cheese. In Kennedy many of our people in the Burnett Valley are very much affected by the fortunes of the butter industry and associated dairying activities. We could well see Monto and similar areas become the food bowl for the great developing coalfields of Moura and Blackwater. 1 urge the Government to continue to do everything possible to assist those who have continued on in the industry and who are so important to preserving our rural life and characteristics. 
I turn to the cotton bounty. The Government has considered my representations and those of others in this House who represent cotton areas as well as the industry itself. These representations have called for a continuation of the cotton bounty for another 3 years and that it be increased to about $3m. The original cotton bounty legislation was introduced in this House in 1963. It is true that in the crop year from 1964 to 1971 a total of some $24.8m will have been allocated by the Commonwealth to the support of this important industry. In 1969, the Government announced that from the end of February 1972 the bounty would cease. The reasons given were that the cotton industry has expanded, lt has made good use of bounty and it has now reached self-sufficiency. But is this really the case? I have many growers in the Theodore, Wowan and other adjacent areas who would not agree, and who will provide me with further information which I hope will convince the Government that it should again review- the question of a continued bounty. 
For years,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  both in and out of this Parliament I have pleaded with representatives of successive governments to give consideration to the fact that pensioners living in remote areas have to meet the additional financial burden, the extra cost for foods and services which apply in the country and they do not receive an extra cent to help in this matter. They are the only section of the community so treated. Industrial awards provide site allowances, northern and western allowances, and other concessions to help our workers, in part at least to meet the extra cost of living created by freight charges and other factors. Why not the pensioners? 
I will repeat what 1 have so often said in this House: Pensioners in country and remote areas have additional upsets in such matters as having to leave their homes to travel great distances for special attention. Admittedly such services are free to them, as is their travel, but what about meals, taxis, accommodation and the general anxiety of leaving home? 1 plead with the Cabinet to give very special consideration to a special zone allowance. 
I now turn to the giant mining industry to consider some aspects of how this Budget affects the lives of the people who are involved with it. Here in many cases we have a great new group of pioneers in areas such as Moura and Blackwater. We have the city of Mount Isa, no longer a scattered community of transient workers but now a proud city with a permanent population of 20,000 to 25,000 inlanders, including national groups of people who have come from other countries and who have blended in with our rugged westerners to produce a new and richly endowed character - the 'Mount Isan'. We see the traditional coal mining families, who have remained loyal to an industry and their small town of Blair Athol, when they could have moved on to better homes and to much improved amenities. I hope they are rewarded when the projected development of Blair Athol occurs; no one is more entitled to recognition. 
I realise that State and local governments have their finances strained most severely and we all know that our own Federal Government only has so much to spend. But in my book of rules it is a matter of 'first things first'. Where we have people supporting industries that have helped save this country from what might well have been a great financial crisis, with drought and troubles in the wool and other industries and where we have them going to remote and isolated settlements scattered right across this nation, despite what might be provided by the companies concerned, governments - particularly the Federal Government - must earmark special funds to assist. They must ensure that adequate medical services and housing are available as well as water and roads and all the other things that go with good living in these areas. 
Earlier in this speech I referred to the increased telephone charges. What 1 now wish to discuss is a most serious situation which has arisen in both the rural and urban areas of my electorate and other similar areas throughout Australia. Many of our graziers and farmers, particularly in the newly settled brigalow areas - young men with young families - are told that it might be 2, 3 or 4 years or longer before they have a telephone. The city of Mount Isa is bursting with development, providing this nation with employment for thousands of our people and producing wealth which is greatly assisting Australia to balance its Budget, yet we find the unbelievable situation where businesses cannot get off the ground because once again those prepared to invest in and provide services for our community are told that they cannot get a telephone in the foreseeable future. 
Amongst the many situations placed before me recently, there is none more serious than the possibility that within the next few weeks the majority of the doctors in private practice at Mount isa will be in a building without a telephone because, I am told, there is no cable in the vicinity. This is intolerable. This situation must be corrected without delay. Apart from making constant representations in this matter together with my colleagues, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and  Senator Lawrie,  I had full-scale discussions with the Deputy-Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Brisbane recently. He pointed out that lack of finance and the non-availability of technicians are responsible for this serious situation. So I have asked that this crisis be discussed at Cabinet level. I have asked and urged, and I do so again on the floor of this House, that special funds be raised, by an overseas loan or, by an approach to the World Bank - an extreme measure perhaps - but we have an extreme situation on our hands. And if there is a genuine shortage of technicians the Government should act to advertise overseas as has been done time and time again to attract schoolteachers, doctors and others. 
Now let me for a moment place before this House, and I cannot count how many times the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and others have done so before, a situation where people having few enough amenities available to them have waited now for 15 years for television. The people I represent in the central highlands and the central west of Queensland are fed up to the teeth with the months and months of delay which have passed since it was announced that they were to receive television. They have seen private companies such as in Blackwater provide translators to boost the television signal. Again I am told it is a matter of finance and planning - no technicians. Four channels are available to the cities of Australia; none to most of our people in the areas I have mentioned. 
It is proudly claimed that over 95 per cent of the people in Australia now receive television. Let me say that the remaining 5 per cent have over the years produced a great portion of the wealth and paid more than their share in taxation which helped foot this bill and surely after 15 years they are entitled to the same amenity. Perhaps I have been critical in this address. I do my job as I see it. People must come first. But I would be more than unfair if I were not to conclude my address by asking people to closely examine the record of the Opposition - the mock Labor Party - and recent utterances, conduct and attitude towards people away from cities. It is such that the only man in their ranks who in any way genuinely understands rural problems recently cried out almost in anguish that the performance and decisions at the recent Launceston conference were such that it would be difficult for the Australian Labor Party members in marginal rural seats to bold them at the next election. Do not gloat in this matter. I commend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for his courage. 
Before commencing my remarks on the legislation before us, I would like to associate myself with the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in congratulating the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  on his 25 years of service to this House. If my 5 years' experience with him is any indication I can well understand why he is one of the most respected men in the Opposition. I feel it is necessary - this interests you particularly,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - to refer to some comment which was made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  He referred to a time when it was alleged that some members of the Young Country Party had discussed national service. The honourable member implied that the persons concerned did not have to worry very much because they knew someone who knew someone and hence would not be much worried about being subject to call-up. I strongly urge the honourable member for Capricornia to make known who these particular people are, because whoever gave him this information I would assume would be a damned liar. I make this comment for this reason. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry assure the House that all possible measures will be taken to prevent the entry of synthetic meat into this country and if, as has been claimed, such a product is available here, urgent and decisive steps will be taken to prevent any further supplies from coming into Australia? Should any similar synthetic product be produced in Australia, will the Minister take action to prevent the use of the misleading word 'meat' in the description of this product? 
Will the Minister for Trade and Industry indicate the current position regarding our beef exports to the United States of America? Is it possible to forecast whether we will meet the quota requirements? If not, will the quota negotiations for 1972 be affected in any way? 
First of all I would like to commend the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I think he made quite an important contribution to this debate because in retrospect most of us will agree that there have been 2 contributing factors to the present situation in the wool industry. One of these has been the obvious vulnerability of the present system of selling wool, the auction system with all its now quite obvious weaknesses. The second - and this is terribly important - has been the failure of the retailing aspect of the average woollen article, garment or whatever it might be. It is almost unbelievable that when one wanders into stores in our own country to buy a woollen tie, for instance, one sees only a small number of woollen ties presented in a rather unattractive manner, but literally dozens and dozens of imported ties - usually of inferior quality - made in Italy and France. Hence I do think that the honourable member for Robertson did make an important contribution to the debate. 
Much has been said in this chamber about wool. Many of us on this side of the House who have spent a lifetime in sheep raising areas have in the last few years made every attempt to serve warning on this nation that the crippling conspiracy of drought and poor market conditions would bring Australians giant industry to a crisis point. Five years ago I advocated the raising of Si 00m to sustain growers, and through them inland communities, to prevent the position from deteriorating as it has now done to a situation where the economic vitality of wool areas has been dissipated to a point where the undertakings of a number of our people are quite beyond reconstruction. However that is in the past. We are concerned with the future. We are concerned with the restoration of an industry which still at this time, with all the adverse conditions, is worth probably the best part of $600m to Australia. We are very much concerned with the survival of the splendid people who live and work m the inland areas and who are standing fast in the hope that this economic nightmare will pass and that security and prosperity will return. Any possibility of this would have been out of the question if the Government had not adopted 2 critical measures - the introduction of the 
Australian Wool Commission and the deficiency payments scheme, with which this Bill is concerned. 
It had been hoped that a deficiency payment based on a minimum price of 40c would have been approved, because, as I shall indicate the decline in income and the rise in costs created a situation where almost without exception the wool grower was so heavily in debt that it was thought that with a guaranteed minimum price of 40c for his wool he would barely balance his budget. However the payment will give an average as near as possible to 79.37c per kilo greasy over the whole season for the full clip. This of course is the metric equivalent of 36c per lb. 
As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out in his second reading speech, gross returns from wool declined from $83 9m in 1968-69 to $547m in the season just concluded. During this latter period more than half of all wool growers were estimated to have less than $2,000 on which to live after servicing their debts. When we further consider that over one million Australians are wholly or partly dependent on the wool industry it will be appreciated just how they will be affected by an inevitably reduced standard of living. Hence the urgent and critical necessity for this deficiency payment. For a long time there was harsh criticism in editorials in the Press and in documentaries on television. There was a great upsurge of dissent even over the consideration of a subsidy to the wool industry. But then the message began to get through loud and clear, that if this industry was not restored this country would have to get round the ridges and raise another $600m to help balance its budget. 
In the amendment the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has suggested the introduction of an acquisition scheme. I do not think anyone on this side of the House would completely set aside the possibility of serious consideration of full scale acquisition in the future, but I think it would be just a little stupid at this stage to abandon the scheme which has been accepted and commended by the producer organisations. I do not think we should set it aside before it has really had a fair trial. In the future it may be necessary to consider the full scale acquisition of the wool clip, but for the moment I think the sensible and reasonable thing to do is to give the twin approach that has been adopted, that is the operation of the Australian Wool Commission and the deficiency payment scheme, at least a fair trial. 1 have said in the House quite often and I say again with complete conviction that I do not think there are any areas in the whole of the Commonwealth more seriously afflicted by the present situation in the wool industry than are the far western areas of the electorate of Maranoa and the western areas of the electorate of Kennedy. There is a special reason for this. In these areas we have had continuing drought conditions over a period of 10 to 14 years. This is no exaggeration. It is only over the last 6 or 9 months that we have been able to say that this drought has in effect been broken. The great distance we are from markets imposes a penalty on us in the form of freight charges and multitudinous handling charges. The most critical reason contributing to this more drastic action situation in these areas is the fact that the growers cannot diversify to any significant degree. They are dependent almost entirely on the production of wool. So they face an extremely serious situation. 
At the moment people in these areas feel that they at last have some new hope for the future. They feel that the downward spiral in the market price of wool throughout the world must reach a point where the tide will turn and prices will come back to a reasonable level. In the meantime, for at least one year, they will have the benefit of this deficiency payment provided by the Government. One thing (hat causes concern to many people, and particularly to us who represent these people, is that if they should inevitably have to walk off their properties, what will happen to these thousands of square miles of what is normally good and productive Australian territory. One of the great fears we have is that some of those people who represent the large vested interests, whether they be of this country or from overseas, may be hovering like vultures ready to pounce when these people have reached the point of despair at which they actually have to walk off their properties. (Opposition members interjecting)-- 
The Government is very conscious of this situation despite the peculiar utterances that come from these King William Street squatters who constantly make peculiar noises. As I said before, this man is absolutely the personification of the didgeridoo. He makes loud hollow noises from nothing. Graham Kennedy is back in business. Why in the name of fortune does this other honourable gentleman not follow what is obviously his natural occupation, that of a clown? Getting back to the Bill- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! 

I referred to the honourable member as a didgeridoo. 
You came first but your associate came second. I referred to him as having the attributes of a clown. 
I accept your evaluation of the situation,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was referring to the possibility of a wholesale takeover of this land which could possibly be deserted by people who are no longer able to stand fast and weather this economic nightmare that we are going through. Many other matters are associated with the necessity to restore economic stability in these areas. These are quite obvious. For instance, there has been almost a wholesale abandonment of many of the country air services. Services have been reduced gradually from, say, Fokker Friendships to Twin Otters to small 6-seater aircraft. Only yesterday I was informed that one of the mod important towns in the central west of Queensland, to town of Barcaldine, is now without any air service at all. This is intolerable. But these sorts of things follow economic instability. Many organisations - airline companies or whatever they may be - have drawn literally hundreds of millions of dollars from these - areas. Now that the crunch has come and there is what we hope is a temporary economic instability, they have used this as a reason for going to greener pastures. In many cases, they will openly admit that they want to go to the coast where there is no economic risk whatsoever. This is entirely contrary to the concept of development or, at least, of sustaining the way of life that people in the western areas of Queensland hold in great value. 
A part of the scheme which is associated with this Bill is somewhat worrying. In the description of the method of sustaining the price of 36c a lb for wool it is stated that at the end of each week registered brokers will forward to the Australian Wool Commission a list showing their clients who sold wool at auction and the amount of deficiency money payable. The Commission, acting as an agent of the Commonwealth, will make a lump sum payment to the broker for disbursement to his individual clients. That is quite acceptable provided this disbursement does take place. However, there is a danger here. After all, these stock and station agents and finance houses who have financed the graziers, perhaps for some years, may feel that they are entitled to take all of the results of the sale of this wool against the accounts that are owing to them. This would be quite disastrous and I imagine that the Government would watch this closely. I would certainly hope so. I will be quite frank about this. I have asked the people whom I represent that I want to know if an occasion arises when their wool is sold and their broker submits the claim for the deficiency payment and the whole of that money is taken against the moneys owing to the broker and nothing at all is forthcoming for the producers for, say, restocking and to make them viable again. If this happens I intend to expose it in this House. I certainly hope that this does not happen but, of course, there is a danger of it happening. This is just one of the things which will need to be watched. 
One of the most serious consequences of the recession which has occurred is the way it has affected local authorities throughout Australia. It is not peculiar to any particular area. It is not even peculiar to wool growing areas, although it is far more critical in those areas. When the role of local government in these areas is considered, it is immediately recognised that it is always the most important employer of labour in any small community. In fact, in many small communities local government is the only significant employer of labour. A situation now exists where numerous wool growers and those who are dependent on them cannot pay their rates. It is not a matter of their paying half of their rates: nor is it a matter of coming to some arrangement whereby they will pay them over a period of years. They just cannot see how they will pay their rates at all. Here again, the Government's contribution of this 36c a lb deficiency payment will go a long way, we hope, to assisting in this particular aspect of the serious situation that exists. 
Finally, we hear a great deal of pessimism in this Parliament, The Opposition has become renowned for one particular thing- - 
Its efforts to destroy the morale of this nation. Members of the Opposition are 5-star calamity howlers who seek political gain. They wander in and out of other member's electorates and this is not appreciated. Opposition members should not be worried; I am not referring to my electorate. I would welcome all Opposition members to my electorate of Kennedy. I would be delighted to have them because they would so expose themselves that they would be in an even greater mess than they are at the moment. My final comment is that I do not think that ever in the history of any Australian parliament have there been people who have so contributed to the destruction of the morale of this nation as have the present Opposition - the so-called Australian Labor Party. 
 During the time available to me I intend, naturally, to concern myself with Aboriginal welfare and with the way in which Aboriginals will benefit this year from the estimates of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. The  speaker  who preceded me in this debate was the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is, of course, well known for his pontificating on various subjects and for entering the electorates of other honourable members, wandering around generally and passing judgment on what is happening with respect to Aboriginal affairs in the remote areas. He made specific mention of my home town of Cloncurry. I regret that I did not know that he was visiting Cloncurry because I most certainly would have liked him to have inspected the transient home in Cloncurry. My goodness, what a description that is. This was a building constructed by a Labor government for Aboriginals who were passing through or spending some time in Cloncurry. It is a rather remarkable building. When constructed it did not even have the conveniences that are provided in some stables which are no more than 200 yards from it. It had an earth floor and no partitions. All in all it was an utter disgrace. I should have liked the honourable member for Wills to have examined this building while he was in Cloncurry. I am sure that he would have been terribly impressed with this shocking contribution, or so called contribution, to Aboriginal affairs in those days. 
Many theories are advanced concerning what should or should not be done for Aboriginals by people who have not the slightest knowledge of how Aboriginals live, what their reactions are to specific matters, what their attributes are and what are their general attitudes. There is only one way of understanding the Australian Aboriginals and that is by living among them, sharing their way of life and understanding their attitudes to our way of life. They often say: 'When is someone going to talk to us and ask us what we think is the best that should be done for us?' I. will give an example. I refer to the participation by Aboriginals in development that is proceeding in various parts of Australia. I remember well when Mornington Island was in the electorate of Kennedy visiting that island with the honourable member who subsequently became Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable Bill Wentworth. One evening we met members of the local Aboriginal council. We sat and chatted with them, seeking their views. We were most successful in our efforts, if I may say so. They said: 'Look, let us face it. We cannot adapt ourselves to what other people think we should be doing. We excel at the things we know most'. 
They mentioned particularly fishing in the waters in the vicinity of Mornington Island. They were sensible and constructive in what they proposed. They said: 'People are coming here with new equipment and new methods of fishing out these waters, but we alone know the habits of the prawns and the fish in these areas. We have been here from the dreamtime days'. Their  corroborees and their entertainments are all based on what they claim is their dreamtime history. It is a wonderful experience to be present in the actualenvironment in which their folklore and corroborees originated. The Aboriginals know these areas. They had a sensible approach to participation in an industry  10  which they could make their contribution. They have a down to earth knowledge of the best way of fishing those waters. These people foreshadowed that if the acceleration of the intensity of fishing the waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria were to continue those waters would be fished out. This happened, but, of course, those waters have come good again. 
I refer now to the development at Gove. The normal and logical approach to this development would be to permit the Aboriginals to provide the food requirements for the area. This is being done to some extent. They should be enabled to occupy the land in that area and to raise cattle, perhaps in the early stages under the supervision of people who understand the business side of such activity and the best way of producing the most from the land. If this were permitted there would be a sensible, constructive and gradual participation by Aboriginal people in the way they want it, and not as someone else suggests it should be. These people cannot be pushed. They do not want to be pushed. Some people, with the best intention, suggest ways in which Aboriginals can be assisted and they seek to press them into what they feel is best for them. I am not for one moment reflecting on the intentions of these people but, in many cases they smash the things that are most sacred to the Aboriginals - his family life and family unit. If this is done the Aboriginal is wrecked. Everything else becomes nonmeaningful because what he loves best in this world is his babies. 
No-one will deny that there is not serious mortality among Aboriginal infants, particularly in the backblocks of the Northern Territory and in my own electorate. This is very worrying. It should not be suggested that the Government is not doing everything possible to try to cope with the situation. One should talk to the people who really understand this problem. I remember having lengthy discussions with the matron of a hospital which was dealing with maternal and child welfare in the Alice Springs area. She pointed out that Aboriginal mothers would come in from the tribal grounds in the Northern Territory and be trained to look after their babies. She said that the results were almost dramatic. The Aboriginal women had a natural ability to learn maternal and child welfare. The unfortunate thing was that these women could not be kept at the hospital indefinitely but had to return to their tribal grounds. 
I am sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would substantiate this claim. He is regarded by all fair minded people in that area as having a deep understanding and deep sympathy for the Aboriginal people. Those people who are not influenced by political stirrers who come into areas that they do not even understand will admit frankly that the honourable member for the Northern Territory is highly regarded. Why should not the people in those areas by sympathetic towards him? He has lived for 30 years in the Northern Territory. He did not go there for purely political purposes. I have said it before, and I say it again, that those stirrers who come into the remote areas go through them like a brumby with his tail on fire. They are in and out like a flash, leaving trouble behind them. However they do not have much influence on local opinion and I am sure that when the results of the election held last weekend for the Northern Territory Legislative Council come out this will be clearly in evidence. 
On the question of education of the Aboriginals it is interesting to note that at present there is one Aboriginal university graduate. A further 14 Aboriginals are presently at university and there has been a gradual building up of those who are capable of being admitted to universities. This, in itself, is progress, although not as fast as we would wish it to be. Here again the wishes of the people themselves must be considered. As long as I am a member of this House I will protect the right of the Aboriginal to maintain his own dignity, to preserve his own family unit and his desires to blend in and to enjoy progress and not to be pressed into it. 
A few moments ago I referred to participation by Aboriginals in activities in their own areas. When planning is being undertaken for the Aboriginals it should be done in consultation with the local Aboriginal councils which comprise men who are highly intelligent, who have the confidence of people in the area and who understand and live with Aboriginals in the area. They have not only the confidence of their own people but of other residents. They can be a means of liaison which is extremely valuable. For goodness sake, let the Government take advantage of their knowledge. If this is done we will see the genuine advancement of our Aboriginal people. While I am a member of this House I will fight against the Aboriginals being exploited for political purposes, which is a shabby, distasteful and unacceptable thing which is happening throughout the country. 
The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  displayed a superb lack of knowledge of the history of his own Party, otherwise he would be clearly aware that probably the greatest manipulation in the political history of this country was in the State of Queensland during the regime of the Australian Labor Party. If that claim were to be challenged at all, it would be by the 30 years during which the Labor Party held office in New South Wales, when there was complete and absolute manipulation. 
I would like to speak on that subject on another occasion. The matter to which I want to draw some attention this morning is the situation which exists in the mining communities in the area which I represent. When I had the privilege to be  chairman  of the Mount Isa Shire Council it was a very small town. There were other small communities such as Blackwater, which was a whistle stop. It is now a proud town and Mount Isa is a very proud city. There has been a distinct change over the years. Once we had a drifting and unsettled population. It was almost the type of community to which people came from other areas merely to receive a pay cheque, build up a bank account and move off again. This is not the situation now. These are permanent communities. I feel that the people of these communities should enjoy the fruits of the tremendous wealth they are producing for this country and, unfortunately, for other countries. 
The Federal Government should give very serious consideration to the establishment of scholarships for the sons and daughters of the workers of those communities. I know that such scholarships are provided in Queensland. I know that the companies in certain areas provide bursaries. But there is a great danger in the mining industry at the present time that with assured development there will inevitably be a lack of technical assistance. Perhaps there will not be a lack so much of geologists. I will have something to say about them on another occasion. But there will be a lack of even the people who are required to have a certain technical standard. I feel that if this matter was closely examined in these various communities - not only in my own electorate, but throughout Australia - it might be found that many people are involved. 
I have in mind particularly the com.nunity at Blair Athol where we see a handful of miners who have been whittled down slowly but surely to just a small group of families. I feel that if opportunities had been offered to the sons and daughters of those people we would have had a more stable community. After all, which group of people in the world work under conditions more hazardous than those experienced by coal miners? Even in these days with great advances in safety measures, amenities and other methods whereby life has been made a little easier for these people, there is inevitably a danger in working underground, particularly with coal. Who would be more equipped and who would have the background to be trained more adequately to take on the higher positions than the sons and daughters of these second and third generation coalminers? 1 urge the Government to examine this question closely to ascertain where this shortage of technically trained people will occur in the future. I have been assured by people in the industry that this could reach a crisis point. Who would be more entitled to fill those positions than the sons and daughters of the toilers - the ordinary, average miners in these communities? I intend to go into this matter far more closely and I shall perhaps present something more constructive to the House on another occasion. 
I suppose the Opposition has to carry out its role and has to mutilate and take to pieces the achievement by this Government, but I think 2 simple figures indicate what a splendid record this Government has had over the years in this matter of housing. Over a period of 22 years $105m has been contributed as finance for war service homes, and in 15 years the almost unbelievable figure of $l,509m has been contributed by way of housing grants. These figures speak for themselves. Having said this, I propose to submit to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and to the Government what I consider are perhaps some of the things that are lacking in the whole of our system. Naturally my remarks will apply more particularly to what is happening in some of the developing areas and in the rural areas of this great nation. I suppose no one would be more acutely aware of matters relating to housing than the Minister himself. He is very much a family man, and a person in this situation has a necessity for housing at its best. Where we do not have sufficient, adequate and comfortable housing, one of two things happens. Social conditions are created which lead to crime or which Slimmarc vice and all the other ugly things that happen where we do not have adequate housing and where we have slum conditions. I am diametrically opposed to the trend to build apartment houses. It is a matter of population. In a vast country like Australia where we have less ,han 13 million people there is the suggestion that we should do all possible to prevent an extension of our population. In a country where there are thousands of square miles of land available we have this trend towards the building of apartment houses. Even though they be modern, well equipped and are synonymous with the progress of our civilisation they are, in effect, a sort of ghetto. I regret to say that they lead to this type of living. 
There are 2 aspects of housing which I would most earnestly suggest that the Minister for Housing examine. I speak now of the outback areas of Australia - the non urban areas - but my remarks could be applied to the outer areas of provincial cities. It is the subject of adobe housing. I had an opportunity of closely discussing this matter with Marcus Kyle who I would say is one of the top authorities in Australia, at the University of Queensland. He is well recognised for his contributions to the adequacy of an adobe type of home for the conditions in tropical areas of Australia where there is heat - and that is almost in any part of Australia - and where there is a necessity for circulation of air. When I talk of circulation of air, I think the Federal Government could well look into the possibility of in some way subsidising - perhaps not directly by financial assistance but by some concessional form - the provision of air conditioning. 
In my own home town of Cloncurry, the shire council which I had the privilege of leading, introduced an air conditioning scheme which put air conditioners in almost every home for the owners who wanted them. That was the great majority of the homes of the town of Cloncurry. Immediately, a new era began for the housewife, because it is not only a matter of reducing the temperature of the home but also a matter of preventing the intrusion of dust. This is a big thing in country areas, particularly in the deep inland areas of this country. The housewife is more contended and is not tugging at her husband's sleeve saying: 'Let us move to the coast', or 'let us move to the city areas'. 
One of the most critical necessities is for the world to be de-urbanised. I was utterly amazed to find that last year the United Nations committee dealing with the environment had not discussed de-urbanisation as such. It had discussed this subject of adequate housing which we are discussing now. It had discussed the great tragedy of drugs and the other things that are increasing pressures in the great urban areas of the world. But never did it suggest that there should be a great move to deurbanise, to attract people away from the cities or to discourage any further numbers  congesting and building up these populations. When we think in these terms, we think of adequate housing. The great necessity is to move people away from the congested city areas. So I would reiterate that these are 2 fields which the Federal Government could perhaps look into. It is all very well to say that these are the responsibilities of the State governments. But I think that the Federal Government always has the responsibility of- taking the initiative. I think the men are separated from the boys in the case of Ministers who are prepared to do this. Fortunately, in our ranks at the moment we have outstanding people who are capable of doing this. I would suggest that the Minister for Housing is one of these people who is known for his initiative and for his individuality of action. He could well give a lead to the State Ministers for Housing by suggesting that they look into these features and the possibility of adobe housing or some other inexpensive type of housing for the young people who are trying to get established and, of course, the possibility of assisting with some scheme whereby an air conditioner could be provided for every home where we have tropical climatic conditions. 
In talking about young people and providing homes for them, I would like to make a point quite decisively this afternoon: There is r. great forest of bureaucracy, rules, regulations, by-laws and all the other things that people have to plough through to find out whether they can buy a piece of land. I think this prevents young people from making a move. For instance, I could mention one or two specific cases where allotments were offered for auction and many of them were passed in. There was not even a bid. In those areas there was a tremendous demand for housing. We must also think of people over 36 years of age. They are people who perhaps are getting on a little and have become so sufficiently well established that they can look around to provide themselves with a home. They have to be kept in mind also. I feel that there are many people - young people and those who are a little older - who would be able to come along and perhaps bid for these allotments if they knew what was going on. They see a long, complicated advertisement or some promulgation which they do not really understand. I think it would be a good idea to have some sort of bureau which could explain to them when these auctions were being conducted and when land is being made available. I think one of the very urgent needs is for the clarification and simplification of methods of making land available. 
It is not just a matter of housing. The price of land is quite prohibitive at the moment. I think this should be very closely examined. As I say, I would also like to see examined the provision of homes built on an adobe basis or in some similar form. I do not want to keep stressing adobe, but I have in mind some form of adequate, modern but simplified form of construction. I most earnestly appeal to the Minister to look into these matters and perhaps take over the initiative in getting the State Ministers for Housing to look into what I consider to be very serious matters affecting the housing of young people and those not so young people in this great country. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, before making my contribution to this debate may I express my satisfaction, and I am sure the satisfaction of most members of the House, that you are occupying the chair? We sincerely hope you will remain there for the rest of the evening. I have a particular and sentimental interest in this debate because  my  home town is Cloncurry where the idea of Qantas was conceived. Let me make this perfectly clear. Actually Qantas was founded in Winton. It was born there but a part of the conception, at least, took place in Cloncurry and it enjoyed its adolescence in Longreach. The inaugural flight of Qantas took place, if I remember rightly, on 2nd November 1922 from Charleville to Cloncurry via Longreach. I immediately call to mind some of the great names associated with Qantas - Eric Donaldson, Arthur Affleck, Lester Brain and, of course, the greatest of them all, I suppose, when one thinks of the foundation of Qantas, Hudson Fysh. With a good deal of nostalgia I recollect my first flight in an aeroplane with Hudson Fysh when I was a very small boy. I mention all this to indicate that I have a sentimental attachment to this great airline. Its performance and its growth represent a great tribute to all those who have been associated with it. I think that it, probably above all other factors, has spread the name of Australia with honour throughout the world. 
I well remember visiting a little restaurant in the mid-west of the United States of America. It was in an area far removed from the normal airline routes. The restaurant had a calendar issued by Qantas Airways Ltd on display and with a burst of, I suppose, brash enthusiasm I said: 'My father was one of the small group of men who got together and kicked this airline off'. The proprietor looked at me and said: Are you some sort of nut? That fellow cooking out in the kitchen is Lyndon B. Johnson'. He did not believe me but here was an example of the name of Qantas being seen right away from the major air routes of the world. 
Having said this, I am about to make some comments which 1 hope will be interpreted as constructive, as they are intended to be. I make these remarks because I believe that in the final analysis the profitability of any organisation depends on how the consumer - the man who buys the ticket and travels with an airline - reacts not only to the service he receives in the air but also to the service he receives on the ground. It is my opinion that Qantas has been so concerned with achieving what has been a magnificent record of safety in the air that some of what might be interpreted as the less important things have been neglected. An impression is gained, as one moves around the world, that the people who are in the offices of Qantas and who come in contact with the travellers, do not project the image of Australia as it is accepted in normal circumstances. This may be due to the fact that Qantas employs people of the countries in which its offices are located. In my opinion there is an air of detachment - there is not an air of real concern about the comfort and arrangements of the traveller. This is a serious matter. 
Recently we heard in this House a speech by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  which made a profound impression. It could probably be regarded as a classic of its kind. The House was debating the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill and he referred to the woollen product. He pointed out how difficult it is to find an ordinary woollen garment on display and for sale in the various retail stores throughout Australia. This point made quite an impact because I suppose that most honourable members consider that it does not matter how much one indulges in grand and expensive public relations operations and it does not matter how much one gives forth on the efficiency of an organisation, in the final analysis it is a matter of direct contact with the public. 
In all sincerity. 1 feel that there r a lot to be desired in the operation of this magnificent airline. I am not mentioning this just to be critical. I hope my criticism is constructive. 1 might relate my own experience which I have discussed with other people as I have moved around the world. They have agreed that the circumstances I have experienced do exist. Last year I travelled to the United States to attend the United Nations, and my bookings were entirely in the hands of Qantas. I can say that almost invariably the record remained very consistent; I do not think that one of those arrangements was intact. The rather classic example was that the hotel I had supposedly been booked into in Stockholm was in fact 500 kilometers from Stockholm. Having arrived in New York I wen: to the Qantas office and related to the manager, whom I knew personally, that these bookings had somehow or other gone haywire. He said: 'Yes. We are having some trouble with the people handling these matters. It will not happen again'. 
After the meeting of the General Assembly I was to break my journey home in Nevada, mainly for business reasons. The New York manager of Qantas said: Your booking now is absolutely 100 per cent'. He booked me into a little shack known as Caesar's Palace. When I arrived there I said: 'My name is Bob Katter. You have a booking here for me'. They said: Yes, sir'. They looked up their books and there was no record of it. So I thought: 'I am going to see this ons right through'. I saw the fellow in charge of the bookings and he traced it right back to New York, and no booking had been made. 
Being exhausted after my business there I broke my journey at Honolulu on the way back. While I was there I discovered that I had not booked a car in Sydney. I am only a boy from the bush, and I asked Qantas representatives whether they could help me out. They said: 'Yes. We will send a telex message to Sydney. We are in touch with our Sydney office continuously. We will get in touch with the Commonwealth car pool'. When I arrived in. Sydney the Commonwealth car pool had never heard any such message. These are only little things. I am giving my own personal experience. Other people have told me that their bookings and all their arrangements en route were absolutely 100 per cent. But I do not think there should be any exception. I think that everything else is of little importance if that human reaction is missing. 
Another thing about Qantas is that it employs mainly stewards rather than air hostesses. I brought this matter up recently and was given various reasons as to why this is necessary. I think that male travellers - 1 think if the women are honest they will agree - much prefer to be. ministered to by an air hostess rather than a male steward. An air hostess seems to have a better understanding. They create an almost exotic, domestic atmosphere in the aircraft, and there is something that does not ring true when you have a steward looking after you. These are little human things that I think are terribly important. 
I suppose that perhaps with the exception of politicians no-one discusses anything critically more than he does the airlines and the various companies and the service they give and the way they look after you. When a person is abroad he is almost entirely in the hands of the airline with which he is flying. The average person when he is abroad has a feeling of being very much abroad, if I may put it that way, and he becomes entirely dependent on the arrangements that have been made for him by the airline with which he is travelling. My colleague, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  pointed out that Qantas is a flag carrier. Hence if Qantas is criticised for these perhaps minor but terribly important things Australia is criticised. 
To conclude this theme, I think that Qantas would do well to examine the staff training that is apparently undertaken by Trans-Australia Airlines, because it is generally agreed that the staff of TAA are just wonderful. They seem to have a concern for the most human things that we require and demand when we are travelling. As I say, my first loyalty till the day I die will be to Qantas. When I was a child I lived in the area where Qantas was born. This is why I rather hope that the very important grass roots service we expect will be looked into far more closely. I think that if this happens we will be pretty near perfection. 
The profitability of Qantas is guaranteed, in effect, by the Government. This bill is concerned with the raising of a loan for $ 10.1m for the purchase of Boeing 747 aircraft. As we are talking about profitability may I deviate for one moment. Not only the profitability of Qantas but the profitability of the 2 domestic airlines is guranteed by the Government because of the protection these airlines receive. The very sad and very disastrous deterioriation of country airlines just recently should bring to our minds the fact that the profitability of these airlines is guaranteed by this government, by heck, I think that in return they should underwrite the provision of country air services so that we do not see happening what has happened over the last few weeks when towns have been deprived completely of air services. 
Let me get back to my theme. In conclusion. I point out that if you examine the record of Qantas you will find that, possibly with the exception of these perhaps less important matters upon which 1 have based my comments tonight, that record is impeccable. We can proudly claim that with the exception of the 
United States we record more passenger miles per head of population than does any other country. The United States has a figure of 570; we have a figure of 362. I think this in itself is a tremendous achievement. Qantas is virtually a government company, and one always regards these with suspicion; but of course our airline operates under a separate commission and 1 suppose this is a perfect set-up. As Qantas points out in its annual report, its profitability since the war, although consistent, has always been marginal in relation to revenue. Unfortunately recently we have seen a deterioration in this situation. 
As my colleague from North Sydney pointed out, not one person associated with Qantas would want to stand down one pilot or one pilot trainee. I suppose the acme of the ambition of any young man who wants to be a commercial pilot is to become a trainee pilot with Qantas. But what a dreadful thing it is for that young man when he suddenly finds that he has been stood down. Do honourable members think that any person would derive any consolation from that? Not at all. However this is the situation throughout the world, and our friends in the &gt; Opposition realise this. They cannot believe in what they are saying, because if they were to examine the records of any country at the moment they would see that there is this disastrous situation where airlines are facing up to extreme losses. 
I think that the profit record of Qantas which shows for various years profits of $2m, $5m, $7m. $20m and $33m, even though these figures as a percentage of revenue may be low, is still a tremendous achievement. Hence I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 1 do not think the amendment can possibly be supported or that the Opposition can convince Government supporters that it should be supported. 
It is  a  great pity that a nice fellow such as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  must try to pontificate on matters of which he has not the slightest knowledge.  His  concluding comments regarding the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicate the brainwashing that honourable members opposite have undergone. I wish to draw attention to one comment that he made. He spoke of our commitment in Vietnam and went on to say how equally disastrous our exercise in respect of Cambodia is or will be. This is just a continuation of the charade that honourable members opposite have been entering into over the last few days. Certain members of the Opposition - the few who still have in their hearts an allegiance to the principles which the now almost defunct, genuine Australian Labor Party was once so ready to fight for and cherish - must be appalled and saddened at having to share the shame and dishonour which certain policies of the new left wing pro-Peking radicals have brought into the Party and which blemish, distort and finally will destroy the spirit and heart of this once great party. 
Most people in Australia are fully aware of .this attitude which, year in and year out, day in and day out, is shown in  a  clear, bitter and critical censure of the United States of America, an antagonism to the Americans and a distortion of their motives, but at the same lime a cringing sensitivity to any action that may prepare people to counter Communist aggression and intrusion into South East Asia. If we make any effort to contribute to the training of troops there, it is immediately condemned. The people of Australia are acutely sensitive to this. Honourable members opposite have some sort of an airyfairy idea that they are making ground with the Australian electorate. 1 wonder whether they have read the 2 recent by-election results in Queensland. In one by-election  a  group of people in Maryborough, who are synonymous with the average Australian Labor voter, were so impressed by the performance of these people that there was a 17.5 per cent swing against the so-called Labor Party. 
The Liberal Party won it in a photo finish with the Country Party. Why did the honourable member ask that question? In the Merthyr by-election - in a by-election we normally see a swing against the government - we saw a 4 per cent increase in the Liberal vote. As if that was not enough, what happened in the Northern Territory recently? We hope that in the very near future the Northern Territory will become a State. It has been traditionally a Labor stronghold and is still a Labor stronghold if we regard the Labor Party as what it once was. The people there still have the ingredients of what we once knew as the Labor Party. What happened there 3 weeks ago? The Labor Party sent its radicals there. It sent its new look, so-called Labor people there. They were running in and out of the Territory. Their influence was so effective that the Country Party now has 5 members of the Legislative Council instead of 4; there are 3 Independents; and there are 3 others. They are 3 Labor Party members. I almost forgot about them. The anti-Labor vote was increased considerably. 
The point to which I am leading  -  I am speaking on foreign affairs - is that all this has been produced because the people of Australia are concerned that the security of this country would be very much in jeopardy in the hands of this group of people opposite. Let us concede that somewhere in the chain of communications something broke down. Is it a tragedy that the Prime Minister may not have been informed for a week or so of a particular event? Of course it is not. The salient factor is that we are carrying on a policy, of which we have made no secret since we were committed in that part of the world; that is, to give every possible assistance to these people who are resisting Communist aggression. Now that we have withdrawn from Vietnam, honourable members opposite lack that argument. We are not now committed to a war. So we propose to leave people there to train the soldiers of Cambodia. Honourable members opposite do not like that. They are completely sensitive to it. Where is the old spirit of the Labor Party? On the other side of this chamber there are men who are typical Labor men and who were trained by the old Labor Party. But the old idea of 'stay in and fight' apparently is a thing of the past. They cannot fight this intrusion by left wing, pro-Peking radicals. 
Perhaps the most important facet of our foreign relations is our relationship with Indonesia. Fortunately, that country offers a complete bulwark against Communist infiltration, aggression and intrusion in this part of the world. Honourable members will notice that I keep saying 'Communist'. There seems to be a habit of avoiding this term. We are becoming complacent and are not watching the intrusion of this ideology. While I was at the United Nations I had the opportunity to mix fairly continuously with the representatives of Indonesia. They have a great desire to build the closest possible relationship with us in every possible respect. My contribution to this debate is to suggest most strongly that we exploit every possible avenue - far in excess of what we are doing at the present time - to create the closest possible relationships with that country. We should make a contribution through our educational system. Our young people should be trained in the language. They should learn the culture. They should learn about the thinking of these people, whose law is based very much on Islamic law, so that they will bc able to build up a genuine understanding not only of the political ideology of these people but also the way in which they think and the way in which they act in creating relationships with us. I urge the people of Australia and the governments in Australia to endeavour to create the closest possible relationship with Indonesia. 
First of all I would like again to pay tribute to the splendid manner in which the Department of Civil Aviation carries out its job and its responsibilities throughout Australia. The $88m that has been appropriated for this department will, as usual, be well spent. I would also like to say that Trans-Australia Airlines does a splendid job as far as its service, courtesy and efficiency and the operations of its offices are concerned. My comments tonight will be associated with a policy that has apparently been adopted by both the major airlines to abandon as far as humanly possible many country airports, particularly in Queensland and, more particularly, in my electorate. In view of certain developments that have occurred over the last week or so 1 have reached the point where 1 am not prepared to accept this policy any longer. Within the next few days I intend to call a protest meeting in the central west which will be heard from one end of this nation to the other because I am fed up to the teeth with the way country airports and air services have completely deteriorated. 
There are a number of very important centres in the electorate of Kennedy which, at the moment, have no air service at all. These centres are Charters Towers, Blackwater, Moura, Alpha and Barcaldine. It is Barcaldine I am particularly concerned with, lt is an important central western town, lt is a very important centre from many points of view. I learned only tonight that TAA has advised that it is not able to service this airport. It was not originally the responsibility of TAA at all; it was the responsibility of Ansett-ANA to service this airport. There has been a sequence in the deterioration of the service from Fokker Friendships to Twin Otters and then subsequently to 6 seater aircraft or feeder services. The deterioration has reached a climax in this particular case and there is now no air service being provided at all for Barcaldine. I heard the other day that TAA has offered some sort of excuse. However, I would have thought it would have been a perfectly simple thing for TAA to bring Barcaldine into one of its route services. Only 40 miles from Barcaldine it puts down at Aramac, while 60- odd miles west of Barcaldine it puts down at Longreach. Nobody can convince me despite all the talk about pilots' hours and so forth (hat it would not very quickly find a solution if some provincial city or one of the metropolitan services was involved, lt would find a solution without hesitation. By heck, they had better find a solution to this problem. In the not far distant future the Government will have to look at the protection these 2 airlines are given and I believe that the profitability of the airlines is guaranteed by the protection they get. It takes two to tango and they have a responsibility to underwrite many of these country air services. I do not say that they should underwrite them to an absolutely ridiculous degree; nobody would insist on this at all. 
In regard to air feeder services, there is not a member in this House representing a rural electorate who has not had the experience of very enthusiastic men coming forward and putting themselves in hock to get hold of an aircraft and gradually build up what they think will be a contribution to people in country areas. They start one of these feeder services, but how long do they last? Not very long at all, and this is so for 2 reasons. The first is that they do not have sufficient financial backing. I was surprised to learn the other day that the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia could not help a man finance a feeder service. What is the Development Bank for? It is for development. My goodness, if the provision of an air service to a country centre is not part of the general mosaic of development then what is? Many of these things have to be looked at. The second reason why these small companies attempting to nil the gap cannot get off the ground or continue is that they do not have the facilities. They do not have public relations officers who can advertise their air services and make the public aware of them. They have many such disadvantages. 
I think it is high time that the Government looked at its guarantee of profitability of our major airlines. This involves good money which has been contributed by the Government. I know we have the Australian Airlines Commission with which the Government does not interfere, but I think it might be high time we did do a bit of interfering and got a guarantee that the airlines will underwrite these country air services.. I at least am not prepared to stand by and see the abandonment of these communities. The airlines say they do not get the bookings out of the towns I am referring to but there is a vicious circle here. These towns have never had the advantage of economy class fares. Buses have come on the road but people will not travel in buses if they can get a comparable air service. How ridiculous it would be to suggest otherwise. If there was any real regard for providing air services to these centres in which aviation was born it is high time that it was shown. These centres have been abandoned and I am not prepared to stand by and see it happen any further. There is an extreme responsibility on the airlines to fill these gaps. 
The Department of Civil Aviation in almost every regard does a really splendid job. It is a pleasure to deal with its officers. They will try to help out in every possible way, and I would pay a particular tribute to  Mr Mike  Seymour, the Department's  deputy  director in Queensland. Wherever situations arise, he will do all possible to assist. But, in the final analysis, each matter is referred back to the airlines which have to make the decisions. It is a great shame to see an airline like TransAustralia Airlines, which gives such impeccable service and whose safety record is so high, being obliged, because of some major policy decision, to refer a matter to someone in Melbourne or somewhere else, a thousand miles away from the area of operations, and having to follow a decision made there which affects the people whom I represent. Let me say here and now: I serve notice that, within the next week, I propose to call a meeting at Barcaldine, with the co-operation of the local people. I hope that the message will be heard from one end of this nation to the other. The principle of the abandonment of rural areas is involved. I am not prepared to stand by and to see that happen. 
 I would like first of all to commend the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for the intensity of his dedication to the framing of this Bill. I feel that no-one is more qualified to understand the human requirements of the ordinary every-day Australian when it comes to matters of housing because no-one has had to provide housing for a greater number of people in a family unit than has the Minister himself. I rather believe that the Minister, like myself, acts on the basis that people are more important than policies and even more important than parties. 1 think it would be wise to dwell for a moment on the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in regard to housing because certain trends in the altitudes of the Opposition might produce some rather interesting changes in the whole concept of housing. For instance, quite recently there began a move within the Labor Party- it is gaining momentum - which may produce the sort of house that has, instead of 2 towels marked  'His'  and Hers', 2 towels marked  'His'  and  'His'. 
There is another very popular trend amongst the newer members of the Labor Party - 1 respect the older members of that Party - who are adopting the increasingly popular attitude which no doubt will culminate in abortion on demand. Well, I do not know where that will end. Will they want houses at all? This, of course, introduces some very novel ideas when it comes to matters of housing but the Bill itself indicates quite clearly that this Government has continued over a period of years to provide a standard of housing, both in quality and in numbers, that has pretty well become the envy of the whole world. T do not say that just to attract praise to the pretty wonderful record of this Government. 1 do not have to do that; the Australian people appreciate it. If we have any doubts about the appreciation by the people of Australia of this and other policies of the Government I suggest that it is interesting to look at recent election results. In the most recent election result at Ascot there was a 10 per cent swing against the Labor Party. It suffered a terrible defeat in the Northern Territory. 
This is sad because many of the most fundamental principles of the Labor Party were cherished in the Northern Territory. Then, of course, we had the disaster for the so-called Labor Party in Queensland. 1 would tike particularly to dwell on one aspect of housing requirements in Queensland. When looking at the figures for the housing contributions to the States one might be immediately struck by the amount for Queensland which does not appear to be commensurate with allocations to the other States. But one must appreciate the fact that most of the centres that are developing quite dramatically in Queensland were developed on the basis of the new infrastructure provided by the various mining organisations, lt is interesting to note the commencement of this whole concept in regard to housing. 1 will not refer to everything else that goes into the infrastructure such as transport and so on. In my own headquarters at Mount Isa the whole concept not just in Australia but in' the whole world began. The first barracks provided for employees, and their houses, vere provided in Mount Isa. 
To this day in some of the great mining centres of the world - I have in mind the US, particularly the new Henderson mine some miles from Denver in the Rockies--' one sees only the actual mining development. As regards housing one does not even see a hutch. I suppose this has offset to a very great degree what would be t'ie normal requirements for housing. However, here is a danger in itself, because the initial housing requirement in these centres- I again refer to Mount Isa because it is the city which I know best - has been exceeded. There are many people around Mount Tsa who are not directly associated with the mining development itself. It is these people, along with many of the employees of the mining company, who are in desperate circumstances for housing. 
My office in Mount lsa is like a bureau. There are people coming in daily to plead for assistance to obtain a home for a man. his wife and perhaps some children. One of the things which I particularly put to the Minister tonight is that it would be a great contribution to assisting young people' if there were bureaus at which they might inquire about housing provisions. So many housing schemes and so many benefits have been formulated and are available as a result of legislation introduced by this Government that most young people just do not know what is available to them. Recently at an auction for blocks of land in Mount Isa a few lots were left unsold. I imagine the reason for this is that young people do not know what finance or other assistance is available to them. I plead with the Minister to regard as a very special case the growing and emerging centres such as Blackwater, Moura and Mount Isa. It may be said that housing is being provided at a very rapid rate in these centres, perhaps more specifically by the companies themselves but frequently by arrangement between the companies and the State Government, but there are still many people who require housing. This number will increase despite the Opposition's attitude: 'We will all be ruined', says Halloran. We hear the great cry of woe that is going up in regard to industry in this country. Everyone who has a sane attitude in regard to the economy of this country realises that this is in the short term and we will be out of the woods and our economy will be as virile as it ever was in a very short space of time. I extend to the Minister an invitation - which I assume he will accept - to visit these mining centres over the next few months. I would like him to come up when the climatic conditions are at their worst because this is when one appreciates how terribly necessary it is to have comfortable, airy and air-conditioned housing. If I may put it on record, it was my great privilege to introduce an air-conditioning scheme in my own town of Cloncurry which has resulted in just about every home in the town being air-conditioned. I suggest that local government organisations should have a look at a scheme such as this one so that homes may be air-conditioned in inland areas of this country where the climatic conditions are harsh and where it is not unusual for temperatures to vary between 105 and 115 degrees week in week out. I might mention that this type of heat is much more tolerable than the sort of thing produced in Canberra, particulary in this chamber. It would be a good idea to assist these people in inland areas completely, by eliminating the sales tax on air-conditioning units. The sales tax is little enough now; however, it is still there, lt would be good if a scheme such as this could become a general and standard scheme for communities such as we have in the inland of Australia which are subject to great heat conditions. Not only does air-conditioning of homes in these centres provide better climatic conditions but it also eliminates dust and this is a big benefit for housewives in those areas. 
One of the most convincing statements made after the last meeting of Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers was that made by  Mr Hodges,  the Minister for Housing in the Queensland Government. It is interesting to see what he finally said. When he got back from the meeting he stated: 
While we have had some very frank discussions with the Commonwealth I must in all fairness to the Commonwealth say that 1 do not doubt for one minute the sincerity of its desire to assist the States in housing low and moderate income families. 1 must further say that in some respects there arc advantages to the States in the new Commonwealth proposals. 
Add that statement to the comment by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, and we realise that the States themselves are at last content, or nearly so, with the Commonwealth proposals. It is an achievement in itself to make the States content about anything with which the Commonwealth has something to do. Our Minister is apparently acceptable in the eyes of the State governments. 
I appreciate that the Queensland Government, like all other State governments, has its resources strained almost to breaking point. I suppose most of the States are doing a splendid job in allocating available financial resources to housing. Whatever be the reason and whatever be the necessary financial arrangement. I say quite emphatically that something must be done about housing for railway employees in the State of Queensland. I imagine that my comments would apply to many other States. During last week when the House was not sitting I went along the railway line in part of my electorate, and I was appalled at the conditions under which some of those men had to exist. In one centre they had tried everything except strike action in an endeavour to obtain better housing. They said to me: 'It looks as though we will have to employ strike action'. I said: 'If you do, use my name as commending your strike action'. They went on strike the following week and there was not a murmur from anyone. J was one of the first to say: "By hell, they had every right to go on strike'. 
In conclusion there are 2 points I want to make specifically. Firstly, 1 want the Minister to examine closely the system of companies providing housing for perhaps the hard core of a population in a town and then, as the growth of this area begins to snowball, there are people on the fringe of the town who are not able to get housing. lt is pretty distressing to see this happen. I ask him most specifically to look into this matter with the object of perhaps providing some special funds. I know it is easy to talk like this, but unless we have people correctly housed we will have discontented people, lt is bad enough having discontented people in the great urban areas on which the Australion Labor Party, or what now purports to be the Australian Labor Party, concentrates all its efforts. It is much worse to lack adequate housing out in (he distant areas which constitute my electorate. The second point I make is that railway employees in many isoloted areas of Queensland cannot continue to live in the circumstances in which they live at (he moment. Their housing is not fit for ti well trained horse- 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. In view of the fact that for years now the metropolitan and most provincial city areas have enjoyed a surplus of television reception and in view of the fact that the inland, wealth producing areas of this nation have been deprived of this now standard amenity, will the Postmaster-General instruct his officers to accelerate their efforts to full pitch so that television may be installed in the central west and central highland areas of Queensland much sooner than presently programmed? 
 I have very much pleasure in associating myself with the Bill as presented by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  My satisfaction is based not only on the manner in which the Bill meets a deficiency that did exist but also on the fact that it was presented by a Minister who, I feel, has profound understanding of these matters. He was in Queensland recently and he had what would be a trying experience in any circumstances, that is, to spend an hour with a group of young university students, and he was applauded throughout Queensland for the manner in which he dealt with this question. He has shown this under standing not only in regard to his duties relating to the Department but also in regard to his other duties. Having said that) I would like to refer to what I think is the substance of the more important part of this Pill. In his second reading speech tha Minister said: 
This Bill is yet another step being undertaker! by the Government in an endeavour to prevent Australian citizens being exposed to this dreadful traffic. 
That is traffic in various drugs, of course. The Minister said further: 
A major legal difficulty encountered by officers of the Narcotics Bureau in bringing drug traffickers to justice is the necessity to produce direct evidence that drugs seized have been imported into Australia. 
This problem occurs despite the fact thai in many instances the drugs concerned exhibit foreign markings or words and obviously have been manufactured in an overseas country. 
Anyone with any intelligence at all will realise the necessity for this Bill. 
One of my main purposes - in speaking in this debate is to point more specifically to the question of marihuana - call it grass, hay, pot, stick, reefer or whatever you like. What is marihuana? It is one of the hallucinogenic drugs. Such a drug creates hallucinations or delusions. The point is that this drug creates delusions without clouding consciousness. Here is the fine line of distinction between marihuana and alcohol: Alcohol and other intoxicating substances may also create hallucinations but the mind is clouded. An hallucinogen distorts reality. It plays tricks on the mind. It stimulates the senses in such a way that the imagination runs wild, and it does so with a dangerous clarity. The mind is not clouded. 
Honourable members may wonder, knowing me, where I would get such profound knowledge. My authorities are Robert Sharoff, M.D., who is the Associate Professor of Psychiatry of the New York Medical College and former Director of the Narcotic Addiction Service, Metropolitan Hospital, New York City, and also The Marihuana Papers'. I am led to believe that this latter book has been examined closely by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I am not going to lose faith in the Minister for Customs and Excise because of any decision made by the Senate Select Committee. I do not want to say that one 
Minister in the House of Representatives is worth  20  senators. Maybe this is a correct assessment, but it is not for me to say. But it is the Minister's business to know what is going on in regard to drug trafficking every day of the week and every week of the year. He knows precisely what is happening. Such a man of the world as he is has a profound understanding of these matters. So he is my second authority. 
Let me refer to a document I have before me which gives the effects of marihuana, lt says: 
In a recent issue of the 'American Journal of Psychiatry', a small group of pot smokers were reported on. All were of superior intelligence. They were or had been university students. 
I like the use of the words 'had been' because unfortunately one of the effects of drug taking is that there are so many dropouts at the universities. The document continues: 
None was a delinquent. None had ever been arrested. All but two came from middle class backgrounds. These are some of the difficulties which were experienced: One felt panic and fear. One had a feeling that he was outside himself and had lost his identity. One suffered complete confusion and hallucination. Two experienced deep depression. Four had a paranoid reaction - feeling someone or something was out to hurt them. Two had major changes of behaviour and style of life after using the drug. Four had a split personality. . . . 
I think that this in itself is a very profound indictment of the irresponsible people who wo.:!d constantly create in the minds of young people the impression that drug taking is a pretty normal thing to do. Pressure is put upon a young person, when he or she leaves high school and goes to university and feels that he or she has to conform to standards that are being dragged down by people who create this impression. 1 like the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  but I do not like a lot of the things he stands for. He spoke about moralising as though 'moralising' was a dirty word. According to him, you do not create moral standards any more. 1 say that you most certainly, do create moral standards until yo-j  build  cp in the mind' of our young people that they do have a code by which they should live, and it is a code that does not include the smoking of marihuana. 
Why should they smoke marihuana? You may say they drink alcohol and smoke cigarettes. Let us go a little further into this in case those minor reactions may not have been impressive enough. What are the dangers of marihuana?  Dr Sharoff  says: 
To marihuana critics,  the  pot user  retorts  that it  increases artistic talent. 
What is artistic talent? I should not start talking about artistic talent or the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  will refer to my alleged attendance at the United Nations organisation.  Dr Sharoff  says: 
Most scientific opinion does not support his claims. It even makes some serious counterclaims. The user may '..., good' while the drug lasts, but afterwards he may experience a 'down' and become, gloomy. 1  suppose that is something that we experience in this chamber at about one o'clock in the morning. He continues: 
Some users show signs of panic and even express fear of dying. 
This is what  Dr Sharoff  had to say: 
In  company, the user may be very talkative, even if he  is  naturally shy. He sounds self confident even on matters about which he knows very little. He loses his inhibitions. 
I suppose we all do that at times - 
However, if  negative idea shows up. he may become unsure, irritated and anxious. He then retreats to glum silence. 
This creates a pretty realistic picture. 
In case honourable members have not been impressed by those generalities let me now refer to the report of an incident which comes from no less a person than the Commissioner of Narcotics himself. This is not fiction, lt is documented fact.  1  suppose honourable members opposite will say: There they go again. The Minister is rushing around the place getting emotional and creating colourful pictures.' That is all very well, but it gives the impression that anyone who wants to create a barrier between these ugly things that are happening in some sort of square, to use the old word for it. Now honourable members will say I am getting emotional and wanting vo get up in the clouds. But listen to this: Hie Commissioner reported that an entire family was murdered by a youthful marihuana addict in Florida. When officers arrived at the home they found the youth staggering about in a human slaughterhouse. With an axe he had killed his father, mother, two brothers unci a sister. .He seemed to dislike his family. He seemed to be in a daze. He had no recollections of having committed a multiple crime. The interesting point is that the officers knew him ordinarily as a sane, rather quiet young man. Now he was pitifully crazed. They sought the reason. The boy said that he had been in the habit of smoking something which youthful friends called muggles, a childish name for marihuana. I would say that while the slightest possibility of anything even approaching that result exists, everyone in this House - after all, we are the leaders of the nation - should stand four-square against marihuana. I want to refer to some comments I made when a reporter from the 'Australian' newspaper rang mc in Queensland recently. I am not using this as a coward's castle. I want to refer to the comments made by  Dr Ribush  in an article that he wrote for the 'Australian Medical Journal*. The honourable member for Prospect mentioned this a little while ago.  Dr Ribush  made the statement that he knew of 20 or 30 doctors who were smoking pot, or marihuana, f do not know what has happened about this in the Queensland Parliament. It was to have blown up in the last few days. I do not know whether any action has been taken. 1 say with respect to the Minister that the first thing that should happen is that  Dr Ribush  should be interviewed perhaps by some officers of the Department of Customs and Excise. The next thing that should happen is that be should notify the police. He is condoning crime. On the question of whether or not it is a crime to smoke marihuana, I do not care what anyone says because according to the law of the land it is a crime. Here is a man of status -  Dr Ribush.  a young man of 30  -  who claims that he knows of 20 or 30 doctors who are smoking marihuana. The last thing that should happen is that the Australian Medical Association should immediately open an inquiry into this whole question. With all due respect to the medical men and associated professional men in the ranks of the Opposition, why should they have some particular form of protection? They should not have this protection.  Dr Ribush,  as I have stated outside this House, should give his full co-operation to have this whole matter investigated, firstly by the Department of Customs and Excise, secondly by the Queensland police or the police in whichever State these people ara smoking this stuff, and thirdly by his own Medical Association. I. hope that the Association is interesting itself to the extent of holding a full scale inquiry. 
 That is the sort of statement that we get from honourable members opposite. They try to ridicule decent standards that most Australians stand by. This is why these poor people on the other side will never get into power, because people who have not had political experience like some of their older and more experienced colleagues make that sort of comment, and I have taken it up because I want it to go into Hansard. I want the people of Australia to understand that this is their standard. 
The last matter 1 want to deal with is the matter of punishment. Behind all these operations affecting drugs is  Mr Big,  the fellow who sits in the background and issue* bis instructions only through a telephone. He would not even soil himself by coming in contact with the pushers. This would be  beyond him. I do not know whether this is correct or not but on the very best authority I have been told that some of the people behind the wholesale distribution of drugs are some of the allegedly most respectable business tycoons in this land and it wouldbe very surprising if  Mr Big  were to be suddenly revealed to the people of Australia. I know what I am saying. I have not taken any pot. Let us get this clear because 1 do not want any misunderstandings. The person behind the scene is pulling in the profits such as is indicated in this report which 1 have. Let us have a quick look at them. One pound of marihuana can be purchased in most south east Asian countries such as India and Pakistan, and in South Africa, for $10. Landed in Australia, taking into consideration all costs such as couriers, etc., 1 lb will sell for $150. Placed on the wholesale market in Sydney it than sells for $400 to $500, depending on quality. At this point 1 lb is divided into 1 oz lots and sold for $40 per oz. The report goes on - honourable members have heard my colleague the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who will bc here for a long time to come, refer to this - to deal with 
LSD and heroin and the end result of this is that 2 lb of material nets almost 100,000. The fellow who sits back, who would not even soil himself and who would never reveal his identity, is the man who should be subjected to capital punishment, because he is responsible for the slow destruction of the lives pf so many young people. I say that, the criminals are the people who will instil in the minds of young people the idea that this is an ordinary every day sort of operation, that they should get in with the kids and smoke pot. 
Let me refer very briefly to the findings of the American Medical Association in this matter. I will admit that these findings are not completely conclusive but while there is the slightest possibility of what I am saying being correct anyone who condones this is almost as much a criminal as is the pusher. It is alleged that the constant smoking of marihuana will create in young men impotency, and if anything this should frighten them off. In young women it is alleged that there can be difficulties with childbirth and that there can be malformations and other side effects. Last but not least - this is the one that I want to refer to particularly - is the person who graduates. They say it is not habit forming to the same extent as other drugs but the sort of person who would want to smoke marihuana has this inherent weakness. He or she frequently comes from some privileged family and has never known bad times. The trouble these days - I have heard people say this so often - is with the young privileged wealthy kids in the cities who have never known adversity and who have all the money they want. If only someone would give them a kick in the pants and send them out to the back blocks and let them feel the mud between their toes and get down to the earthy sort of things, they would not be looking for these kicks. But the point is that they are looking for kicks and frequently they graduate from marihuana to the heavier drugs. 
I repeat that  Mr Big,  the man who sits in the background and who reaps the profits, should be subject to capital punishment or if the maximum penalty is life imprisonment he should be put away for life. It is quite obvious from my point of view that the penalties now being applied for drug offences are infinitesimal. Honourable members on both sides of this House, this national Parliament, have to accept this responsibility. 1 am sure that the great majority if not all the people on the other side are misled. They come in, these extreme radicals, and they think that somehow or another they have to push these odd things, but I will not go into detail at the moment. 
I am not suggesting that the honourable member is a pusher. They feel that they have to push these extreme radical things. I am sure that in their heart of hearts they would agree with me that the whole of the energies of this House - we owe it to this nation to do' all in our power in this direction - should be directed towards applying the severest penalty not against those who are taking the drugs but against those who are wrecking the lives of so many young and older people in this nation. 
I direct my question to " the Minister for National Development. Could the Minister indicate whether the ' beef roads programme of the Federal Government, which has been of such immense value to much of the inland of Australia, will be extended when the current programme has concluded? Would the Minister agree that it is most desirable that if the programme is to continue preliminary planning should commence at the earliest possible date? 
Might I first of all say that I appreciate the concern of the honourable member for Paterson about this matter, as I have spent some time in rural areas. However, I can appreciate even more the feelings of the people of Singleton. I would like to assure the honourable member, the House and the people of Singleton that there is no question whatsoever of closing down the Army installation at Singleton it is something more than a camp. It is a very significant Army installation. We will in all probability see a change in its role in the future, but there will be no change in the importance of Singleton and no question of the significance of this Army installation waning. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The connection of private telephones is essentially a personal matter between the occupant of a married quarter and the PMG's Department. Consequently the Army does not maintain records of private telephones installed in Army controlled married quarters. 1 have however, been able to ascertain that in December 1971 there were approximately 75 telephones connected to married quarters at the Puckapunyal Army establishment. This represents about 13 per cent of the married quarters at Puckapunyal. 
A check of the Seymour telephone directory against the addresses of married quarters in that area has indicated that 3 had telephones connected. This represents 1 per cent; I could not of course vouch for the accuracy of this figure. 
In the case of Monegeetta, only 1 married quarter has a telephone connected, representing 5 per cent. 
No information is available as to the number of telephones connected to married quarters in the Bendigo area. 
 The answer 'o the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No. 
No. 
No. 
See answer to part (1). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is not available. However, a survey conducted in the area following your enquiry showed that there were 31 children's names on the waiting list for admission to pre-school at the close of the 1971 school year. This figure would include dependants of Army personnel stationed at Puckapunyal and Seymour. 
(a) During 1971, an average of 480 pupils attended the primary school at Puckapunyal. All children were dependants of military personnel and civilians resident in the Puckapunyal area. 
The number of children who attended Seymour Primary School is not known, but it is believed to be quite small. It is estimated that of the total number who attended Seymour East Primary School in 1971, about150 were dependants of military members. 
The pre-school at Puckapunyal was attended by 135 children, who were dependants of military members and civilians resident in Puckapunyal and military members resident in Seymour. None attended pre-school at Seymour. 
There are three kindergartens at Puckapunyal and one in Seymour. All Service children attend the Puckapunyal kindergartens. 
The answer to this question is provided in (1) above. 
The following fees apply at the Puckapunyal kindergarten: 
Morning attendance $10.00 per term. 
Afternoon attendance $6.00 per term. 
There are no current plans to increase preschool facilities at Puckapunyal. 
(a) The capital costs of establishing preschool facilities at Puckapunyal are not known. It is estimated, however, that the costs of rebuilding in permanent materials would be in the vicinity of $25,000. 
The recurrent costs for the year 1970 were approximately $16,000. 
Income for 1970 totalling $18,322, with percentages of total is set out below: 
The Department of the Army did not provide a cash subsidy, but the Commonwealth supplied electricity and water. 
The Victorian Department of Health's contribution was $10,301 or 56.2 per cent. 
Parent's fees totalled $4,771 or 26 per cent. 
The local Council's contributions was nil. 
$2,921 or 15.9 per cent was provided by the Puckapunyal Area Amenities Fund. (0 Miscellaneous contributions totalled $339 or 1.9 per cent. 
Television: Station TEN  (Question No. 3745) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Army records show that 2 members declaring previous service with the United States of America Armed Services have joined the Australian Army since 1965. One enlisted in the CMF in 1967 and the other enlisted in the ARA in 1968. 
I am aware of the statement made by my predecessor in regard to the new approach to the Citizen Military Forces. We are in the process at the moment of examining all aspects of this particular group of trainees. As one can well appreciate, this new system of training - to deal with that first - the ready reaction force, as it is termed, is going to produce quite a new regime in the system of military training for the CMF.- A transformation of this kind cannot be undertaken overnight. Many factors have to be considered. I can assure the Deputy Leader of the Opposition - 
Yes, but we have moved into a new phase both in regard to the CMF and in regard to the Australian Regular Army in this post-Vietnam period. I am sure be will have observed from my comments in the short time I have been in this portfolio that I personally intend to take a very lively and active interest in the CMF. I do not think that the  Deputy  Leader was really serious when he indicated that there was even a suggestion of our equipment not being up to world standards. Let me assure the honourable gentleman and all members of the Opposition that I made it my business to make a very detailed research into the world standing of the Australian military forces generally. Let me say - and I do not qualify this statement one iota - that, man for man and in the particular environment in which the Australian Army operates, it is second to none in the whole of the world. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the. Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I am sure that the House is not utterly amazed at the content of the honourable member's question. May I say in reply, that it would be rather difficult for anyone to say whether there will be  a  threat to Australia in the foreseeable future or the far distant future. We would hope, and most sincerely pray, that such a threat will not be forthcoming in the foreseeable future. 
The honourable member raised the question of national service. As he should well know, this is a matter for my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service. However, the honourable member mentioned a specific figure of 9 battalions. He must realise that the Army at the moment is going through a period of re-organisation. 
-The post-Vietnam period. Let me say this: I do not see anything amusing about the post-Vietnam period. As a matter of fact, the situation is quite the reverse. This is an era in which we have to do some pretty serious thinking, and the Army is doing that. I have the great privilege^ %  Mr" SPEAKER-  Order! When the House comes to order and interjections cease I will allow the Minister to continue. If there is to be a continual disregard of my warnings about interjections honourable members will leave me no alternative to acting very firmly. 
I was pointing out that this is a serious period for the Army. We are going into an entirely different concept and the Army is acutely aware of this. The honourable member mentioned a figure of 9 battalions. This is part of the general concept of re-organisation. I repeat what I said yesterday, and I will continue to repeat it: With the present organisation, and taking into account our present commitments and our present facilities, the Australian Army is improving and will continue to improve even beyond the reputation which it has earned as one of the finest fighting machines in the world. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A joint Defence/ Army team visited Western Australia in August 1970 as the first step in the detailed examination of the feasibility of establishing a task force base in that area. 
The results of that examination are under study in the Defence Department together with the implications relating to the use of alternative sites elsewhere. Necessarily, many complex factors need to be considered including the detailed cost studies of the various alternative plans as well as current developments such as the recent decision to reduce National Service. It is not possible at this stage to indicate when a decision will be reached. 
The proposal is not affected by the plans for Army reorganisation. 
Aborigines: Per Capita Expenditure in Northern Territory (Question No. 5135) 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Reprsentatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to:  
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Just one comment before 1 commence: It is interesting to note that Ambassador Anderson described the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  as the most fluent French  speaker  in the Australian foreign services; that is just for the record. I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate on the achievements of the Australian forces in Vietnam which have been so clearly and concisely outlined by my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his statement to ?he House on 23rd March. As the House will appreciate, I am a relative newcomer to the Army portfolio and of course I have not as yet had the opportunity to visit our forces in Vietnam. Nevertheless, from the outset. I have followed with interest and great pride the outstanding achievements of our servicemen in that theatre of operations. To me it has always been a matter for regret, and in many cases contempt, that members of the Opposition continue to do all in their power to detract from the splendid record which has been established by Australian servicemen in Vietnam. I do not for a moment suggest that the great majority of those opposite deliberately denigrate- 
I categorically withdraw any suggestion that any member on the other side of the House would denigrate the Australian soldier. I am merely repeating what was in the speech. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
AUSTRALIAN FORCES IN VIETNAM 1962 to 1972 
Members on this side of the House continue- 
I am rather surprised that the shadow Minister - it is a long shadow - for Defence should ask a question which he obviously knows should be directed to my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service. (Hon. members interjecting). 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentaryinquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Garland, Mr Street, Mr King, Mr Bonnett, Mr Brown, Mr Allan  Fraser,  Sir Winton  Turnbull,  Mr Les  Johnson,  Mr Maisey, Mr Webb, Mr McIvor  and  Mr Grassby. 
I suppose that no-one in this House is more qualified to seek information in regard to the Australian Army generally than is the honourable member for Calare. 
Go and find a yo-yo. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
Someone living near me in my home town had a blue heeler dog which would grab you by the seat of the pants and hang on. The tenacity of the honourable member for Mallee in this instance would be in that category. Having asked the question so often, he will probably well remember that 20 acres of the western boundary of the Williamstown rifle range area are in the process of being handed over to the Williamstown Council 
They are being handed over for recreational and playground purposes, because the Army always has the good of the municipality at heart. Up to date there have been intricate legal problems which have interrupted the finalisation of these negotiations. But I am sure that the honourable member, who obviously has the interests of the people of that area at heart, will be pleased to know that we are now nearing finality in regard to that matter. With regard to the range proper, as has been pointed out to the honourable member on a number of occasions, the Army cannot possibly consider moving the rifle range from that area unless an alternative site and suitable facilities are available. 
I am sure the honourable member will be well satisfied if it is another 15 years. Let me point out that if the rifle range should be removed eventually we will certainly see that the rifle clubs are well and truly looked after. 
I rarely speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House,  Mr Speaker.  The sad thing is that I have to do so in order to refute - not very kindly, either - the remarks of 2 people who, if one can forget their politics, are very nice fellows. The first one is the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  whom I like tremendously. He made a great attack on the Premier of Queensland and the policy of the present Queensland Government in the matter of Aborigines. I will answer that with just one example of the contribution which Labor made to the welfare of Aborigines. It concerns my home town of Cloncurry. After years of agitation, pleading, appealing and all sort of petitions going down to Brisbane to the Labor government of the day, it decided to meet our request for a home for transient Aborigines in a great centre where Aborigines reside in the north west. What did it build? A lot of you fellows are no doubt associated with race horses and you haVe seen a fairly decent stable. What was built for the Aborigines by the then Labor government was a large galvanised iron shed with an earth floor and not even partitions. This is one example of Labor's concern for the Aborigines^ When I go back home my Aboriginal friends say to me: 'Well, Bob, what are they going to do for us poor Aborigines now?' The point is that we do not regard them as Aborigines. THey are just our fellow citizens. They make the greatest joke of all your stirring and your attempts to arouse Aborigines into forming some sort of black power movement. If the adherents of black power down here went out into the country in my  electorate they would be lost. They would not even know how to cross Coppermine Creek. 
I rum to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).'  He is a fellow we all like. We cannot help but like the man. It is a pity that he tries to impose- 
Members of the Opposition have built up a crescendo of hatred against individuals within our Party. They have got off with it up to date but the crack is beginning to come. The veneer they have created and the smokescreen they have put up to hide the absolute futility of their policies and the completely unacceptable things, such as homosexuality and everything else that is thrown into the ring, are not acceptable to the Australian people. Members of the Opposition have a new technique. If you say something that is not acceptable to them they begin to laugh like sterilised hyenas. I will conclude by offering this challenge to them- 
I did not mean that you were a sterilised hyena. 
I will not detain the House much longer. For once, by some remarkable coincidence, I am going to finish the speech I intended to make. We now throw down the gauntlet to the Opposition. Just for one month, give up personalities and come out with your policies, boys. 
Honourable boys, come out with your policies. 
I apologise,  Mr Speaker.  If the honourable gentlemen of the Opposition will declare their policies in detail in this House and through the Press we will then see what the Australian people have to say. They have declared themselves year after year, and you can be absolutely sure that when you do reveal these policies, when the crack comes in the regimentation and the insistence on your keeping quiet, toeing the line and having no more splits for a week or two, then you will see just now accurate the gallup polls have been over the last few weeks and you will see an entirely new trend because your policies will be just as effectively rejected as they have been in the past. 
This matter of permanent accommodation for the third task force in some permanent place in Australia has been under consideration for quite some time. I know that the honourable member for Canning and many others in Western Australia are quite interested in the possibility that the task force might be established there. Let me assure him that Western 
Australiais certainly still under consideration. However, as honourable members can well imagine, the provision of permanent accommodation for a task force requires fairly lengthy consultation between a number of departments. It is not easy to arrive at a decision. Finally, I would say to the honourable member that Western Australian is still very much in the hat. 
1 can well understand the honourable member's concern because a number of people were quite distracted by that particular operation, lt is true that 24 people contacted the Department of Civil Aviation and inquired as to just what it was all about. Apparently they were 24 very distressed people. Let me stress that the actual operation is one which is held periodically - in fact, once every 12 months. The aircraft involved is hired from a civilian company - it was not a military aircraft. When DCA received the complaints it immediately checked with the aircraft and found that it was flying higher than the regulations required, which is 1,500 feet above ground level. As I have said, it is an exercise which is held periodically. The point is that it was not a military exercise; it was a Citizen Military Forces exercise. I believe it was held over the area of St Ives and Middle Harbour. I am sure that the people who were distressed will appreciate the fact that they will not have any further disturbance for at least another 12 months. I will certainly inquire further into the matter to see whether the intensity of the noise created by this 12- monthly operation can be lessened somewhat. 
The acquisition of land in the Puckapunyal area has been the subject a good deal of discussion and negotiation and I think the stage now has been reached where most parties are reasonably agreed on the solution. Admittedly, the Puckapunyal area which currently is being used is a large one. Necessarily, because the exercises conducted there involve armour and artillery, there has been quite an effect on the soil and people concerned with ecology have been very distressed about this. I might mention that we are currently spending about $100,000 on restoring the areas involved. However, I am sure that the House will realise that we are entering into a new generation of armour and artillery and it is interesting to note that very shortly we will have United States and German tanks which will have to exercise in this area. The area which may be acquired involves about 52,000 acres, of which 29,000 acres is State forest and 22,000 acres is privately owned. In regard to the second part of the question asked by the honourable member for Murray relating to the matter of compensation, this will of course be closely examined and I am sure that my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, who will deal with this matter will fully discuss it and give these people a fair go. 
-I  was personally associated with this matter before 1 took over this portfolio. I will frankly admit that it has been  a  very prolonged negotiation. It has been the subject of quite considerable representation from honourable members from various  areas  that are involved.  As  indicated by my predecessor, quite a few policy matters are involved. A marine base in Queensland just cannot be sited without quite a lot of interdepartmental discussion. This is proceeding. I regret very much that I am not able to announce a decision in the matter and I further regret thai it may be quite a little time longer before a decision can be announced. 
We all know that the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  likes to provide the House with a little entertainment and we appreciate it, particularly at this time on a Thursday evening - 9 o'clock - when we know we shall be here for another 4 or 5 hours. I should like to answer some of the statements made this afternoon and tonight. I note that generally speaking this Bill has the support of members from both sides of the House, despite the fact that some criticisms have been offered of its provisions. The grant of $9m to Queensland, authorised by this Bill, has been generally welcomed by the honourable members who have spoken in this debate. Little need be said in reply, though I feel that I must make some comments on certain remarks made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and other members of the Opposition who were clearly inaccurate. The honourable member for Oxley claimed that Queensland had been incompetent in putting its case to the Commonwealth Grants Commission and that the Commonwealth Government had exploited this incompetency. 
The honourable member drew attention to certain points made by the Commonwealth Treasury in relation to the State's submission to the Grants Commission, as summarised in the Commission's reports which were critical of the submission. The honourable member for Oxley claimed further that the Commonwealth Treasury had slammed the State Government on the royalties question and had criticised the State in other ways. That is a gross misrepresentation. I wish I was speaking about someone else because I have an affection for most of our Queensland members, whether they sit on this or the other side of the House. Perhaps they are misguided in their political loyalties but underneath it all they are good fellows. The work of the Grants Commission involves it in a detailed comparison of the finances of the claimant States with those of the 2 States which it takes as the standard, that is New South Wales and Victoria. This is a complex task made more difficult in this case by the fact that Queensland is a newly claimant State. That is significant. In the past we people up north have never come with hat in hand to the Commission asking for a grant, so it is hardly surprising that there should not have been unanimity on the precise technical procedures which should be followed in assessing a grant. 
The Commonwealth Treasury has made no comment, favourable or unfavourable, on the financial policies adopted by the Queensland Government. All it has done is to draw attention to what it believed were the implications for the assessment of the special grant of differences between the finances of Queensland, on the one hand, and New South Wales and Victoria on the other hand. There was no implication that Queensland's financial decisions and procedures were improper. I thought it unacceptable that members of the Opposition should refer to this matter. It might be noted that the Commonwealth Treasury agreed that payment of a special grant to Queensland in 1971-72 would be justified, and if I may say so, it was about time too. I must refer also to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  who is a strange fellow, a nice fellow to meet, quiet and a friendly type. Yet, he can make some of the most vitriolic statements about people who have earned the respect of the whole nation. 
The Queensland Government does not have to look for grants when it comes to solid government. It does not have to look for a grant of integrity. It does not have to look for a grant of firmness when it comes to civil disorder. Honourable members may have read recently that Jo Bjelke-Petersen, the Queensland Premier, gained 55 per cent at a national poll and is currently regarded as one of the strongest and outstanding Premiers in the nation. He knows where he is going. He is a man of the highest integrity and he has earned the support of all Queenslanders. If there were any doubt about the status of this man and his leadership let us look briefly at the results of 2 recent by-elections in Queensland. The first is Maryborough. The city of Maryborough, where I spent a good part of my youth, is known as an industrial city. Would anyone suggest for one moment that the workers, the traditional Labor supporters of that area, have suddenly abandoned their principles and said: 'We are not Laborites any more'? They have not. They have seen the Labor principles which they understood and for which they and their fathers before them fought dissipated into something that is utterly distorted and unacceptable to genuine Labor men. At the by-election in the electorate of Maryborough there was a 17.5 per cent swing against Labor. I would say that that electorate has been lost forever by the so-called Australian Labor Party. If that is not enough, take the byelection in Merthyr. It is traditional for by-elections to show a swing against the government. In the recent by-election in Western Australia a 10 per cent swing was recorded against the Labor Party candidate, although he still won the seat. What happened in Queensland? 
The Liberal candidate for the seat of Merthyr had a swing of 4 per cent his way. The people of Australia demand one thing. They demand the true Australian characteristic in their Government. They know that by electing those who sit on this side of the House they are assured of the security of this nation. Let me make it perfectly clear that I am not suggesting for one moment that many members on the other side of the House could be questioned regarding their character, integrity and concern for the people. But they have been utterly misled in committing their errors. When the chips are down we say that this grant to Queensland is utterly justified. Let me give a few reasons for saying this. I think I might be in a position to speak with some authority because I had much to do with the catastrophe which hit Queensland and to which the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  referred. This 10 to 14 year drought, as the honourable member for Dawson pointed out, hit the internal parts of that State. The small towns such as Barcaldine and Longreach and the fringe areas of the Dawson electorate were devestated by drought and declining prices for many of the commodities produced in these areas but particularly for wool. A committee composed of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett), Senator Lawrie, Senator Maunsell,  myself and others, including our advisers, the honourable member for McPherson and the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  became the focal point for the whole misery of this State. No-one knows more than we do the disaster that hit this State. It was something beyond the control of governments or individuals. 
I am not referring to the squatocracy the people who perhaps lived it up and perhaps did not prepare for the rainy day. I am referring to the third generation grazier who was perhaps a shearer who built up his property over a number of years but against whom factors conspired to bring him down to "his knees. I am referring to the ordinary railwayman who found that the extra loading was not there any more and that there was no overtime for him when he and his family had taken on hire purchase and other commitments. I am referring to the tank sinker, the fencer and the small business man such as myself. I am speaking from experience. These are the people who suffered. Fortunately they had as a leader a man of integrity, courage and concern for the people, not policies, in Jo Petersen, whose leadership has been acclaimed from one end of this nation to the other and who had a group of Ministers on whom he could rely. I am sure that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  is ashamed of what he said about this man and  Sir Gordon  Chalk. He is too nice a fellow to have really meant what he said. I am sure that when the honourable member walked out of this House he could not have believed the way he spoke and the way he besmirched these people. On 27th May he will get the Verdict. It is all very well for the honourable member for Dawson to talk about what happened in Tasmania. Let him wait and see what happens in Queensland and what happens in November of this year because a rather obvious thing has happened. The people of Australia will not be taken for granted. I noticed tonight that the honourable member for Bowman in a most airy fairy manner suggested that come May we would see a change of government in Queensland. I very much regret that the laws of Queensland prevent one going around running a book on the next election. 
I am not a betting man, but my goodness, I would like to take a bet from the Opposition. I commend the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the special manner in which it drew attention to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had arrived in Queensland. He already imagines himself as the Prime Minister of this country, God forbid. He already imagines himself sitting in the Minister's chair at the table. By the way, I never thought that I would sit in it. He has taken it for granted that the people of Australia are a lot of galahs. The difference between those who sit on the opposite side and those who sit on this side of the House is that we on this side worry about people and about the future security of this nation. We worry about the intrusion of communism. I will say it again and again. Honourable members opposite thought they has bluffed us into not using the word communism' any more. 
It has a lot to do with the Bill. I am coming to the point that the Queensland Government has set an example on decentralisation, integrity and standing firm on principles of civil order. That is why Queensland merits at least $9m. The Queensland Government has shown strength and example. If I may get off the question of communism, which throws honourable members opposite into a spin every time it is raised, might I point out as I have previously that honourable members opposite have 2 techniques when we start to speak of these matters. One is to bring up personalities because they are afraid that the Australian people will demand to examine their policies. When they start to compare policies they find, as the honourable member for Dawson, for whom I have the greatest respect, pointed out not so very long ago, that the rural policy of the Australian Labor Party is such that any Labor man who holds a marginal seat in rural areas will lose his seat at the next election. He had the courage to make that statement over the ABC, and he believed it and still believes it. He is just on the wrong side of the House. However, we are working on him. The point I am making with due respect to my colleagues from other States, is that no other government has proven and put into practice a genuine policy of decentralisation as the Queensland Government has done. Just examine its provincial cities, how they have been developed and how they have been fostered. 
This has taken place particularly over the last 10 or 15 years. As the question has come from the other side of the House I will mention the cities involved. We have seen Townsville, Gladstone, my own city of Mount Isa, Toowoomba and Warwick, one after the other, grow into important provincial cities. Queensland should be receiving not $9m but $90m. However, the grant of $9m indicates the appreciation which the Commonwealth has for what has been done in that northern State. The old story of Queensland being the  Cinderella  State has long since become a thing of the past. If nothing else is involved, every person in this nation in his heart of hearts demands one or two things. He demands that the extreme permissiveness that is creeping into society be rejected. Jo Petersen has given leadership in that  regard  and has set an example for this nation. He does not compromise. 'The Little Red Schoolbook' does not come into Queensland and that is how it goes. There is no compromise whatsoever. When there was a great hullabaloo over the Springbok rugby team he realised that sport was being used as a vehicle for a shabby political manoeuvre and he declared a state of emergency. He was represented throughout the length and breadth of this nation as some sort of nazi or hitlerite. It was rather peculiar that one television station in Queensland presented the most devastating picture of the Premier of Queensland. Then it proceeded to interview people in the street. It interviewed 9 people, and all of them commended the Premier. However, the most devastating arguments were the 2 byelections. I have already told honourable members about those. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I bring to your attention some of the circumstances leading to the application for the grant, with the result was that Queensland eventually received $9m. Admittedly, we had hoped to receive $16m. We had a drought which affected various things and then a flood. The drought produced the most drastic results in the economy. Local authorities throughout the length and breadth of Queensland were wondering how they could keep their men employed and how the landholders were going to pay their rates. With the tremendous assistance which came from the Federal Government they were able to bring this matter partly under control. The assistance was immensely appreciated. Admittedly the morale of these people was at rock bottom and they were inclined to be over critical, as they had every right to be. Anyone who moves out into that country now will appreciate fully what has been done. But nature, with the cruelty for which she is so capably equipped, then brought the floods. Fences and roads were washed away. Once more the Queensland Government had to foot the bill and go to the Commonwealth Government. There is the most superb understanding between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government. I was speaking to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  only tonight. He has been in consultation with the Premier. It was a privilege to be in touch with him. 
Opposition members have tried to burn him at the stake because they realise that unless they can break down the character and the image of the Prime Minister they will not get to first base when election time comes round. I can tell the Opposition something. In the next 6 months the Government is going to force the Opposition to bring forward its policies and let the Australian people examine them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the Minister for the Army should come back to the subject matter of the Bill that is before the House. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I appreciate your guidance. Devastation was caused by economic conditions and drought and it affected the general character of our particular part of the world where thousands of miles of road have to be attended to under any circumstances. 
Here is a fairly simple approach to this matter. I suggest that members of the Opposition should go to their various ALP branches throughout the length and breadth of inland Queensland and examine the books kept during the term of office of the Labor government. They would see just how the various applications that were made for assistance to inland areas for the development of the State were utterly rejected. They should get the books from their local branches, examine them and see whether the State would have been entitled to $9m. There is a challenge to the Opposition to bring the books forward. I regard it as a privilege to wind up this debate for the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  who has been called away. I commend the 
Government for the $9m which has been contributed to a State which is outstanding in its characteristics but, more particularly, for the manner in which it has decentralised its development and made every cent that has been contributed by the Federal Government count. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I say firstly that the only thing that did not surprise me when the honourable member asked his question was the reaction from the Opposition. I have with me some details of what has occurred over the last 24 hours. In the Queensland disturbance yesterday 50 to 60 demonstrators converged on the depot of the Queensland University Regiment and tried to gain entrance. In addition to abuse the demonstrators hurled stones which broke several windows. The demonstrators paraded with red flags. I ask members of the Opposition to comment on that. Yesterday in Adelaide 2 trucks owned by the Army, and thus owned by the Australian people, were gutted by fire andanother truck was severely damaged at the Payneham depot of 10 RASR. It is believed that Molotov cocktails were used. Police ate investigating. In answer to the second part of the honourable gentlemen's question I say that if these people want to take the Army on, I am ali-- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
The throwing of Molotov cocktails at army trucks which could quite easily contain some of our personnel is a laughing matter for the Opposition! This is quite obvious. Let me say this very decisively in reply to the honourable member for Calare: Today I am issuing an instruction to every unit and installation of the Army in this country. If this sort of killer-type dingo - this creepingoutofthedark type activity is going to continue I will give instructions that all guards be doubled, if necessary, and that we fully co-operate with the police in apprehending, bringing to book and exposing to the Australian public this type of dingo.I can describe them in no other way. In addition may I say that it is not surprising that such occurrences happen in Adelaide, which has become one of the focal points for this type of thing. It was only a few weeks ago at a top level federal conference of the Young Labor Movement that some of its members, in the presence of a member of this House, gathered around a Commonwealth car and sang with gusto - according to the Press -'The Red Flag'. 
I can appreciate the honourable member's interest in this matter. As a matter of fact, it is one of the most dominating problems that the army has in most centres, but it is not quite as accentuated in Townsville. I do not have on hand the detailed information that he requires, but I will provide him with all the necessary information. 
May I first thank the honourable member publicly for the manner in which he assisted me to probe rather deeply into this matter when I was in Western Australia. I would say that the land referred to is probably amongst the finest acreage still available, more precisely as a residential area, in the city of Perth. The position, as explained to the council at Ashfield, more particularly to my friend with whom I have a lot in common, Councillor Wheatley, is - and I want to give the honourable member this undertaking publicly - that if the Army does not use this particular area of 18 acres within a reasonable time - I do not mean 10 or 20 years - then my submission would be that the Army no longer has any use for it. Let me assure the honourable member - and he can take this back to the council - 'that we do not mean that we would use it, say, for an ordnance depot. It is in what is rapidly becoming a first class residential area. But if we require it for additional housing purposes - and, after all, you cannot have it all ways - we must must make use of this land. If the Army does not need such facilities I will most certainly agree that it has no further use for the land. But let me make it perfectly clear that it is Commonwealth land and it will be a matter for consultations between the council and the Department of the Interior as to what is done with H. The Army can merely say that it does not want to use it any more. However, the Commonwealth might have other plans for it. My colleague, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  would most certainly be the man involved in those circumstances. 
by leave - On 26th January 1972 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that in keeping with the Government's policy of modernising Australian defence, Cabinet had approved extensive changes in the command and organisational structure of the Australian Army to provide for defence tasks which could arise in the 1970s and 1980s. He gave a broad outline of the changes to be made and emphasised that the reorganised Army would be better prepared to carry out its role in the defence of Australia and its Territories, as well as making more efficient use of manpower and funds available to the Army. As it is now some 4 months since the announcement of these changes, it is appropriate, I believe, for me to give to the Parliament a report of the progress made in the reorganisation of the Army. The changes, which are farreaching, will take between 3 and 5 years to introduce in 3 broad areas. A Commonwealthwide functional system of command will replace the present geographical system in which military responsibilities are divided in accordance with State boundaries. There will be a rationalisation of logistic functions in which the entire logistic system is being restructured along functional lines and the principal logistic tasks of transport, supply and repair are being centred in 3 major corps groups instead of 7 as at present; and there will be a reorganisation of Army Headquarters along functional lines in keeping with other changes made throughout the Army. The first step has been an interim reorganisation of Army Headquarters. This is to be followed by the rationalisation of logistic functions, then the introduction of the functional system of command and lastly, the final reorganisation of Army Headquarters. In making this report I will deal with each step in turn, mentioning what is planned before outlining the progress made. 
The interim reorganisation of Army Headquarters involved a restructuring of the 4 main military branches, the provision of improved means for high level coordination and a re-allotment of responsibilities within the branches of the Headquarters. These changes were pre-requisites for the subsequent stages of the reorganisation. This interim reorganisation of Army Headquarters is complete in all major areas. The 4 main military branches have been or are in the process of being reorganised and have been given the more functional titles of Operations, Personnel, Logistic and Materiel Branches. The  Deputy  Chief of the General Staff has become the Chief of Operations, the Adjutant-General has been renamed the Chief of Personnel, the Quartermaster General has become the Chief of Logistics and the Master General of the Ordnance, the Chief of Materiel. The titles for the branches and branch heads were adopted because they fully reflect the new functional responsibilities and are much more readily understood outside Army circles. The titles Chief of the General Staff, Vice Chief of the General Staff and Citizen Military Forces Member remain. 
The proposed rationalisation of logistic functions involves a re-alignment of logistic responsibilities, the disbanding of one logistic corps and the raising of another, within the overall reorganisation of the logistic system of the Army. This is an area of extraordinary complexity and has involved detailed analysis by many specialist working groups. Most of the main studies have been completed but much more meticulous and detailed work must be done before the new system becomes operative. Inter-corps transfers of personnel will be necessary but these transfers will seldom involve changes in station of members or their families. A major factor in the reorganisation has been to minimise turbulence and its disruptive effect on members and their dependants. Under the new logistic proposals, the Royal Australian Army Service Corps will be disbanded and responsibility for the complete transport function will be taken over by the new Corps of Transport on which  Her  Majesty the Queen has graciously conferred the prefix 'Royal'. The new Corps will be known as The Royal Australian Corps of Transport and, for those specifically interested, abbreviated RACT. The supply function of the old 
Royal Australian Army Service Corps will pass to the Royal Australian Army Ordinance Corps which will also accept responsibility for providing engineer, medical and dental stores on the advice of the appropriate professional expert. The Royal Australian Electrical and Mechanical Engineers will be expanded to accept repair functions at present performed by the Royal Australian Engineers and the Royal Australian Corps of Sigials. The rationalisation I have outlined should result in more effective management of transport, supply and repair resources of the Army. Most importantly, when the reorganisation is complete there should be economies in manpower in these areas. 
I turn now to the proposed functional system of command. The field force and logistics elements of the Army as well as training establishments will be grouped into 3 functional commands - Field Force Command, Logistic Command and Training Command. Field Force Command will consist of Regular Army field units in Australia and, initially all the Citizen Military Forces. Later, when the new system has been fully developed, Citizen Military Forces units will take their place m Logistic Command and Training Command'. Logistic Command will have the overall responsibility for the logistic support of the Australian Army and will comprise all depots, base installations and logistic units within the Australian Support Area. Finally, Headquarters Training Command will be responsible for the conduct of individual training at Army training establishments and for the development of training doctrine under policy guidance of Army Headquarters. It will command some 30- odd Army schools, training battalions and training centres which, in the past, have been commanded directly by Army Headquarters, involving it in much detail. As a result of establishing these 3 functional commands the present State command headquarters will be disbanded and State and other residual matters such as works and housing, the acquisition and disposal of property, recruiting, civil emergency and general community activities, which must be performed on a geographic basis, will become the responsibility of small military district headquarters created in each State. These military district headquarters will maintain - I stress this - the close links between the 
Army and State governments which have always existed in the past and which must essentially be maintained. The structure of Field Force Command and the organisation of its headquarters, to be located in New South Wales, is currently being examined. This study extends throughout Australia because there will be elements of the Field Force in all States. A separate complementary study is being undertaken in Queensland to determine the rearrangements necessary for the Army structure in that State including the formation of a divisional headquarters in Brisbane. A further study is being undertaken in South Australia of the implications of the functional reorganisation in that State and it is hoped that the results of this study will have application in Western Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory. 
The formation of a Logistic Command has no precedent in the Australian Army. This entirely new concept requires detailed development so that the Army as a whole understands how this new Command will work. Army Headquarters is well advanced in examining the organisation of Logistic Command Headquarters and the system for the command and control of logistic units. The present Headquarters 1st Division in Sydney is to become Headquarters Training Command. In anticipation of its future role it has assumed command of all Army schools and training units and many of the responsibilities for individual training. In this case the reorganisation has in fact proceeded through the study stage to limited implementation. The headquarters is to be renamed Headquarters Training Command but, because of the interlocking nature of the reorganisation, this will not take place until such time as the other commands are raised. Subject to any contingencies which may arise, it is estimated that Training Command and Field Force Command will be raised towards the end of 1973 followed by Logistic Command in 1974. 
When the 3 functional commands have been raised, the way is then clear for the 4 military branch organisations at Army Headquarters to be reduced to 3 branches concerned with Operations, Personnel and Logistics, provided provision is made for strong co-ordination and central management. I mention these studies and achievements to show the House that since Cabinet gave its approval, the Army is pursuing vigorously the attainment of its new organisation. At the same time, there can be no reduction in training standards and operational readiness. Moreover, the alteration of the command structure makes necessary the lengthy task of rewriting procedural instructions and revising regulations and orders. I should mention also that Papua New Guinea and our Army units in Singapore will not be affected directly by the reorganisation. They are to remain under the direct control of Army Headquarters, and will experience only indirect and consequential effects of the reorganisation on the Australian mainland. 
Throughout this progress report I have referred only to the Australian Army. Along with the Army reorganisation, there is a need to provide a civilian departmental structure which will match the new functional Army concept and provide for both maximum delegation and departmental representation so that there is positive participation in Army policy development. The civilian departmental structure has been subjected to a detailed examination to determine the modifications necessary. These studies are now largely complete and it is expected that appropriate re-organisational proposals will shortly be submitted to the Public Service Board. 
The reorganisation will bring the Army more in line with the functional organisation of the other Services. For example by raising Headquarters Field Force Command with Australia-wide responsibilities and locating it in Sydney, it is close to the equivalent headquarters of the other Services, Headquarters Flag Officer Commanding the Australian Fleet and Headquarters RAAF Operational Command. In Melbourne there will be close relationship between Headquarters Logistic Command and Headquarters RAAF Support Command. 
In making this report I have endeavoured to indicate, in rather more detail than has perhaps been mentioned previously, the scope of the proposed changes and the quite considerable progress that has already been made in their implementation since the Prime Minister announced the Government's approval last January. I assure the House that the task will be completed as soon as possible, commensurate with maintaining the morale and efficiency of the Service, and as the reorganisation develops I will from time to time report to this House and the people of Australia. 
I am afraid that my reply to the honourable member will have to be brief. Actually the question of an award to  Major Clark  or any serviceman involves the 3 Services, and therefore the matter comes under the authority of my colleague the Minister for Defence. I am quite sure that the honourable member will have no difficulty in conferring with his colleague on this matter. 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
Yes.  (2), (3) and (4) Master planning of the 200 acres of land is dependent upon the completion of a current rationalisation study of supply and transport arrangements for the three Services in the Melbourne area. However, present plans indicate that about 175 to 180 acres will be required for the construction of working and administrative accommodation for transport and technical units and to provide for the expansion of units currently located at the Army complex at Broadmeadows. 
It is expected that the balance of the land will be master planned for Army housing to be constructed by the Victorian Housing Commission or the Department of Works. Such construction is unlikely to commence for some time. 
It is refreshing to hear the Deputy Leader of the Opposition ask a question in such a concise manner. Quite honestly I am breathless trying to keep up wilh his varying opinions as to what the strength of the Army would be under a Labor regime - God forbid! The position is this: Admittedly the strength of some of our battalions is down to as low as 60 per cent. That is entirely relevant. The important matter is that in a time of emergency we must have the structure of at least 9 battalions in order to meet our commitments. If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition were to probe this matter in any depth certain obvious realities would be forthcoming, such as the fact that it is necessary to have an administrative and organisational base on which to build one's forces. The training of the other ranks and the ordinary privates is not difficult, but time is required to train non-commissioned officers and officers, particularly the supporting elements to a battalion, and these are necessary if we are to have an efficient Army. Apparently the Opposition is not terribly interested in that. I was very impressed by the Prime Minister's comment yesterday that if the Opposition were to put its policy into operation not only would we not have enough troops to represent ourselves overseas but also we certainly would not have enough troops to defend this country in any way in time of emergency. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned  Sir Roden  Cutler's comments. I have had a lot to say about this matter and I have no hesitation in repeating in this House what I have said. The message does not seem to be getting through - I suppose there are none so blind as those who do not want to see - that we have at the moment a call-up system which has been decided, wisely or unwisely, by those who are closest to the operations of the Army and the operations of our defence forces. Honourable members opposite can laugh their heads off if they like; that has little effect. The point I am making is that the Governor is a busy man. He does an impeccable job as Governor but I would rather question his capacity to understand the pressures under which we now operate. The pressures are such that it has been decided by those who are interested and dedicated to the defence of this country that the present system is the best system. However, the message that does not seem to get through is that we have an ideal setup. I do hope that I am not intruding into the domain of my very distinguished colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service. As the tempo of our volunteer force builds up, so the tempo of our national service scheme begins to get a little slower. I know that the defence of this country is highly amusing to honourable members opposite; this is perfectly obvious. There is no honourable member on this side of the House, every single one of whom is dedicated to the security of this country, who would not like to see and be guaranteed- 
 I wish that I were able to give something a little more definite in reply to the honourable member for Stirling since we discussed this matter previously. I was able to get a bird's eye view of this particular area because we flew over it in a helicopter when I was over there. I certainly agree that a coastal road around the Swanbourne area would be most desirable. Unfortunately there have been very prolonged discussions about this matter, primarily with the City of Nedlands Council, and now, as I think the honourable mem ber will agree, we are getting down to material discussions - I admit they are a little prolonged - with the Perth Metropolitan Regional Planning Committee. That is an excellent body of people who are taking a constructive point of view wherever possible. 
I would like to be able to say that we will be able to move this training area but the Australian Regular Army, the Citizen Military Forces, the cadets and other people are using the rifle range and the area. Quite honestly, at the moment, I do not see an alternative to retaining the site. I must agree that it is most desirable to have this coastal road from the northern to the southern suburbs. I assure the honourable member, most decisively, that I will make every attempt to step up the tempo of the investigations into this matter in an endeavour to come to some compromise so that this road can be constructed. 
I want to talk tonight about the need for national service, why we must have an Army of 40,000, why we cannot achieve this by voluntary enlistment and briefly what effect the abolition of national service would have on the Army. In 1964 we had a regular Army of fewer than 23,000 men. Hostilities were taking place in several areas in South East Asia and the situation was deteriorating. A comprehensive review of our strategic situation, covering existing commitments and likely contingencies, revealed a need to increase the strength of the Army to some 40,000 in less than 2 years. The recruiting campaign was stepped up, servicemen's pay was increased and moves already in train to improve conditions of service continued. These measures increased re-engagement rates to some extent but the effects on recruiting were marginal. 
It was apparent that the required increase in Army strength could not be obtained by voluntary means alone. It was decided reluctantly that there was no alternative but to introduce selective national service. Remember that this decision was made before any commitment had been undertaken to send battalions to Vietnam. The Army had to be increased to meet our overall requirements. At the height of the Vietnam commitment tnt Army was increased to some 44,000 men. Following withdrawal of our combat forces from South Vietnam we reduced our full time Army to about 40,000. I should explain here that the Army must ensure that it has in being a field force of a size sufficient to meet its assigned roles. Much has been said by the Opposition on the number of infantry battalions required. Let me make this clear: The Army does not assess the size of force it requires in terms of infantry battalions, but rather on the size of the formations required. 
The need is for the framework of a division which in turn means the framework for 3 task forces each of 3 infantry battalions, although this can be varied to suit particular circumstances. We have in being the organisational framework for 9 battalions and this provides the potential for units to be trained collectively in a divisional setting. In addition, the 9 battalions provide some 1,800 officer and non-commissioned officer positions. These in turn provide the training ground for some 1,900 similar positions in command, administrative and training establishments. It is important that the professional careers of infantry officers and NCOs be built around a balanced experience between staff and regimental appointments. If we reduce the number of battalions we automatically reduce the scope for regimental experience, with the result that the balance is tipped in favour of staff and training appointments. This is undesirable, particularly as infantry - with armour and artillery - represents the primary combat element of the force. 
Members of the Opposition should take particular note of the fact that  Sir Thomas  Daly, who is highly recognised as a military expert and who has no reason to be anything but impartial, supports this kind of structuring of our Army. He recently stated that the present attitude of the Australian Labor Party would in ali probability cut our Army by half if it were ever implemented. The strength of our defence forces is not measured solely by the numbers actively serving. That is a most important point. Apart from filling the Regular Army ranks to the level of 40,000 required, a secondary but most important purpose of national service is to insure against emergencies by building up a reservoir of trained soldiers in the community, as was mentioned quite specifically by my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his splendid speech last night. Every year since 1967 some 8,000 national servicemen have been added to the Regular Army Reserve on completion of their full time service. This has meant that we have a reserve already of 40,000 fully trained and experienced men. In addition, many men of military age joined the Citizen Military Forces and were trained there, having selected the CMF as an alternative to national service. The importance of this asset of military manpower is most considerable. 
The point  1  wish to stress is that you just cannot create an army overnight. It takes time to train soldiers and to give them experience with formed units. As far as numbers are concerned, there must be a balance. The numbers called up each year have been assessed on the highest professional military judgment as those required to meet known military requirements. National service as implemented has been an outstanding success in achieving its purpose, and national servicemen have been integrated completely into the Army. I think that most of them are very proud to be in the Army. They receive the same conditions of service as regular soldiers. Their training is identical. National servicemen are indistinguishable from other members of the Army. They have acquitted themselves splendidly with credit on active operations and in general service, in the highest traditions of the Australian serviceman. Many national servicemen have been trained as specialists in various fields, and every effort is made to make full use of civilian acquired skills where compatible with military needs. 
Despite the clamour against national service by an organised and vocal minority, opposition to the call-up has not been shown by the overwhelming majority of those directly affected. It has always been this Government's aim that as large a percentage as possible of our forces be volunteers. No Service can be an effective force without those experienced officers and NCOs with the training and experience that comes from long service. The Government has taken considerable initiative to improve pay and conditions of service and other aspects of Service life to assist in attracting voluntary recruits to the Regular Army. Recent improvements in voluntary enlistments have had only a marginal effect on Regular Army strength. Whilst most encouraging, the improvement has not as yet been sufficiently sustained to be taken as an indication that the upward trend will necessarily continue - we hope to God it will - to the point where a wholly volunteer army of the size required could be achieved and maintained. Under these circumstances national service remains a vital requirement to bridge the gap between the volunteer element and the necessary total of about  40,000. 
The Labor Party, by eliminating national service, would reduce the Regular Army to below  29,000.  The majority of these reductions would be private soldiers, resulting in a serious imbalance in the overall structure. In fact there would be military chaos. It is obvious that with a cut from  40,000  to  29,000-  a reduction of about  30  per cent - combined with the elimination of the requirement for training national servicemen at a turnover rate of  18  months, there would be a corresponding reduction in the officers and NCOs required for the reduced force. The Opposition would put a stake through the heart of the Australian military forces. The extent of the redundancy thus produced would have a damaging effect on our Army's morale. Apart from the resignations which would doubtless result it could have the double-edged effect of deterring new and potential recruits and those who might otherwise have re-engaged. The net effect could only be to reduce an Australian Labor Party-type army to a level much lower than  29,000  men. 
The Army is not maintained at a certain level merely to provide career prospects for its members, but in modern times this factor is an important aspect of morale and in attracting and retaining the sort of people the Army requires. Hence it is a potent aspect of Army efficiency and its capability of training for whatever form of active operations it may be called upon to meet. A Labor Government would produce a mass exodus of experienced officers and non-commissioned officers from the Army. That would mean a serious loss of the professional and technical skills which have been developed over a long period, which would seriously affect the efficiency of the remnant of the Army. On the operational side the effect of the cut would be to reduce drastically the number of battalions which, according to our best professional military advice, would have serious effects on our capacity to conduct military operations even on a considerably reduced scale. A corollary to this would be that the levels and nature of units remaining would preclude training of the kind required to develop a competent modern Army. Professionalism would most certainly decline and at an accelerating rate. 
I turn now to the Citizen Military Forces. The shadow Minister for Defence dwelt quite a good deal on the CMF and the fact that the Minister for Defence did not mention it. Of course he did not, but why did he not do so? Because he knew that one of his ministerial colleagues would be following him in the debate and would deal with it. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spoke of the deterioration in the role of the CMF. If there has been a deterioration in that wonderfully Australian characteristic of wanting to get into the Army and serve, it has been due very largely to the vicious elements which the Opposition has infused into the community. I remember that just a year or two ago in this House someone mentioned - I cannot recall who it was - that by stimulating cadet training we were making militarists; in other words, from the early beginning the Opposition has been brainwashing our young men not to join the CMF and not to be involved in the defence of this country. 
The CMF has received a momentous amount of my own involvement. It might interest those people who take such a lively interest in the destruction of the Australian Army to learn that only last Sunday the best brains in the whole of the nation sat for a full day - for hour after hour - considering the future role of the CMF and making plans which I hope to be able to announce in the near future. The CMF would lose its national service optees and could consequently fall virtually overnight to about 19,000 men if Labor were in office. A CMF at this level could well be no longer viable and would probably require a complete restructuring. The availability of regular cadre staff in support of the CMF also would be reduced. The combined effects of this and a reduced overall CMF strength would no doubt further erode the effectiveness of CMF training and its capacity to attract volunteers. 
The CMF, as a back-up force to the Regular Army in times of national emergency, is a vital part of our overall defence structure. It is apparent that in this area as well our defence capability would be impaired if not seriously mutilated. It is no exaggeration to say that the elimination of national service and the reduction of the size of the Regular Army to fewer than 29,000 men would not only emasculate the Army - both the Regular Army and the CMF - and impair its efficiency but also would produce side effects which would militate strongly against subsequent efforts to increase volunteer strength. 
May I say, finally, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, like his Leader and a number of his colleagues who strut around reflecting the jackboottype attitude of their Fuhrer, Herr Hawke, forget that the 'heil, heils' and the false sense of victory are coming from a small minority - the dropouts. I have no doubt that some of the $500,000 that has been amassed by the Labor Party has been compulsorily acquired from the unions, many members of which do not subscribe to its brand of politics. The Labor Party has storm troopers all around the country creating fictitious smokescreens but it has overlooked one thing, that is, the inherent character of the people of Australia and their determination to resist any move which threatens the security of their country. This is but one rock on which the Labor Party will perish at the next election. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to be constantly concerned with the actual statistics relating to the rise and fall in the number of volunteer recruits for the Australian Army. I will supply the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with detailed answers to the questions he has asked. I would add, before I resume my seat, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to be constantly concerned about the Government's attitude to volunteers, who are coming forward very readily at the present time. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wants a specific answer with specific numbers; he will get it. What has him rather concerned, no doubt  Mr Speaker,  is that those numbers tell the Australian nation a very clear story, that is, that if the policy of the Australian Labor Party is put into effect the security of this country will be put very much at stake. I have repeated this again and again. That is why it appals and worries the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that I should offer to give him a detailed answer to the question he has asked. But let me make it perfectly clear, as the Minister for Defence has and as I have done on numerous occasions, that we will retain our present system as long as the requirements of this nation demand what, according to the experts- never mind about the armchair experts- is an Army of an absolute minimum of 40,000. I make one other point while I am oil my feet, that is, that not only is this a .matter of the security of this country; there will be an additional reservoir of unemployment should the policy of the Opposition be put into effect. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records show that some 49,166 rounds of artillery, mortar and anti-tank ammunition were fired on the Holsworthy Range during the 12 month period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1972. The break up of the particular type of ammunition 
Overseas Students in Australia (Question No. 5843) 
-I am personally staggered, not so much by the honourable member's performance- 
This is the way he carries on all the time but this is a very- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) Order! 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Army units have been based in Singapore since October 1969. During this period Malaysian and Singaporean troops have taken part in one major exercise with Australian troops- Exercise Bersatu Padu in June/July 1970. Co-operation In other fields of training has been maintained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is not aware of any current public statements concerning closure of the Geelong Rifle Range and release of the land to municipal control. 
No consideration is being given to any such proposal as the range is extensively used by CMP, Cadets and Rifle Clubs based in the Geelong area. 
I assure the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  that I shall most certainly take up on his behalf the supply and price of ammunition. I should point out to the honourable member that these matters do not come within my responsibility as Minister for the Army but are more matters for the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  Nevertheless I shall have great pleasure in passing this information to the Minister. I agree entirely with the honourable member's comments, particularly in regard to the value of rifle clubs. I think honourable members will agree that not only do the rifle clubs throughout Australia do a wonderful job but also they attract a splendid type of fellow into their ranks. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903-1970, I present the annual report of the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1971 to 31st January 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As Army staffs are heavily committed to their military tasks, I do not propose to authorise the extensive and time consuming survey which would be required to obtain the information sought by the honourable member from over two thousand Army families in the Holsworthy/ Ingleburn area. 
I would say first that it is a pretty fair question. In answer to the first part, which related to the high rejection rate of volunteers, I remind him that a few weeks ago in a question he made a point of that very situation. Perhaps the reason for the high rate of rejection is now becoming clear to the honourable gentleman and probably he can now see why these high standards are necessary. I discussed this matter with some of my medical friends over the weekend. It is rather difficult to detect those people who might be on the verge of a psychiatric reaction. The condition of a person who is mentally unstable may not be apparent until he is subjected to pressures such as are encountered in an institution like the Army. 
Turning now to the more important part of the honourable gentleman's question, I am having investigated not only the allegations regarding Puckapunyal and Kapooka but also the complete situation regarding attempted suicides and suicides in the military forces. I have further asked that in the report to be furnished comments be made on the reaction of the men to some elements of our training programme which might cause unfortunate pressures to be exerted on these young men. I am not suggesting that there are those pressures but it is a possibility. I have asked for a comprehensive report and I hope that it will be forthcoming shortly to enable me to make it available to the nation. 
I made is perfectly clear when I took over this portfolio that apart from matters affecting national security I wanted to reveal to the Australian public how our Army works, the pressures involved and how our soldiers react to various circumstances. In this respect the Press has helped me very considerably and we have brought the Army much closer to the people of Australia. This is the situation. I hope that when the Prime Minister reveals the date of the election I can step up the tempo of this investigation to produce all the relevant facts prior to the rising of this Parliament if at all possible. 
First of all, my answer briefly is yes. The people who are presently suffering injuries or illnesses of a minor nature are treated at the 4th Camp Hospital at Pallarenda. Admittedly this hospital is of a temporary nature, but not for one moment would anyone suggest, except for one or 2 irresponsibles - of course, they are regarded as S-star irresponsibles in any case - who have made statements from time to time in the Press, particularly in North Queensland, that the hospital has anything but the usual high standard that we provide for the Army. But let it be well and truly understood- the honourable member for Herbert well knows this because no-one has involved himself more constructively and been more dedicated to the Army particularly and. the Services generally - that not for one moment would anyone with any sanity suggest that the people who go into that hospital are not receiving splendid treatment. However, I would point out that the serious cases and the cases requiring further care are .sent either to the public hospital in Townsville or to the Mater Hospital. In replying to the final part of the honourable member's question, I would point out that this matter is receiving very high priority, and I would rather hope that the very modern and very permanent hospital that we have planned for" Townsville  will commence within the next 2 years. 
 . CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION 
 The only comment I have to make in regard to the speech just made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  is that he has further exposed the contempt which his pseudo Labor Party has for the defence of this country. 
In the limited time at my disposal I want to inform the Committee of some new developments in our plans for increasing the tempo and operational readiness of the Citizen Military Forces. Broadly, the major changes planned for the CMF cover 3 main areas: A higher degree of integration in training with the Regular Army is to be achieved; more interesting and varied training, including adventure type training, will be provided: and a special force, trained to a higher state of readiness than has previously been possible in the CMF, is to be raised. These are significant developments which are part of the overall review which is being undertaken in order to revitalise the CMF, to make it more interesting and attractive to young men and to encourage them to undertake parttime service in defence of this country. 
The Government places great importance on the continuing need for Australia to have a strong and viable CMF to augment the regular forces in situations short of full scale war, and to provide the nucleus for expansion of [he Army, should this be required. Honourable members will appreciate that this role is becoming even more vital in an era where there is an increasing requirement for Australia to develop its own capability to serve its own strategic interests. The popular catchcry that there is no obvious threat to Australia within the next 10 years has led some people to the dangerous and outrageous conclusion that the Army could not only be reduced in size, but also be allowed to stagnate in terms of operational efficiency and morale. I think it is quite ridiculous for the honourable member for Wills to compare the situation we had at the time of the Russian threat and when we built Fort Denison and other places with the situation today in which we are almost completely isolated in this part of the world. 
As far as I am concerned, this is just not going to happen. No matter how favourable the current situation may appear to be, it is the height of folly to suppose that a threat to the security of Australia cannot develop at any time. Armies, like other elements of the defence forces, cannot be produced overnight. There are long lead times involved. 
I now want to say something about the operational readiness of the OMF. This matter was mentioned in the Parliament during the latter part of  1971  when the need was seen for a force within the CMF which would be capable of deployment on relatively short notice thus increasing the CM F's ability to react quickly to emergent situations. Considerable study has been given to this project and I am now able to confirm that a new force to be known as the CMF Ready Reaction Force is to be raised. In the remaining time at my disposal  1  will outline the concept of the new scheme. Three CMF battalion groups of flexible composition will be nominated on an Australia-wide basis and these will be maintained at varying stages of readiness. Under the direction of the Headquarters of Commands, First, Second and Third Divisions will be, each responsible for the raising and training of a battalion group. This group will consist generally of a nucleus of infantry of about battalion size and supporting elements which could include armour, artillery, engineers, signals and appropriate service units. The.  3  groups will together form the Ready Reaction Force, but as the concept is new and will almost certainly require modification and change as experience in the formative stages dictates, it is planned initially that one group each year will be brought to a higher state of readiness and its training will culminate in an exercise designed to test its standard. This exercise might be conducted overseas; but if this is not practicable it will most certainly be held in a suitable area in Australia. 
An important feature of the scheme is that all CMF units will have the opportunity of being included in the Force. The battalion group to be raised from units in New South Wales will have its standards tested by an exercise in  1974.  In  1975  the second battalion group will be provided from units in Victoria, and in  1976  units from 
Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania will form a third integrated battalion group. During  1973  the units selected from New South Wales will undertake intensive training and preparation for their exercise in  1974.  At the same time selection of units for the second and third groups will be proceeding. This will not be confined to the larger concept of the operation, but units and sub-units will at the same time be having the advantage of this new type of training and this new sense of purpose and achievement. When determined, those units will concentrate their efforts, within their parent States, on achieving the highest standards of company level training which will culminate in their large scale exercises, as indicated, in  1975  and  1976.  This training programme leading up to the exercises will be designed to be both stimulating and attractive, to bring these units up to the desired peak of efficiency. All members who qualify for the Ready Reaction Force will wear appropriate dress insignia. I am sure they will wear it with immense pride. 
The Ready Reaction Force will be selected from the most efficient elements of the CMF. It is expected that its existence will create a competitive spirit throughout the whole of the CMF and this should lead to improved standards and heightened enthusiasm. I should mention that I have been concerned for a long time with the apparent lack of public awareness of the task being done by the CMF and the value to be derived from such service, particularly in the field of man management and the development of leadership qualities. This sort of education of the community I believe to be essential and every opportunity is now being taken by my Department to develop this theme. 
Finally, I am continuing to probe on a grass roots basis - with a good deal of success, I might mention - to ascertain a consensus of opinion from CMF members and supporters regarding views which will stimulate more colour, more imagination, greater responsibility at the NCO level and other changes which will not only attract but also hold a largely increased CMF volunteer force. This is the sort of education of the community we desire to achieve. 
I think I would be failing in my responsibility as a Service Minister if I did not attempt with all the vigour at my disposal to get the message across loud and clear to the Australian people. 
Let me turn to the Labor Party's so-called defence policy. What an appalling situation this really is. The Labor Party has many prominent members who have a splendid war record. I know how embarrassed and humiliated they must be to have to align themselves publicly with a policy which would inevitably destroy Australia's capacity to defend itself. I instance the quite tragic proposal to reduce the number of infantry battalions. I have stated time and again that we need an absolute minimum of the structure of a division and this means a base of 9 infantry battalions. It is absurd to suppose that Australian military defence can be adequately undertaken with anything less than the structure of a division. What a farce it is to suggest that this would provide anything more than a token force. 
I need not remind the Committee, and I am sure even members of the Opposition would agree, that the reputation of the Australian soldier and of the Army generally is world renowned. This reputation has been enhanced by our commitment in Vietnam where Australian soldiers have continuously, over a period of 10 years, been involved. The Labor Party wants this magnificent force to be dismembered. Do honourable members opposite really understand exactly what the result of this would be? I am darned sure they do not. There would be an immediate and progressive loss of morale, a disintegration of the pool of expertise which has been built up over the years, and finally the situation would arise where Australia could not militarily defend itself. But the Opposition says that there is no threat. What does the Opposition want us to do? Does it want us to accept this state of stagnancy in our defence structure? Does it want us to be undefended? Well, its policy is loud and clear. Anything less than we have would be a farce. The Regular Army would be reduced to a state of operational ineffectiveness and the CMF would fall virtually overnight to about 19,000. At that level the CMF would no longer be viable and would probably require complete re-structuring. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  with all his sanctimonious regard for the CMF, is going to disband one-third of the Australian Army. There is another extremely important consideration. Let me make it clear that not for one moment do I suggest that national service or any form of military training would be a sure means of taking up unemployment. But those people who continually scream about the unemployment situation will not admit - I challenge them to admit it - that with a disintegration of the Army there would be created not only a pool of unemployment from the Army itself but a pool from the great group of civilians who are dependent on the Army. I think the Australian people should be warned but I doubt that they need it. The Opposition has been most uncomfortable. Its supporters have even stopped the hyena type of laughing that they go on with. 
There is one hyena left, I am sorry to say. When Opposition supporters saw that the gallup poll rating of 43 per cent, which gave us a majority of 9 members at the last election, suddenly went up to 45 per cent they started character assassination but the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was one too good for them. I felt I should warn the Australian people, as though they need it. They are fully aware of the utter danger to this country should, God forbid, those gentlemen on the other side of the chamber ever get into office. 
I think the last part of the question of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition may be answered by saying that no member on our side of the House would ever favour the cutting out of national service if there was any risk whatsoever of the numbers in our Army dropping below those required. I welcome the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition be cause it will enable me to clarify what I actually did say. This was that, should he rate of volunteers reach a point where we achieved in our Army the numbers that we want, we would not cut out national service but national service would in all probability remain dormant. Then, if the numbers of volunteers- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
It is not amusing. 
1 am pleased that the honourable member brought up this matter. Reference k made today in the 'Australian' to the expenditure involved in the renaming of the new Army light observation helicopter. 
I can well appreciate the honourable member's question because it was a subject that we used to discuss frequently before I took on my present responsibilities. The policy of the Government is that, wherever possible, we use locally manufactured goods and local products, whether they be of a primary or a secondary industry nature. As regards wool, there has been close liaison between the clothing development section and the general research branch of the Army and the Services generally, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Australian Wool Board, with the result that wherever possible a wool fibre is used. I am very pleased to be able to inform the honourable member that something like 40 articles have either a 100 per cent wool content or the greater part of the content is wool. 
I also would like to make a small contribution to the remarks that have been passed about Bill Riordan. He was a lifelong friend of my family and I just cannot remember when I did not know him. He certainly gave years of splendid service to the electorate of Kennedy; in fact the Riordan family became a tradition which commanded a great deal of honour and respect in Queensland. Bill never got things the easy way. He became a barrister because he was determined to be one. He came up the hard way. He then had 30 years as the representative of the electorate of Kennedy and did his duty in such a way that I am yet to hear any member of any party question his dedication and sincerity. When Bill died and word got around the back country there was a great wave of sympathy in Queensland.  His  remaining relatives are his 2 sisters. J think Nancy is best known to us and I agree with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  that Kath also was a splendid person. 
Bill Riordan distinguished himself in many ways. He was  Chairman  of Committees in this Parliament for some years. He was admitted to the Bar by the Barristers' Board, having got there the hard way. He eventually became Minister for the Navy. At that time we shared the great pride that his family took in him and 1 endorse all that has been said about him. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said, he was a big man, and he was. He was big "m every possible way. When a case was handed to Bill Riordan, and I put some before him, he just did not deal with it formally and send a reply in the ordinary way. He saw it through. He had a sincerity and dedication towards the people and causes in the area that made him a part of our history and a very proud part of it too. I am indeed honoured to follow in his footsteps. 
I strongly support the point of view expressed by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  because the problems they have exposed in this House exist in most of the rural areas of this great nation. Knowing the pattern of the man, I feel confident that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will give very sympathetic consideration to these problems. The 2 major matters I want to speak about may at first glance appear to be somewhat parochial but they most certainly are not. They have a definite impact on the whole of this nation. The first matter is the critical and urgent necessity for the construction and completion of the Julius Dam to supply water to the city of Mount Isa and the huge mining complex there which contributes in so many ways, not the least of which is the employing of many thousands of Australians, to the national economy. One can find in Mount Isa people from all States, most of whom are there permanently although there are many transients. There are ethnic groups, mainly Finns, who have made their residence in the city of Mount Isa. 
A most critical stage has been reached in the water supply for the community and to keep in operation what is now the largest rnining complex of its kind in the world. It should not be argued, as has been argued from time to time, that you cannot give special consideration, to this matter and that the granting of the amount necessary, to which I propose to refer in a few moments, could be taken as a precedent for similar grants in other parts of this country. Here is a complex that is contributing vastly to the overseas credits of this nation and, of course, to our own national earnings as well as to the employment of thousands of Australians. There is an urgent need for at least $4m to be provided. This is a very small sum to ensure the security of not just the city of Mount Isa. We are developing various areas up there. 
There is the huge concept for the development of phosphate rock in the Yelvertoft area, as we know it up there, and the Lady Annie area. These are terms which are better known domestically. This complex could involve the expenditure of $100m or more, and it does not involve just the operations of another mining complex. We can foresee that with the production of the raw product, phosphate rock, secondary industries will begin to emerge in the area. Highways would be built and there would be a pipeline to the Gulf. Already a port has been planned in that area and this, of course, would lead to the wholesale export of beef cattle and other commodities from that corner of the continent. This would not have a great effect on the port of Townsville. We visualise the growth and development of that area on such a vast scale that both ports would be kept extremely busy. I most earnestly appeal in this matter to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  He knows the area; he is sympathetic to it. I have no doubt that in him we will have an advocate who will press our case. But the one great doubt I have is how the Cabinet will receive a submission from the Minister for Northern Development. I hope it will be received with greater sympathy than previous submissions he has made. 
I again point out that there is a critical urgency about this matter and I am not exaggerating the case at all. The Queensland Government is making a significant contribution; Mount Isa Mines Ltd is making a significant contribution. It is a matter which affects the whole of this nation and I appeal to the national Parliament and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Cabinet to treat this matter with the utmost urgency and to make a contribution which in the scope of things and in relation to the size of this vast mining complex is not very great, but would be at least $4m. 
The other matter 1 want to deal with concerns the completion of roads already planned and the provision of additional funds for another scheme. I am not sure whether the present Government would call it a- beef roads scheme or whether it would call it something else, but here again this is not a parochial matter. The roads that I have in mind link up with the whole of the national highway system. What has brought me to the point of presenting this matter here tonight is the great emergency that arose during the recent wet in Queensland, the Northern Territory and northern New South Wales. The whole transport system was brought to a standstill because of the poor sealing of the road between Mount Isa and Townsville. There are some ISO miles of very bad dirt road which is bad, particularly in the wet. A truck can get bogged down in a flash. There is an urgent requirement for the completion of the north-south road between Cloncurry or Julia Creek - some place in that area - and either Barcaldine or Longreach to link up with the bitumen surfaced road which then projects down south into New South Wales and Victoria and links up with what will become a great national highway. 
I will accept that interjection. I quote the Prime Minister today. We spent tens of millions. Maybe the honourable member who is interjecting will start throwing some of his dirty vitriolic mud, as he did today, because he is like a didgeridoo; he makes a lot of noise; he is full of emptiness; all he can do is throw mud. I return to this matter of what in effect will be a national highway. When the matter of bringing troops back from Singapore was before us today the Prime Minister made a very significant comment. He said that we do not want our combat troops in other countries; we want them back in Australia. This is a matter I would love to debate with him for some time, but at least that is the concept of this Government. In other words, it says that the whole focus of the defence system must be in this country. I would say that there is a serious missing link in our roads system for the transport of troops, commodities, weapons and so on. As long as this link is missing, that is all that is required to create chaos in a national emergency. Our roads are a most strategic part of this nation. So, forgetting the absolute importance of this matter from an economic point of view to the Northern Territory, to Queensland and to the whole of this nation, we can argue on the basis of defence, alone that this road should be completed, with national finance. I refer to the road link between Townsville, which has become .our most important national military complex :and another great highway, which comes down to the south to link up with what is already a bitumen surfaced road. The distance is not that far. We could get down into that central western area and link up with the bitumen surfaced road. These matters are of great national importance. I appeal to the Minister for Northern Development to look into this matter. He knows the areas concerned. He is a great believer in the north. I feel that he will put our case most effectively. I hope that Cabinet receives it with the same consideration. 
I do not want to go over all the old ground that has been covered in regard to revaluation and its effect on industries such as the wool, beef cattle, minerals, sugar and dairy industries. However, before I commence my remarks on these Bills, I should like to bring to the attention of those honourable members who are present in the chamber - there are few enough - the quality of member we now have representing the electorate of Berowra. It is quite refreshing to see an academic of his status who has such an understanding of the human element and the problems that affect people. After all, that is why we should be here; that is what Parliament is all about. I should also like to make brief reference to comments made by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  He made elaborate comments on the 100 or so days of this Government and referred to the regime of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Certain elements of the media talk about the Prime Minister being a second Menzies or Abraham Lincoln; refer to the reign of 100 days, trying to condition the minds of the people of Australia to make them believe that they have entered into some great new perfumed garden. I will go into details on that later. 
The position in electorates represented by people such as myself, the honourable members for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and many others, whether we admit it or not - we on this side of the House will never cease to draw attention to the focal point of the ingredients of tragedy that lie in the fundamental policies of this Government; I am not being over-emotional when I say that - is affected by the policies of the Government. The Government has almost a paranoia about people who are in the inland. It developed as it sat by for 23 years and saw this country develop because of the immense production in rural areas. I am one who will not for one moment deny the contributions made by urban and metropolitan areas. It takes two to tango and one without the other is futile. But let us keep the thing in equilibrium and not bring into existence a regime which is determined - in every measure it has tried to plaster over its intention and in every measure if we probe deeply enough we find these ingredients - to penalise people who do not live in urban and metropolitan areas. 
Again I repeat and I will repeat it for the next 3 years, if this Government goes that long, that not for a moment do we on this side of the House fail to recognise the rights and entitlements of people in the cities and provincial areas. We would be idiots if we did because we are dependent for the consumption of our products upon the growth and vitality of our great cities, and the people in the cities - let us mark this well - depend so much upon the productivity of, the virile production and the expansion of production in rural areas. I remember well the great and tragic drought and the market conditions which were reacting so tragically on the lives of people in inland areas and how the economy of the urban areas suffered. In the 15 or 16 minutes left of my time tonight I will not pretend for a moment to be carrying a brief for the great mining companies and the great overseas and local combines which own vast tracts of land. The big people associated with these industries are well and truly capable of watching their own interests and finances. They have reserves of knowhow and vast reserves of funds and can carry their own brief. But I am deeply concerned for every person in Australia when I see the very vitals and the characteristics of our nation twisted into ugliness, as they are now. 
However, let me get back to the subject of the revaluation and the effect it had on these industries. I am concerned for those who are dependent on these industries and let me take as an example the greatest mining complex in this nation which is located at my headquarters, Mount Isa. This is a great and prosperous city with wonderful ethnic groups of people from all nations who have combined to form a magnificent community. There were great hopes in the area that very shortly the northern leases would commence operation. What ate the northern leases? They are another little Mount Isa all over again. They are located some 8 to 12 miles from Mount Isa. It is sad to go out there now and see where millions of dollars have been invested in such a vast operation which would employ perhaps 3,000 good Australians and bring to the area all that would come with such an operation indirectly. The sign which pointed to Hilton Town - 1 mile' has been covered over. Why? Because, like so many other operations it has been frozen suddenly because those concerned do not know what the future holds. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has thrown out a few hints lately and they have an ominous content. If he is thinking of nationalisation, and he could well be doing that, he should look at the lesson which history has taught us and particularly at what we once regarded as the European family, the family from which we have been emotionally expelled and will very soon be effectively expelled because we are becoming more and more regarded as a member of the communist bloc. Would that be any wonder in view of the frantic wooing of communist countries? It is said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is a second Menzies. I would say that he is a second frenzy because he has one frenzy after another in his mad endeavour to move up into the communist bloc. Why? This is one of the great, free nations left in the world and no-one - most members have moved around the world on some political trip or other - can deny that Australia has always been regarded as a great nation. Our standard of living has moved from third best to second best in the world. But quite suddenly we get a group of people coming into power in this nation, wanting to twist our ideologies and change the whole character of this country. I wonder what would happen if we went to the people tomorrow following  Senator Murphy's  operations which have yet to be debated. 
The effects of revaluation on the little man in country areas, particularly in a vast area such as the one 1 represent, are very worrying indeed. First and foremost, dealing more specifically with mining, employment opportunities have been brought to a standstill. It is interesting to note one or two comments that have been made and I will read them. One says: 
In order to estimate the direct losses in mineral export revenue it is necessary to distinguish between those minerals sold on the open market- 
I am being perfectly objective in expressing this viewpoint as will be noticed as I go on a little. It continues: 
. those sold on long term contracts and exports that constitute inter-company sales. The estimated losses are based on previous projections of mineral export revenue for 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
That statement was made by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and, by the way, I was giving a 1971 evaluation. The estimates take into account only the December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar of 7 per cent and the devaluation of the United States dollar against gold by 10 per cent on 14th December. The statement continues: 
On the basis of projected export earnings for minerals sold on the open market, of which Australia is not a dominant supplier, the loss to revenue for 1973-74 is expected to be about $ 34m. In addition domestic prices for copper, lead and zinc are based on prices converted from sterling and so producers would also incur a loss. 
This is where the statement goes further to substantiate another quotation which I will make in a moment. It continues: 
The loss on domestic sales of these minerals is estimated to be about $10m in 1973-74. 
Another authority has said: 
The latest revaluation of 7.05 per cent will cost the mining industry about $100m per annum at a time when metal prices are depressed and production is well below capacity. The figure is substantially higher than the 1971 loss due to the unilateral revaluation on this occasion. 
The point I want to make is that these losses have occurred. It would be quite stupid to say that the drop in the revenue of these mining operations has not been occurring over the last few years but the rate of fall which is so obviously due to this revaluation allied with the devaluation of the American dollar is incalculable. I think the estimate that has been given is very rough. There are people like Hancock. Has he been knighted yet? Honourable members opposite would have knighted him had they had the opportunity and had not adopted a policy of not giving honours because no-one pushed their barrow harder than he did in Western Australia prior to the election. He has had a change of heart and has changed his opinion quite decisively, and allied with him is the Premier of Western Australia. The Premier does not know which way to turn because he has suddenly seen the complete collapse of the future of his great State. The point I am trying to make relates to the hopes and aspirations of the little people. People like Hancock are well able to look after themselves. They do not need someone from the outback to come here and plead their case. But I will plead the case of every person who is affected or will be affected and who will be forced to look for employment elsewhere. Will it be offering elsewhere? No way in the world - because the great billions that come from these industries will be stripped by almost 7 per cent and this country cannot sustain that sort of drop! I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry,  (Senator Wriedt),  is not a bad sort of fellow. I suppose that a man who has been selling insurance or who has worked on a ship would have a pretty profound knowledge of primary industry. I suppose that his appointment as Minister for Primary Industry is in keeping with the Prime Minister's policy of putting people into places where they cannot be terribly effective and so the Prime Minister can remain a god-like figure. It is pretty obvious.  Mr Menzies!  Abraham Lincoln! This is so laughable. There is so much that could be said on this subject and I do not have time at the moment to say it all. 
For a moment now I would like to speak about local government and to point out how the whole of this revaluation is tied up with the future of local government where it is most effective, and that is in country areas. The real value of the operations of local government is in helping towards decentralisation. A very significant conference involving about 1,000 people - people dedicated to local government, steeped in local government, as my whole life has been - was recently held here in Canberra. Every leader - the Prime Minister of the day, the Deputy Prime Minister, my own leader, the present Prime Minister and myself - all said that we would look for a better deal for local government. The day has come when local government must be provided with more finance. Its responsibilities are increasing. It must have direct access to funds. The second great claim was that it must be represented at the constitutional convention - and not only must it be represented but it must have a voice. 
As one who has spent a lifetime in local government, I would say that under this Government there has been no change in its position. There have been many changes in other directions. We did get changes - and God forbid that those changes in many respects should have happened to this wonderful nation - that have pushed us into the communist bloc, not left wing, not radical but into the communist bloc. There is no question about that. Our allies now, those countries being wooed, are the communist countries of this great globe of ours. But there has been no change in the status of local government, because the Prime Minister stated in answer to a question today that the additional funds to be provided for local government would be made available through the State authorities. 1 admit that constitutionally this is necessary, but it was my own Leader, the present Leader of the Country Party, the past Deputy Prime Minister, Doug Anthony, who put forward the first constructive suggestion. Our thunder has been stolen, but we have a little more to give and we will blast the government. His suggestion was that a special function of the Commonwealth Grants Commission should be established for funding local government. 
I do not want in any way to disparage the various Ministers for Local Government in the various State Governments. I believe that those who hold the highest position in the land in local government are a pretty good crowd of fellows. They co-operate and they all help. But it is inevitable that any State Government will make finance available to local authorities on its own terms, and this is the great flaw in the whole argument. There has to be some rethinking. There has to be a constitutional change, or at least preliminary discussions on a constitutional change, which will make the fourth level of government, local government, effective and have the use of funds which are specifically granted to local authorities so that they do not have to go cap in hand to the State Government except for the specific and formal requirements of moneys. By that I mean finance for roads and so on. 
Local authorities differ right throughout the nation. What might be one local authority's requirements for funds in relation to a particular project could be quite different from requirements elsewhere. Hence we cannot establish any uniformity. Local authorities should be entitled to make their own approach to the Grants Commission or some other instrumentality, and in that way power will be effectively given to local government. By the way, local authorities are as suspicious as most Australians are at the moment of the Commonwealth Government's centralising of control and power, completely in accord with socialist, communist domination. There has been a gradual whittling away of local control and power, and it is being done in a very effective manner. 
I am amazed that the media does not wake up to this and blast it high, wide and handsome that here is centralised control. When the Prime Minister who preceded Billy McMahon, John Gorton, gave some sort of indication in any way that he might just to a minor extent create new central authorities there was a great burst of condemnation. Is it not obvious that the Whitlam Government is bringing the power not to the ministers generally, because they have been appointed on the basis that they will be mainly ineffective, and all power will come back to 2 or 3 men and eventually to one? Is it not obvious to the whole nation that here has been established a dictatorship, and that the sections of the media which go along with this apparently are trying to create a god-like figure? A second Menzies! Forgive me if I look a little nauseated. I cannot help it.  Sir Robert  Menzies suffered a stroke recently. Good heavens, if this sort of news gets to him he will be back in hospital. And as for Abraham Lincoln - oh, brother! 
Most honourable members must have read the article written by an American journalist, or it may have been written in Australia, 6 weeks ago in which it was stated that the American people do not yet regard us as being so pro-communist as Cuba or Chile but - it is only a matter of time.  Mr Whitlam  is talking about having talks with  President  Nixon.  President  Nixon's advisers said: 'Let it go for a while, boy. Let him simmer down.' Abraham Lincoln! God help us. I had many more things to say but when I thought of Abraham Lincoln it really brought me to a standstill. I thank the House for its indulgence. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I first of all pay a tribute to your patience and impartiality. I know that you have been tried, particularly by members of the Opposition because they are drooling, they are happy and they are jubilant. They are working out what they are going to do with their big fat pay cheques. 
That is right, the Government. I cannot get used to it, and I am not trying because it is only a temporary situation. What I would like to make perfectly clear is that, as has been mentioned here by my  2  colleagues, in the Country Party room today there was a display of complete loyalty not only to our Leader  (Mr Anthony)  but to the great number of people in the vast wealth producing areas we represent. We consider the Government's attitude a slight on our Party and on its great and tremendous responsibilities. We were united to a man that we could not possibly accept the Government's proposition. 
We have before us tonight the proposition which was originally placed before our Leader by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  If one were inclined to be a little suspicious  one might  perhaps think that the Prime Minister suffered a change of heart because some of the polls that have been published show that our Leader is rapidly gaining ground. They show that he has the confidence of the whole nation. I suppose that because of this any Prime Minister would be getting a little concerned. The other telling argument is that in  1942  there was a clear and precise precedent, as was mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  when the then Leader of the Opposition was paid  1,200. 
Dollars? If that amount is in dollars, then it was not enough. At that time his deputy was paid nothing. I am not suggesting for a moment that we should revert to this position. But the precedent is that the then Leader of the Country Party was paid $800. Surely to goodness we have here a clear cut indication of status. 
There are one or two matters that I think have not been mentioned in the House tonight which relate to facilities provided to honourable members. 1 refer to secretarial assistance, which all of us need so desperately,  and  to office accommodation. All of this is tied up with the general conditions applying to honourable members. 
Older. 
In addition there is  a  rather confused state of affairs in regard to  the  operations of the various Commonwealth departments. It is very obvious that there is confusion as to who are the actual departmental heads and more precisely who are  the  advisers to the Ministers. I  am  sure that this situation has created great difficulty for the less senior departmental officers who are confused about where they are going and who are the actual advisers to the various Ministers. All of this is tied up with salaries. 
I would like to make just one final point. Members of the Country Party are constantly insulted by comments and remarks about the areas we represent, lt would be very interesting to measure the production per head of population in areas represented by the Country Party as against the production per  head  in areas represented by supporters of the Government and to see just what value they are to this country. Again, if I were suspicious of the Government's motives in introducing this proposition I would wonder why we were given a set of figures this morning which indicated that there was to be  a  variation between the allowance paid to members in country areas and that paid to members in city areas. God bless them- -they have their 3 J square mile electorates. They have a  tremendous  task in covering them. My electorate is 230,000 square miles and 1 feel confident that the size will be greater after the proposed redistribution of boundaries takes place. But I will not go into details on that. What I want to say is that it is rather strange that this morning it was well known around the corridors that figures were out which showed a variation between the electorate allowances for people in rural areas and those in city areas. Again, if I were suspicious, 1 might think that a little bit of spite had come into this because members of the Country Party were claiming the status that our party demands. Never mind about Doug Anthony - the Leader of our party might be someone else. The Leader might be a shearer next time because the people in the Country Party have something in common with the workers. We have din under our nails. 
Government supporters - Oh! 
Government supporters find that amusing because they do not know what I am talking about. I conclude on this note: We are completely united in the matter of principle that our party will not be denigrated or downgraded. We are determined on that issue. 
I think that most of the substance of this Bill has been discussed not at any great length but to the point by the various speakers who have taken part in this debate. I propose to be brief in my remarks. In doing so I might mention that there is so much tedious repetition in this House that, knowing how acutely aware you are,  Mr Speaker,  of what is happening from time to time here, you will particularly watch members of the Government who get up and take their full time and merely repeat what has been said time and time again. Of course, we understand that there is provision in the Standing Orders which allows the Chair to deal with members who indulge in tedious repetition. 
I think that the Bill is a good Bill. I commend the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  for enlarging something that was pioneered by the honourable member tor Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  when he was Minister for Social Services. I am sure that the former Minister would forgive me if I make mention of  Mr Pettitt,  the previous honourable member for Hume, who together with his committee and under the guidance of the then Minister came forward with some splendid proposals and co-operated with the Minister in pioneering this measure. The Labor Party, having taken a lead from the previous Government, has projected the measure into an area which I think it is necessary to cover. I commend the Minister for this action. 
The Bill can be summed up very precisely by saying that in normal circumstances the legislation will apply to beneficiaries wherever they may choose to live providing that they have lived in Australia for 10 years. However, an invalid pensioner will receive the pension after 5 years residence in Australia and pension portability will apply to any country to which that pensioner may return. Of course, the final provision is that no residential qualifications are necessary in the case of widows who have been permanently resident in Australia. I represent an area which has numerous migrants. They come from just about every country from which people have migrated to Australia. I would particularly express my appreciation to the Minister for the provision in lbs legislation that a period of only 5 years residence is necessary in the case of anyone who may return to their country because of invalidity. Most mining communities continually have the possibility of accidents occurring. Over a period of about 4 years now I have known of a case of a migrant who speaks practically no 
English who suffered almost irreparable physical damage from an accident. I rather feel he will be taking advantage of the new provision regarding 5 years residence. This sort of situation occurs particularly in mining communities which have a great number of migrants and this provision of the Bill will be particularly appreciated by them. 
I do not want to talk about the amendment that is not yet before the House. But surely, if reason prevails, there should not be any objection from members on the other side of the House if the amendment is approved. In fact, one would anticipate that if there are any reasonable men over there - and this is very doubtful - they would most certainly in all fairness support the amendment. After all, this is what our job is all about - to strike a balance. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said that 1 53 persons abroad were receiving benefits under the Act. Therefore there has not as yet been a great demand on the Treasury. So it may or may not be necessary to protect the interests of the taxpayer. But while there is a possibility of someone exploiting this clause of the Bill it is most reasonable to look at the amendment and give it reasonable treatment. 
In a debate which concerns the transferability of pensions to other countries we might refer perhaps to some of the unique and special difficulties of migrants who live in unusual places, such as the numerous migrants who live in the city of Mt Isa which is my headquarters in Queensland. It may be suggested that I am getting off the track a little but my remarks are most certainly tied up with the Bill before the House. People are perhaps not aware of the changes in the law and the concessions that may be granted from time to time under various governments. It is to the credit of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  that he has introduced a system whereby a migrant in Melbourne can telephone and receive immediately the services of a linguist who can interpret and explain legislation such as this. I think that such advantages which are enjoyed in the metropolitan areas should most certainly be made available to people in the far flung areas of this great Commonwealth. 
People often ask: Why the blazes do migrants not get away from the major cities? Those people should look beyond the horizons of the metropolitan areas and they will find that great numbers of migrants - thousands of them - live in places far from the major cities and, more particularly, in mining centres. I ask the Minister for Social Security to give heed to my suggestion - and to pass it on to his colleague, the Minister for Immigration - that special facilities should be created in these areas to inform the migrants about such matters as portability of pensions. The honourable member for Perth said that 153 people living overseas were receiving Australian pensions. That may not be a realistic figure. If an aged migrant has been in this country for 10 years that means he probably came out here late in life. If. he has spent 10 years here he would be well and truly settled in. I do not think this situation would create any great difficulty. I do not think that great numbers of people would be wanting to return to their homelands. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  mentioned that elderly migrants always have a yen to return to their particular fatherlands to die, but I do not think many of them do. 
I hope that the Bill and the proposed amendment will be accepted and passed. I feel sure that, if any sort of reason prevails, they will be passed. The message must be got across to people living outside the metropolitan areas. Any honourable member representing a country area, from whichever side of the House he comes, will say that one of the great difficulties for a Federal member in these areas is that he has to deal with all sorts of questions; he has to be the great informant on all departments and their activities. In other areas people can telephone the department and receive the information without delay, but we in the country areas have to be able to supply information in regard to all these matters. If this Bill is passed - I am quite sure it will be, with the amendment, I hope - the next step will be to convey the information regarding the new provisions to migrants throughout the length and breadth of the country. I commend the Bill and strongly urge people of reason - there must be a few left on the other side of the House - to give full consideration to the proposed amendment. Rumour has it that an amendment full of common sense may shortly come before us. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lamb)  adjourned. 
Cloncurry is my home town, Cloncurry is where the Royal Flying Doctor Service was founded, and it is not commonly known that  Sir Arthur  Fadden played a most profound part in the stimulation of interest in the Royal Flying Doctor Service. He and Lady Fadden personally supported it and some mention should be made of that fact. I remember that soon after my election to Parliament Artie Fadden gave me one of those lectures one receives occasionally on what to do when you get to Canberra. He said: 'Now look, boy, before you ever get on your feet do a bit of thinking'. Honourable members opposite are interjecting but I will make my point. He immediately prodded me in the chest and said: 'Talking about thinking, Bob, did you hear the one about Hughenden?' I said: 'Well, Artie, I have heard many jokes about Hughenden', which is in the electorate of Kennedy. He said: 'It is about a little old fellow. Do you remember in the old days there used to be little old pubs with seats in the front where you would find little old blokes with stained whiskers, with pipes in their mouths, looking into the distance, appearing to be thinking profoundly?' He said to me: 'Do not let people know you are thinking. Anyhow, one day a bloke staggered out of one of these pubs, hauled off and flattened one of these poor old blokes, saying to him as he lay in the dust: "Huh, one of them thinkin' bastards".' So I would like to add my tribute to  Sir Arthur  Fadden for his great contribution to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. 
Because my question affects the lives of many, many Australians, I direct it to the Prime Minister. I would ask the honourable gentleman to answer it explicitly and in detail, and thereby of course create a precedent. Will the Prime Minister assure the House and the people of Australia that the Minister for Overseas Trade in his trade talks with officials of the People's Republic of China will not commit Australian exports in a season of short supply exclusively to the Chinese and to the exclusion of all other traditional markets? Does the Prime Minister fully appreciate that in times of normal production and above normal production Australian exporters need access to all world markets? Does the Prime Minister recognise that once a type of export is removed as part of a blend of goods on any export market it can and does take many years to re-establish that commodity in that market? 
In view of the Prime Minister's second-last answer I direct the following question to him: If he is ready to make available to the Leader of the Opposition information on security matters will he make known the contents of this famous telex? 
Those honourable members in the House who wanted to have a little morning doze would have been indebted to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  for his monotonous, archaic monologue which seemed to be devoted more primarily to taking apart the former honourable member for Casey who was Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. This seems to be a compulsion on the part of honourable members on the other side of the House. It is a compulsion not so much to attack the previous Government but to be archaic. I suggest to the honourable member for Casey that he would do well to do one of 2 things: Either he should enrol in the film and television school himself to bring more fire into his addresses to the House or, better still, perhaps spend an hour or 2 with the Leader of the House, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I am sure that either course would help him to keep the House awake during his addresses. 
I point out that I have had something to do with this industry. I have been a theatre proprietor for many years. In this capacity., as well as being a member of the House, I commend the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in introducing this Bill. In contrast to the destructive address that we have just head, let us look at the opening address of the Prime Minister when he introduced the Bill. He said that it marks the culmination of 3 years of extensive planning. This would hardly do discredit- 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  tries to interject. I have told him before that he is a didgeridoo. He makes a lot of noise but he is full of emptiness. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Bowman will be quiet. I suggest to the honourable member for Kennedy that if he wishes to continue his remarks he address himself to the Chair and not provoke interjections. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, because of my respect for you, I address the Chair with great pleasure. All who are interested in the film industry and in television are delighted that this step has been taken by the Prime Minister. Of course, I join with the honourable member for Casey in commending one of our outstanding members on this side of the House, namely, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  For the benefit of listeners who are not members of the House, I mention that he is John Gorton. They might not remember that he is the right honourable member for Higgins, but certainly they will remember John Gorton. It was his foresight and concern for the industry and the standard of production that caused him to battle this Bill through. Now we see it taking shape. Let us look at the industry. 
The honourable member is becoming very vociferous now. He was as dull as a bandicoot - perhaps I could say - this morning. I do not know how dull bandicoots are but he was very dull this morning. Admittedly, we have come a long way with Australian film production over the last 5 to 10 years. I well remember and pay credit to the wife of one of our most distinguished members, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  We knew her before as Daphne Campbell. If the sort of skill which has been referred to and which will now come into use under the provisions of this Bill had been available when the film production 'The Overlanders' was made, Daphne Campbell would have become a great star. But there was no opportunity for the development of our own artists at that time. 
I would like to deal briefly with 2 aspects of the involvement of this Bill. The first is the absolute necessity for the Australian film industry to become recognised internationally. With all due respect to the Foundation Director who has been appointed - I have no doubt that Professor Jerzy Toeplitz is a man of outstanding ability and probably of international reputation - I would ask this: Would anyone interested in seeing a good film attend its showing if he was told that it was a production under the organisation of Professor Toeplitz? 
People would say: 'Who is Professor Toeplitz?' Maybe he will be known in future years. The comment has been made by  Dr Coombs  that we should contemplate buying theatres so that we can show Australian productions. With all due respect to  Dr Coombs  I say that, in my opinion, that is a great admission of defeat. I do not care how many theatres are bought or how much coercion is brought to bear on the Australian people to look at an Australian film, if that film is not produced with a quality that the people demand these days, they will probably look at television or at something else, go swimming or engage in some of the other activities which are so well known in this country. 
So, in my humble opinion, we have to aim at producing an initial film of great quality. A large proportion of the moneys that have been made available should be directed to this project. I suggest respectfully that we consider employing a producer such as David Lean, a man who is internationally known for such recent productions as 'Ryan's Daughter' and earlier productions such as 'Bridge on the River Kwai', 'Lawrence of Arabia' and 'Doctor Zhivago'. The double advantage of having a man of that prestige and of that tremendous talent would be that he would work with those people who are involved in the operations of the School, and they would be off to a tremendous start. The industry would be off to a tremendous start. Internationally, it has not done well. Let us face facts. Let us not be over-patriotic and say 'We produced a great Australian film- "Ned Kelly".' Would not this film be the most classical piece of misdirection and miscasting that was ever perpetrated in the whole of the film industry of this or any other country? It ran for one week in New York. If Lionel Long or Ron Randell had been the star, it would have been a different story. But Dean Jagger, the pop singer, was the star. 
I cannot even remember his name. What a great Ned Kelly. This piece of casting was utterly hopeless. Everyone in the film industry said that. I have been perhaps a little destructive to date. We have seen what we could call the age of Hector Crawford. He is a man of great talent and a man who can orientate productions to what the people want. I pause to say that this Government has one peculiarity. It reminds me of a story which 1 heard about an agitator in 
Townsville who said: 'When we take over, my friends, you will have the lovely homes at Surfers Paradise. The workers will have the lovely homes at Surfers Paradise, not all these wealthy people'. One old fellow said: 'I suffer from asthma. I do not want to live by the sea. I do not like the sea.' The agitator said: My friend, when we take over, you will like what you are told to like'. This is the sort of government that we are moving into - briefly, I expect. I rather think that the honourable member for Casey, who has left the chamber and who was disturbed today, was doubly disturbed by the poll result at the weekend. I am sure that it brought him no comfort to know that we now have 48 per cent of the vote in Sydney and Melbourne, not out in the country. I would like to know the result of a poll out there at the moment. But in Sydney and Melbourne 48 per cent are for us and 46 per cent are for the Australian Labor Party. It is little wonder that the honourable member is unnerved. 
It is utterly essential that we set a very high standard of production. Last Sunday night we saw the first release of this new series 'Seven Little Australians'. I thought that the casting, the direction and the production were quite superb. As a matter of fact, I wired the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I did not get a reply, and this rather disturbs me. I particularly wanted to know who the producer and director were so that I could pay tribute to them and to all who were involved in this new series. It was quite superb. The young artist who played the part of Judy is a very delightful person and obviously is a young star with great talent. I thought that she was quite outstanding, as was Leonard Teale. I think this will be a great series. So, we have the talent. I appeal to the Prime Minister to ensure that the initial production which will launch this school is a great Australian production. What tremendous scope we have for producing great films in this nation. But I think it is time we realised that we are not much good at these indoor, yackety-yack, stagy kind of films. I think it is time we gave up the double bed for the double barrel. We are not good at that sort of thing. I mean that we are not good at it in movies; I am not suggesting that we lack prowess in any other direction. I suppose ill-informed people will now regard me as anti-permissive. That is not a bad reputation to have you know; you can hide all sorts of indiscretions. 
However, I feel that we can make great outdoor movies. We would have no trouble in casting such films because the average Australian is rugged, he is humorous, he has initiative and he has appearance. Do not look at me; I am talking about the average Australian. So we have this great line-up of attributes that will produce really great stars for outdoor movies. And what themes we could develop - exploration, the early mining days and many wonderful stories revolving around our Aboriginal people. I shall not repeat what one of my colleagues has just said by way of interjection about one of our Ministers except to say that it is said that the mining industry is ailing because it is suffering from .rhoea'. However that does not relate to this Bill. We will deal with that later on. 
I reiterate 2 points: Firstly, we should launch this School in a most dramatic way by bringing a man such as David Lean to Australia to work with our people and to show them the type of producer who earned an international reputation and won so many academy awards that I have lost count of them. Again I mention a couple of his productions, 'Lawrence of Arabia' and 'Ryan's Daughter'. Secondly, even though we have a man of the obvious great capabilities of Professor Jerzy Toeplitz, I feel that we have to involve all sections. When we are talking of Professor Toeplitz, it is quite obvious to everyone, of course, particularly to me, a man who comes from a cosmopolitan city such as Mt Isa, that we have such a tremendous reservoir of talent from which to draw among people who have come to Australia from Europe and other parts of the world. We have a great new reservoir open to us now from which we can draw to produce film and television series such as 'Seven Little Australians'. 
Finally, I pay tribute to the Prime Minister for continuing a theme that was set by the former Prime Minister, John Gorton, and for the fact that the film and television school is now to be established. But I ask that we do not do the sort of thing that was done with the film, 'Ned Kelly', that is bring someone from overseas, a pop singer with an English accent, to take the part of a fellow such as Ned Kelly. What happened with the film 'Ned Kelly' was pathetic; it was deplorable. Let us hope it will be avoided in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I do not propose to comment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  because I think he is a dam good fellow. I just sympathise with him for having to mix in the company in which he mixes. It is difficult to know where to begin when surveying the devastation the Government has inflicted on our country, its institutions and its people. Shall I speak of defence and refer to the sickening humiliation suffered by each of our armed Services all because a group of fanatics compelled by a dedication to foreign ideologies wants to throw into jeopardy the safety and security of our people? Shall I examine the foreign policy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which has aroused the gravest suspicions in most of the reputable countries throughout the world? Shall I refer to the disgusting raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which struck a fatal blow at our status and our integrity - an integrity built on an impeccable system  of  intelligence and security? Shall I probe the financial policies of this new dictatorship and expose a Budget which has stimulated a searing heat in our economy which, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  himself has admitted, will result in an inflation pressure which the Government cannot control? 
Perhaps the most vicious, vindictive and savage attack ever made on any section of the Australian people has been made by this Budget and those people living in nonmetropolitan areas and particularly those in country areas. Yet . I wonder whether that statement is entirely correct, because the little people in the cities have been hit where it hurts most. They will have to pay more for their transport and their smokes. The decline in value of their dollar will make everything more expensive. They are aware of this. People in city areas are not fools. They are not being duped. Their votes are not being bought. The Australian National Opinion Poll - I would not say that it is oriented to give a false impression, particularly where the Opposition is concerned - revealed last weekend that 48 per cent of people in Sydney and Melbourne would prefer the people on this side of the House to govern them, whereas 46 per cent supported the PLF - the ,pseudo Labor Party. 
Let me refer to the policies of the Government revealed by this destructive and irresponsible Budget which attempts to reduce country people to third class citizens. It is destructive to rural industries, four of which produce about $3 billion worth of overseas credits for this nation. I refer to the beef cattle, sheep and sugar industries. The Budget is irresponsible because one great economic truth has been ignored by the Prime Minister and his henchmen - that is the economy in total, the prosperity of all Australians, and the interdependability of rural and urban Australians. The country men produce and support the major earning power of this country and millions of city dwellers provide the domestic consumption. Here is what the Government has done to destroy the quality of life of country people, and this is anything but a complete list: It has abolished support for petroleum product costs in country areas; it has increased postal rates on newspapers and periodicals; it has increased telephone rentals in country areas and telecommunication charges to the media. One would almost suspect that the Government was trying to stifle the voice of our mini-media in country areas, but that would be unjust. 
The Government has imposed charges on meat exports and seeks to recover the full cost of eradicating bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. It has abolished the accelerated depreciation allowance on plant used in primary production. It has phased out the butter, cheese and processed milk products bounties. It has abolished the distribution of free milk to all schools and has phased out all support for rural air services. One of the Budget provisions which will most certainly hit all wage earners - it, will hit country toilers most viciously - is the rise in fuel costs. The increased duty on motor spirit together with the widening of the petrol price equalisation margin will increase rural transport costs by up to 25 per cent. Some people say that they will be increased by 27 per cent. Is it not obvious that this increase will flow over to just about every commodity and service in country areas, and provincial cities too? The wealthy will not be greatly worried. They will not be concerned about an extra 6c for a gallon of petrol or the inevitable rise in food, clothing and most other day by day expenses. These honey mouthed deceivers opposite have hit the workers, the pensioners, the small contractors and business men, the small farmers and graziers. 
I join the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in accusing members of the Australian Labor Party who represent rural areas of abandoning their electors. They have exposed themselves as utter hypocrites. Their election promises were monumental deceits. The jeers and cat calls hurled at the 
Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  at the weekend were only a beginning. The country people are poised for vengeance against their betrayers. 
The abolition of free milk to all schools is another example of the sickening hypocrisy of these people. In country areas a great percentage of children most needing this milk are Aboriginal children - honourable members opposite do not want to hear this - and yet the Treasurer told this House last Tuesday week that there was now no need for this nutritional addition to the diet. At the same time honourable members opposite are going around the country screaming that Aboriginal children are suffering from malnutrition. I suppose milk does not have anything to do with this. The Goverment has taken the milk from the kids. There is a paranoia gripping the people in the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. They have a psychotic hatred of people who live in country areas. This venom is hurting the people they pretend, with supreme hypocrisy, to represent and care for. 
Out of their frenzied calculations to strike blow after blow at country people came another body punch - the phasing out of air service support. People in isolated areas depend greatly on air services provided by small companies which have pioneered this now indispensible transport link and who have very little to show for it, as my friend the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  well knows. It will be the station hands, the Aboriginals- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the gentleman in the gallery who is clapping desist, otherwise I will have to have him removed. 
The Government is striking at the station hands, the Aboriginals and the sick pensioners. These are the people who will suffer because they will not be able to afford to travel on aeroplanes any more. Maybe these services will not exist any more. It is the Government's objective, of course, to drive them out of business. If ever there has been a section of the Australian community that has endured discouragement after discouragement it has been the dairy farmers. No one works longer hours and .receives less remuneration than the dairy farmers. Let me tell those draculas, those blood suckers, that when we were in power there was no unusual generosity towards the dairy farmers. There were fewer subsidies paid to support primary industries in Australia than are paid in any other similar country in the Western world. What I say about the dairy industry could apply to other primary industries now. One can bet any odds that the high tone of prosperity in the major rural industries will not persist indefinitely. The inevitability of market pressures and drought will ensure that. What a disaster - what an indeterminable tragedy - will hit those industries if this Government remans in power. More than half the export income of this nation is derived from these very same industries. Let us consider for a moment the proposed recovery of full costs involved in the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The eradication program is important in the light of the tightening of overseas inspection requirements. That is obvious even to the Government. The task force created by the Government said that it was questionable whether the cost of the program should be met by the taxpayer rather than by the industry. It said that there were 3 possibilities: To maintain payments at the present level; to restore matching dollar for dollar basis financing; to impose a levy on beef exports to meet the financial requirements of the program. The Government has decided on the latter course and legislation will be required. The cost to the industry will be about $6m a year, but do not forget that this comes on top of the estimated $13m a year to be recouped from the industry for export inspection services. 
I return now to a subject I referred to when I opened my address, namely, the critical defence of this nation. I have spoken about our economy and our quality of life, but all of this is of little consequence if we do not have the capacity at least to provide a realistic base on which our defence can be quickly mobilised and the security and protection of our people assured. I accuse and indict the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who, with almost a drooling satisfaction, has emasculated our defence capacity. He has ripped out the heart of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Soon there will not be a career serviceman left in any of these defence forces. This weak and inconspicuous Minister in a pathetic attempt to boost recruiting has tried to convert army camps into holiday camps. He has shown disdain and contempt for the status and effectiveness of the Army. He has aborted the divisional concept by reducing our Army to 6 battalions. 
There would not be a banana republic which would not regard this as a boy scout movement. 
Let me list briefly some of the money saving cuts for they are pretty good cuts. One Mirage squadron will be disbanded. Troop transport, supply and training ship 'Anzac' is to be scrapped. Plans for fast combat support ships to cost $69m are to be cancelled. The civilian defence staff is to be cut by 4,600. The forces personnel is to be cut by 2,300. What is left? The Mirage replacement is to be deferred indefinitely. We all know what sign the Mirage squadron at Amberley put up outside their base - 'We have closed business because of Labor pains'. Stores, spare parts and ammunition are to be reduced, and there is to be a scaling down in local ammunition factories. The decision on the new light destroyer is to be deferred until next year or the following year or forever - who knows. The number of new CT4 trainer aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force is to be cut. Some 37 were ordered originally and that was little enough. Now here is a beauty: The completion of the Cockburn Sound naval base is to be deferred from 1975 to 1978. Whom does the Government think it is kidding? Let the Western Australians wake up to something else. They will not get the battalion they were screaming for last year and which in my opinion they should have got. Not only will they not get that battalion, there are now only 6 battalions left. I do not know what the number will be next year. 
Now I come to one of the most worrying aspects of recent legislation, namely, the moves made by this Government to throw into a state of uncertainty the great mining industry. I do not propose to go into that in detail tonight but I do promise the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that he will be hearing from me in great detail. I have lived in a mining environment all my life. 
I draw the attention of the House to the comment made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  He said: 'That is obvious'. That is a distasteful remark and a reflection on people who live in mining centres. He obviously treats them with the same contempt with which he treats most people in the country. I have seen the city of Mount Isa, for instance, grow from a town of galvanised iron houses to a proud modern city. I know of ethnic groups which have left their overseas homes, travelled direct to Mount Isa and contributed to a wonderful, almost unbelievable fusion of our rugged frontier type Australian character and the rich cultures of Europe and elsewhere. I have seen a transient population not only in Mount Isa but also in other mining communities throughout Australia, places like Blackwater and Moura, become permanent residents. In all these mining towns we have a wonderful spirit of teamwork and pride. Now a shadow of uncertainty has been cast and a gloom has come over this industry. 
I challenge the Minister for Minerals and Energy to declare a firm policy in regard to the mining industry. Let him come clean and say whether the desires of his colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  which were expressed in this House when he made an attempt to have Mount Isa Mines Ltd nationalised as a beginning, no doubt, to nationalising the entire industry, are to be realised. I challenge him to come clean and state his intentions. Does he intend to fully nationalise this industry? ls it his intention to reduce the mining industry which is so critical to the economy of this nation to the same shambles to which a very similar government in Chile reduced its mining industry. This so-called Labor Government is hell bent on reducing us to a regimented banana republic. It is intent on centralising power in Canberra. The Prime Minister, with an unbelievable egoism, makes Hitler appear like a benevolent aunt. Every man on this side of the House is dedicated to 2 things - to the preservation of the great Australian freedoms and the high quality of life which was the envy of the world, and to the breaking of the grip which this arrogant, irresponsible unAustralian group of jackboot tyrants have on this magnificent country. God give us strength to restore to the people the way of life they deserve, and to bring back decency and respect to this nation, 
 Because we have seen on the Government side of the House, particularly in the case of Ministers, an appalling lack of ability, capacity or experience, I think it might be well for just a moment to compare the opposing sides in this debate. I make no reflection on the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  He is a great fellow. I know him personally. I cannot say the same for the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  because he is not the type of man who bounces gaily down the corridor, gives you a hit on the back and says: 'How are you chum?' I do not know him personally. 
I propose to deal now with some of the points which will develop the title of this matter. I refer to the high cost to the nation of the actions and policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. May I first of all take just a brief glance at some of the comments he made in reply to my colleague the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  I was going to talk about the 2 opposing teams in this debate. I think it is frankly admitted internationally that the honourable member for Farrer did an impeccable job as Minister for National Development, particularly during the phase of mineral development, because one particular attribute of his is complete integrity. He has the attribute of a love of the historic and fundamental qualities of this nation of free enterprise. What is more, he has attracted to this nation some of the greatest mining companies in the world and has produced for this nation a huge capacity to employ thousands and thousands of people, many of whom are in my electorate. 
Let me deal with this business of the sell out. The Minister talked about the volume and production of minerals. Is this Government going to take credit for the fact that mineral prices are at a high level at the present time? Is it going to take credit for the fact that the stability and integrity of the previous Government attracted to this country these huge enterprises which are now able to produce large quantities of minerals, a productivity of which this nation was so proud? I must not forget to mention my place in this. I have had a lifetime of close contact with mining - not so much with management but with the small gouger and producer, the miner himself. I have lived in an environment of mining. I have seen the Mount Isa mines district, with its small group of shanty houses with hessian partitions, develop into a proud provincial city. It is perhaps the most important complex of its kind in the world. I see an excellent association between the Trades and Labour Council and the mines management. Do honourable members think that the Trades and Labour Council would give one inch on any industrial issue? It would not give one iota. The Council would fight an issue to the last stand. At Mount Isa the company management and employees work on an excellent basis. But then we have the likes of this Government coming in and trying to create a cleavage and suspicion on all sides. 
I shall deal with just one other comment which the Minister made. He said that they are waiting for him with open arms over in Japan, that everything is stopped and the whole radio network is held up because  Mr Connor  is coming to Japan. Let me tell honourable members one thing. I was  chairman  of directors of a non-profit organisation known as the Cloncurry Copper Co-operative. Its purpose was to attract development into the Mount Isa and Cloncurry area. I had the opportunity of discussing, long before I became a member of the Parliament, various matters with the  chairman  of directors of one of Japan's major mining companies. I asked him: 'Why is it that you have chosen Australia as the centre of your particular interests with regard to mining?' He said: 'It is based on 3 things. No. 1 is your geographic proximity to Japan. No. 2 is that you have limitless resources of low grade ore. No. 3 is that you do not have a socialist government'. Honourable members opposite should not have the impression that the Japanese are in any way deceived by what is the ultimate objective of the Australian Government, namely, to infiltrate into the mining industry and inject the serum which eventually will produce the cancer of mini-nationalisation. What the Government would do is break the industry down as happened with the industry in Chile where a superb and magnificent copper operation was proceeding but which collapsed to such an extent that 750,000 workers finally demanded the end of the Allende regime. I do not condone the recent revolution one bit, but long before the revolution 750,000 workers in Chile demanded the end of the Allende regime. Yet the Government seeks to control the Australian mining industry. 
I should like to point to one or two of the more specific reactions to this particular operation. I call it 'operation' because it is a move to complete destruction. One must remember at all times that in Australia we are seeing an attempt to nationalise, socialise and regiment every facet of our lives. It is a tragic situation when this can be seen on a national scale. In every mining centre in Australia there is a complete sense of insecurity. I would suggest that the Minister for Minerals and Energy not go to one particular area because the message has gone out there and they have a long rope and a deep shaft waiting for him. He should avoid that area. 
I will not tell the Minister because I hope that he does go there. If the Minister has any doubts about the reaction to his own particular attitudes and statements I would suggest to him, that he get out and go to mining areas not mix with the management, as he usually does, but with the workers, in the canteens, as I do. I suggest that he not tell them who he is but simply seek their reactions. The Minister knows what is happening. Most workers are planning to get out of the industry, just as men are planning to leave the Army, Navy and Air Force. The Government has undermined confidence and everybody is wanting to get out of their own particular calling. This is happening in the mining industry. I might say to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is trying to interject, that I have served on the executive of 3 unions. I have been on strike more times than he has been on strike, so let us compare our industrial records. 
Risk and uncertainty are the 2 characteristics of mining exploration costs and risk market fluctuations. Additional uncertainty gradually discourages exploration upon which the whole industry depends. Since December 1972 numerous changes have taken place. These changes have hampered this great industry. There have been 2 revaluations against the United States dollar which have reduced returns to mineral exporters more than to any other industry - and this is saying something. 
Open antipathy of the Minister to the industry - 'hillbillies and mugs' is his expression - has produced a barrier between him and normal avenues of consultation with the industry. Joint ventures between overseas companies and Australian tenement holders have all been frozen. None has been approved, although there is no legislation on the subject. The Government has frozen new tenement renewals in the top end of the Northern Territory, despite commitments by previous Governments and signed sales contracts. Is this integrity? Does this give us an international reputation? It certainly does, that we completely lack integrity. 
There has been a proliferation of ministries affecting mining. Let us look at them. Even the departments do not know the dividing lines. There are the Departments for Minerals and Energy, Northern Development, the Northern Territory, Aboriginal Affairs and Environment and Conservation. All these departments have a finger in the Northern Territory uranium province. I cannot get a clear cut definition of what shape the Government's policy is taking. I do not think that it knows because it orientates everything according to the political climate. I only wish to God that the Government would go to the people; it would know in a flash the political climate. But the people of Australia are waking up to the fact that this crowd of people in Government have such an intense admiration for foreign ideologies that they are acting, as I said before, like a lot of jackbooted, swastika carrying dictators. I make the final point that the Government stated its intention of going into the exploration and mining business. This has further undermined confidence. In no country which is buoyant and prosperous and where a high standard of living exists has such a venture done other than bring disastrous results. We will move heaven and earth to prevent this happening to our great country and our great mining industry. 
I should like to refer very briefly to one or two comments made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Surprisingly I do so to commend him for them. In the latter part of his speech he referred, prompted by my neighbour, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  to the wives of honourable members. I am in the position where I do not have a wife any more, but I think that these ladies who work with their men do a magnificent job. They remain at home within the environs of the electorate. They have to tolerate the backlash, or accept the bouquets which come very infrequently to a Federal member of Parliament. I think that they are a wonderfully courageous and magnificent group of women. I can say this now, because, as I said, I do not have a wife. 
The honourable member for Scullin referred to the time we spend at Canberra. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has more or less foreshadowed that we will spend more time even than the Mondays we now have here at Canberra. This creates quite a difficulty for honourable members handling great sprawling electorates. If I were to quote my predecessor - one of the finest members, I would say, that ever appeared in this House,  Mr Bill  Riordan - I would say that the electorate of Kennedy is one of the largest constituencies of its kind in the world, not so much in area but in distribution of towns, mining areas and grazing and pastoral areas. Just about everything is in that electorate. It has an area of 250,000 square miles. I think every honourable member in this House on both sides would agree with me that there is only one realistic way of representing people in this nation, and that is to mix among them, to go into the areas and to come into physical contact at least with the area from time to time. 
Of course this is becoming increasingly difficult with the additional hours that we have to spend here in Canberra. Although it is interesting to note that in most countries - I had reason to learn this at some close quarters when I was at the 'United Nations - the elected representatives of the people move to Washington, to Delhi, to London holus bolus and stay there during the period of the sittings. This would be quite impossible from our point of view for two reasons: One is economic. Most of us could not afford to have an additional home in Canberra. The other is that it would keep us away from our electorates for quite an unrealistic time. 
Perhaps I could refer again to the Leader of the House. He is a sort of  Dr Jekyll  and  Mr Hyde.  I think that we would all agree that he has been most compassionate, most considerate and most realistic in making additional facilities available to us. We now have the use of charter planes if we represent electorates of more than 100,000 square miles. My electorate covers 250,000 square miles. One of the things that always strikes me is how any Minister or Cabinet who would control these things could imagine that we like travelling in charter planes. To suggest that there is any great pleasure in sitting in a small Cessna for 4 or 5 hours with the obvious discomfort that may arise is quite ridiculous. However, at least we now have this privilege. 
Some other improvements have been made to the functioning of the House. The suspension of the sitting by no later than 11 p.m., which was referred to by the honourable member for Scullin, is one. I think all honourable members will agree with me when I say that that is a very logical and realistic approach to adopt. I commend the Leader of the House for introducing it. But the point is the Leader of the 'House suddenly contorts himself and changes into a  Mr Hyde.  When he is in that mood he acts in a most ruthless manner. It is almost impossible to believe that the congenial and lovable Fred Daly quite suddenly becomes a diabolical character who will gag a debate in a split second and deprive honourable members of the normal democratic rights they have to express their points of view. That happened today with respect to the debate on a Bill which is of absolutely monumental importance to the nation, that is, the Bill seeking to hold a referendum concerning the controlling of incomes as well as prices. 
Earlier tonight or late this afternoon the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  referred to the manner in which question time is conducted. I think all honourable members will agree with me when I say that question time is the most colourful time of any sitting day. It is the time when honourable members are not inhibited and when they can put questions to the Prime Minister and his Ministers. I think there would not be one member of this House who, if he were honest with himself and not jumping to a Party whip - I do not mean a Party Whip in the formal sense, I mean a whip that is cracked by a Party - would disagree with me when I say that we should devote at least one hour and perhaps  li  hours to question time, which is the period of a sitting day which is of most interest to the people of this nation. During question time members of Parliament can inquire from the Prime Minister and his Ministers in a most uninhibited manner about divers questions and things of interest to the people of the nation. I for one feel quite strongly that question time should 'be extended. 
Let me get on to the conditions under which members of Parliament live in this great white building. I wish to point out to the people sitting in the galleries that once members of Parliament walk into this building each day they are prisoners until the Parliament adjourns at night. It is like being back at boarding school. Members of Parliament are not permitted to leave the building from the time the bells are rung at the commencement of a sitting day to summon members to the chamber until they are rung at 11 o'clock at night to tell us that we can go home. Irrespective ofwhether we like the conditions that exist in this building or the food or the facilities we are obliged to tolerate them. 
One of the greatest disadvantages we suffer is the conditions under which we have to take our meals. With the exception of the period during which I was Minister for the Army, I have been on the House Committee for 6 years. From the moment I went on to it I discovered that I was one of the many members from all political parties who had been pressing for some sort of reasonable system of air-conditioning in the dining room. Look at the little lounge to which members of Parliament can take their guests. We ask people to come to Canberra and see Parliament House and the national capital. We take them for a drink into a dingy little room in which only about 14 people can sit. I think you will agree with me,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that these conditions are utterly primitive. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - I do not drink. 
I know you do not drink,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  As the proceedings of the Parliament are not being broadcast at the moment one can be quite honest about these things. But the conditions are quite primitive. Perhaps of more importance is the question of the air-conditioning of this building. It is of interest to note that a recommendation has been made to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this respect. It is to be hoped that a favourable decision will be forthcoming. For 6 years we have been told that the matter is being looked into. 
It should be understood that members of Parliament have no alternative dining facilities, unless they are affluent enough to go across to The Lobby Restaurant, which was supposed to be a restaurant built for the convenience of family groups visiting the Parliament. They were supposed to be able, if they so desired, to go to the The Lobby and have an inexpensive meal after visiting the Parliament. Honourable members know what has happened in that respect. Honourable members know the great protest that was made by both sides of the House about the services provided at The Lobby. I believe that some sort of a snack bar has been incorporated into the premises. But the people involved missed the punch altogether. 
Finally, I wish briefly to pay tribute to the staff of the Parliament generally. I think the attendants are quite remarkable people. They must go through a period of boredom while they sit around waiting to do whatever we require of them. Despite that they do whatever is required of them in a very congenial manner. They are great fellows. The services provided by the Parliamentary Library are quite remarkable. Sometimes an honourable member will say to the Library officers that he wants certain information within the next 24 hours or the next 7 days.The information is brought to his room. It is fairly complete. However, I wish to make one small comment in regard to the information provided by the Library. 
Have you been drinking or something? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! 
I just thought- he is a friend of mine. He understands me. Sometimes the information we receive from the Library is in precis form rather than in longer form. I refer now to the parliamentary committees, and in particular the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I think that Party politics should be thrust aside and members of Parliament should get together. Sometimes the times for meeting of these committees clash with the various party meetings. I think the present system is causing considerable inconvenience and results in members from all parties being unable to attend meetings they should otherwise attend. I think something should be done about that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
MrDUTHIE(Wilmot)(8.36)  -I  appreciate many of the points raised by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter). His  speech was rather refreshing to listen to when comparing it with the speech made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  just before the sitting was suspended for dinner. We heard a tirade by the honourable member for Bradfield expressing criticism and contempt for the Parliament in which he works. There was not one extenuating circumstance about his speech. I have heard the honourable member for Bradfield make many speeches in this place for many years.  His  speeches, while debating the estimates for the Parliament, have always been the same. He has done nothing very dramatic in his own way to change the parliamentary system and the procedures that he criticises and condemns.  His  speeches receive headlines in the Press because the Press will pick up criticism of this Parliament quick and lively, but a person who praises the Parliament or tries to make some contribution to it receives no publicity. The honourable member for Bradfield has been a publicity chaser in this respect. 
I have contempt for any member who continually bashes this Parliament as if its members are a bunch of nincompoops, nitwits and conservative fellows who have no wish for improvement or anything like that. The facts belie what the honourable member for Bradfield said in this Parliament today. He made a speech which would be outrageous in any circumstances. If any member from this side of the House made a similar speech I would condemn it in the same way. We have so many critics outside the Parliament that it staggers me to think that a member like the honourable member for Bradfield runs with a pack of hounds baying through the countryside, as it were, against this institution. It is the finest institution in the country. It is one of the greatest features of democracy that I know. I will not receive any publicity for praising this place. It happens that I have been a member of Parliament for 28 years. On Friday I had my twenty-eighth anniversary in this Parliament. 
I wish to raise 2 matters. I will refer to the first quite briefly. On 26 September last in reply to a question put to him by my Leader, the right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  stated: 
The present scheme has been grossly abused by the Premier of Queensland, to name one who has grossly abused the scheme. 
He was referring to the non-metropolitan unemployment relief. He went on to say: 
He has used Commonwealth money to channel financial assistance to the Brisbane City Council - the amount is some $280,000  -  when the real need in Queensland is in country areas and not in the Brisbane City Council area at all. 
In doing so whether knowingly or not he was actually criticising an action taken by the mei.;l:.: .;.:.- io ico'- at the details of the statistics for the electorate of Mallee. I would be pleased to hear any representations from him or from anybody else on what can be done in relation to those individual cases. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the details of the information that I have given. 

<graphic href="086131197310104_85_0.jpg"></graphic>

Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones who I might mention is a personal friend of mine and someone for whom I have almost a real affection. However, if I may I will present the facts to the House. 
On 14 February last year the previous Federal Government at the Premier's Conference allotted Queensland an extra $10m including a special grant of $2.&lt;25m for rual unemployment relief. The next day, 15 February, the Australian Labor Party Lord Mayor of Brisbane Alderman Clem Jones stated in the 'Courier-Mail' that the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke  Petersen, had sold Brisbane right down the line in not demanding money for unemployment relief in Brisbane. Alderman Clem Jones said: 
No one denied the need to spend money to relieve unemployment in country areas - 
That is typical of him because he is a fairminded man - but Brisbane had almost 50 per cent of Queensland's population and 50 per cent of the unemployed, yet . was not to receive a single cent. 
This was last year of course. On 18 February, 3 days later, the Treasurer and Liberal Leader in Queensland,  Sir Gordon  Chalk, demanded a special grant of $lm for Brisbane unemployed. The next day the then Minister for National Development  Mr Swartz  said that 

<graphic href="086131197310104_85_0.jpg"></graphic>

Queensland could use any or all of its allocation in Brisbane or directed through the Brisbane City Council. That same day Alderman Jones claimed that  Mr Bjelke  Petersen had stopped the allocation of funds at the Premiers' Conference. 
On 23 February last year the Queensland Cabinet approved the granting of funds out of its allocation to the Brisbane City Council to create 500 jobs. The Lord Mayor, Alderman Jones and the then A.L.P. Federal  President, Mr Tom  Burns, were both quoted as saying that the Premier was interested only in the country and had given the bulk of its funds to country areas. This is in contrast to what was claimed by the Minister for Labour. I just want to clarify the position and put it on record. 
The main matter on which I want to speak tonight is the provision of television stations for areas which I and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  represent and also areas represented by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and one or two other honourable members. We have been struggling in our attempts to build up in the minds of the Australian public the fact that the people in these areas are deprived of most amenities. The people in that part of the world have been waiting for 10 to 15 years for any sort of television service. If I am speaking vehemently I am speaking no more vehemently than when I spoke during the course of the term of the previous Government. It is not just a matter of coming forward now and taking pieces off this Government. Like the honourable member for Maranoa, over a period of many years, I have had a consistent point of view on this matter. 
Finally, we are told that the areas we rep.resent are to receive the services of a certain number of stations. Admittedly, the stations are not going to be renowned for the areas over which they will provide a television signal and this is most regrettable. However, I suppose we were pleased that we were going to get some sort of television service. I asked question after question on this matter and wrote letters continuously, particularly this year. I think I wrote about 6 letters and telegrams before I was able to get any sort of precise information. 
The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in good faith I am sure, on the advice of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, gave us details as to when these tele vision stations would be operating in our areas. They were to be installed in the electorate of Kennedy. A program in writing was given to me setting out information quite specifically for which I was most grateful and which I publicised widely because I had previously (been given nebulous information over the whole of this year. At last I was able to tell cur people that they were going to have a television station, after years and years, by December 1973. This was one of the specific details which were provided. 
However, quite by chance I have found out something. Let me impress this on the Control Board. I was at a conference last week in Julia Creek and in the text of a telegram dealing with something else - admittedly it dealt with television but not with programming - it was pointed out that some of the stations which had been mentioned would not now be in operation by February 1974. 1 want to voice the most vehement protest about this bungling that has been going on and the way in which the people in these areas have been treated. The honourable member for Maranoa and these people and I have been treated as second rate citizens. First of all we were beggarised around. We received nebulous information - sidestepping information - from the Broadcasting Control Board. Both the responsible Ministers -  Sir Alan  Hulme and  Senator Douglas  McClelland - had to base their information on the information they received from the Control Board. I think that the Board had better pull up its socks and it had better treat the people of inland Queensland with a damn sight more respect. 
I will now place on record the facts. I do not know whether the honourable member for Maranoa has received subsequent information but we had not received any information regarding this revised programming. I have not received it to this date. I am going to ask why. I am sure that the Minister will demand from the Control Board the reason for this shabby treatment not only of the representatives of thousands of people but also of those people themselves. This is not good enough and I voice my protest. I will certainly take the matter to the Minister and demand a precise statement - there will be no more kidstakes - as to when these stations will go into these areas. I will demand to know the reason why there has been this further delay and also why were were not advised as to why the delay has occurred. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. In view of the rumoured outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Bali and West Irian, will the honourable gentleman give the House and the people of Australia an assurance that the present protective measures will be highly intensified and that, if necessary, additional steps will be taken to prevent any possibility whatsoever of this disease spreading to Australia? 
Like the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  I do not have very much to say on this matter. I commend the Bill and certainly give it my support. I do so as one who lived in Cloncurry, th ; town where the civil aviation of this nation was born. I have to be very careful on this subject because I represent an electorate which is very much involved in the concept of Qantas Airways Limited. Qantas was conceived in Cloncurry, born at Winton, and spent its adolescence at Longreach. Because Qantas was born in the area which I represent I should like to make one or two observations. First of all I wish to pay a very sincere and profound tribute to the Department of Civil Aviation. I think it is acknowledged - that is perhaps more important than being recognised - throughout the world as setting a standard which I do not think any other country has exceeded and probably has not equalled. I should like to place on record my appreciation of the Department of Civil Aviation. Our overseas and international airline, Qantas, emanated from this country and at one time it was an Australian domestic airline. 
I wish to refer to one or two matters which perhaps may not be considered to be terribly important. We were told recently, through the Press and by a splendid report, that one of the factors contributing to Qantas being much more viable now than it was last year - the year before its operations were rather shaky, too - is the reduction of fares. One may perhaps say: 'What has this to do with the International Civil Aviation Organisation?' It has quite a lot to do with it. The standard set by this specialised brach of the United Nations always involves additional expenditure within a nation and draws perhaps a little more on the moneys which are available. The point I wish to make is that if a reasonable fare is set greater profits will be made. I say that as one who is closely associated with the economics of our own domestic airlines. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  come from a State similar to my own and will appreciate that people who are required to travel by air over much greater distances are underprivileged and are very much hit when it comes to paying air fares. Wc cannot impress on the 2 domestic airlines that they should introduce economy class fares on all their air routes. They will not do it. Why do the 2 domestic airlines not follow the example given by Qantas? Qantas has shown considerable profits because it has seen the advisability of making available fares which come within the scope of ordinary people. 
The International Civil Aviation Organisation is a specialised agency of the United Nations. I think one of the great advantages of these various specialised agencies of the United Nations which apply particularly where the lives of tens of hundreds of thousands of people are involved each day is the obvious advantage of having a uniform body which co-ordinates, examines and discusses the standards which set air navigation throughout the world. I think that agency sets a very great examaple. I wish to refer again to Qantas, which after all, is what this Bill is mainly about. We have only one overseas airline, Qantas. I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  the use of stewards by Qantas. I am sure he would agree with me on this matter. When 1 was serving on our coalition parties' committee on civil aviation we had discussions with Captain Ritchie. I did not see eye to eye with him on this matter of stewards, just as I did not see eye to eye with him on a few other matters. Captain Ritchie claimed that there was an advantage in having stewards in the case of emergencies. May I respectfully submit that there are not many emergencies where stewards can do very much when it comes to the final crunch. I use the word 'crunch' advisedly. I see a tremendous advantage in having air hostesses. Honourable members should not get me wrong. Probably one of the most popular airlines - 
Well, perhaps their interest could be distracted. The point I wish to draw to the Minister's attention is that probably Thai Airway International is one of the most popular airlines. It is one which carries communities of men. When I was doing the traps going over to the United Nations, everywhere I went, until I reached Rome, people were talking about Thai Airways International. That airline does not conform with other airlines but has its own rules and regulations, which were pretty wonderful. The airline had air hostesses who had a particular aura, glamour and appeal. 
Australia has a certain image  -  I do not want to dwell too much on that - but I do think that image has been reduced somewhat over the years. The stewards do a wonderful job - I do not wish to put anyone on the wrong track about that- but the appeal that fellows look for on an airline is not there. It may appear to be a very small thing, but I think it is high time that Qantas began replacing its stewards with hostesses. There is plenty of other work available for the stewards in the framework of this huge organisation. The Bill seeks to increase the membership of the Air Navigation Commission from 12 to 15. I Commend the Bill and give it my support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The report by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety is in effect an interim report. A report was previously produced when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. It was thought that a progress report should be submitted. Before dealing with some of the contents of the report I should like to pay tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  whose profound interest in road safety was well known before he actually took over as  Chairman  of the Committee. I am sure that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  would agree with me that the  Chairman  is a man of great enthusiasm. I could not let this occasion pass without referring to  Mr Ray  Beggs,  Mr Ian  Booth and the people who worked behind the scenes. My goodness, what a dedicated person and enthusiast Ray Beggs has been. He has kept all members of the Committee moving. The Committee has had a multitude of sittings - many more than any other committee of which I have been a member. It travelled all over Australia and conferred with people from all walks of life, including .people of very great authority. Some of the witnesses who appeared before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety are regarded as international authorities. They are people who have attended overseas conferences and sapped the brains of the world. They have been able to inform the Committee of some of the most advanced ideas concerning road safety. 
We heard evidence from many witnesses - I would not like to say how many - and I think all members of the Committee were impressed by the staggering figures which indicated that over a 10 year period from 1963-1972 no less than 32,830 people were killed on the roads in Australia alone. If that is not carnage of the worst possible nature, I do not know what is. Over the same period 821,149 injuries were sustained. One of the things which affected most members of the Committee was the consistent pattern which emerged throughout the whole accumulation of evidence. There were cerain factors which were consistent all over the world and which were affecting road safety. The one that was most spoken of - I suppose I can safely say it was the one in respect of which there was the least suggestion as to a solution - was what we have learnt to call drink-driving. As the Committee sat we began to get used to the term 'drink-driving' rather than drunken driving'. It is interesting to note that most of the witnesses agreed quite readily that they themselves drank to a very great extent. They were not wowsers. They were not people with an attitude against drink generally. They contributed a pattern of evidence which showed that the accident rate was due primarily to drink-driving. 
As I mentioned earlier, some interesting suggestions came forward. However, no substantial stand was taken which said that suchandsuch should be done to meet the evergrowing difficulty of drink-driving. There was conflict of opinion as to whether spot tests should be taken with the breathalyser and whether this would encroach on civil liberties. What is more important, civil liberties or 32,830 people over a period of 10 years being killed on the roads? We know full well that this rate will not only keep up but also will accelerate.! The suggestion came forward, profoundly and with great courage, that something had to be done about the drinkdriving problem but that civil liberties should not be encroached upon by having spot tests with the breathalyser. 
It was admitted quite freely, and acknowledged, that the day of the little suburban pub was just about over. At one time as the sun was setting a person could wander off with a few of his mates to the pub - or meet them at the pub - and walk home again. That cannot 'be done now. Today there are great hotel complexes with swimming pools and all the rest of it. What interested the members of the Committee was that considerable space was allocated for the parking of cars. If one drives a car to the hotel to enjoy some conviviality - I would be the last in the world to object to that - honourable members will no doubt agree that one has to drive the car home again and that the driver may not be in quite the same condition. So, a suggestion was put forward - my goodness, who would put this into effect - that parking areas be done away with. This is a matter that could be given consideration. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  I thank the House and I thank the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who is to rise next in this debate. I wish to add one or two points to my earlier remarks. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  has already stressed one of those points. I refer to driver training. I think the accumulation of evidence given to the Select Committee on Road Safety indicated one thing, that is, that a human element is involved. The taking out of one's emotions in a car on the road is something that one cannot do very much about, but one can do something to alleviate the problem. The Committee felt that that could be done from 2 points of view. Firstly, it could be done from the point of view of early training. It was felt that people should be trained almost from their kindergarten days to be made aware of the great dangers of the road and the dangers of a motor vehicle. As someone has said, a motor car which is travelling at more than 70 miles an hour is a killer. It does not matter how good a car is; there is an element of danger when it is being driven at more than 70 miles an hour. I think that those sorts of things could be brought home to children even when they are at their most immature stage of life. So driver training is another element that could contribute to a reduction in the dreadful carnage on our roads. 
There has been talk about an experimental safety vehicle. The honourable member for Diamond Valley referred to it. Work is being done by various companies in various parts of the world on the production of what could be regarded as something approaching a fairly safe car. There are two or three of them around at the moment. When the Committee presents its final report and I have the opportunity of speaking again on this matter it may be the appropriate time to start naming vehicles. I was rather disturbed by what happened recently when I was driving in one of the makes of motor vehicles regarded as being fairly safe. Two things happened which disturbed me. Firstly, as I was driving along with a friend of mine some weeks ago the windscreen wiper came off at a very critical stage of our trip when it was pouring rain. We were barely able to see more than a few yards in front of us. That was a threat to our safety. 
The following day the traffic indicator fell to pieces just as we were about to make a turn. Those are only minor matters, but they happened to a car whose manufacturer claims it to be a safe car; it is a car which is expensive to buy. Those things should be taken care of. 
That brings me to the main point on which I want to say a few extra words. I suppose there is no one in the chamber who has not bought a car with which he has had trouble and who, on taking it back to have the faults rectified has become aware that the wonderful things the dealers promised him when he bought the car - after sales service and the rest of it - would not be easily achieved. One has the devil's own job getting faults rectified. The dealers start their spiel about one having bought a beaut vehicle and about there being the occasional vehicle which has defects. That is for the birds. The Committee was given a hint - the honourable member for Diamond Valley and the honourable member for Melbourne will no doubt remember it - from a representative of the major car distributors in Australia about what to do. I think it will be well worth while if I get this one message across. He said: 'If you are not getting satisfaction from the distributor who sold you your motor vehicle write direct to the Managing Director in Australia of the firm manufacturing the car. You will invariably find that you will begin to get satisfaction! I think that was a very good hint. 
The only other subject I would like to speak about is the possibility of the establishment of a special emergency fund. When the Committee eventually makes its final recommendations it may suggest that the central Government or the State governments - this is a matter which is yet to be decided - should set up some sort of emergency fund. Occasionally one finds a road is deteriorating. I cite as an example a road in Queensland known as the Capricorn Highway. It leads from Rockhampton into a newly developing area in the central highlands. This newly developing area is where most of the major coal mining developments have occurred. I am pleased to say that it is in the Kennedy electorate. It includes such places as Blackwater and Goonyella. What has happened - other areas have had the same experience - is that quite suddenly there has been a dramatic development of the area. Where a short while ago there were only 200 or 300 people there are now several thousand. Many of them are young people who are being paid reasonably WC - well enough to enable them to have a fast car. Those cars are being driven on a road that was meant for slow moving rural traffic. What has happened? It has become a killer road of the worst possible kind. Quite recently 6 people were killed in a collision. Some months before that 5 people were killed. A whole family wa- wiped out. A few weeks before that 2 cars collided and I think 5 or 7 teenager; were killed. 
The trouble with this road is that it is narrow and has deep shoulders. It could either be patrolled by police or perhaps the speed limit on it should be 40 miles an hour. It may even be necessary to close the road. A more sane approach would be for the local authority in that area to bring the road up to standard and make it safe. The State Government may not be able immediately to contribute funds to upgrade the road to the required standard. This is why I think there ought to be an emergency fund which could provide the money to upgrade these sorts of roads where ever they are located in Australia. I do not say that this applies particularly to the electorate of Kennedy, although it might be the finest electorate in Australia. 
I thank you very much,  Mr Speaker,  for the opportunity to speak again in this debate. I also thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for the opportunity to speak again. I just wanted to make those one or two comments. I conclude my remarks by saying that this is a good committee. The members of it have forgotten politics completely. I think it is working towards achieving what could be a policy for the next 25 years in setting the guidelines for a traffic code that will save many lives, instead of wasting lives as we have wasted 32,000-odd lives in this country over the last 10 years. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been a member of this Parliament for nearly 7 years. During that time I have heard the matter of the site for the new and permanent parliament house debated by numerous people on 3 occasions. I do not think there is very much left to be said about the matter. I think it has been covered very adequately today. But there are one or two aspects that I would like to bring to the attention of the House. Perhaps they have been mentioned already, but I would like to enlarge upon them. 
The comment that most impressed me today was one made by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  in which he placed emphasis upon the matter of space. The honourable member referred to the planning of the Capitol in Washington. Of course, we all know the great contribution made to the planning of Washington by the same Burley Griffin. The honourable member mentioned that the acreage of the complete administration area of Washington would be somewhere about the same as that of the space available on Capital Hill. Let me say at the outset that I favour the Capital Hill site. I am not terribly impressed by the argument about the greater accessibility of Camp Hill than Capital Hill. If that problem cannot be overcome, we are much further behind the times than I imagined we were. I am impressed by the argument about the space that is available. 
We have spoken for some time about the inadequate facilities that are available to members of Parliament. They are inadequate, but they are not too bad. I am thinking not just in terms of the complex which will house Parliament and its staff - the great body of people who are involved in this great institution as the institution from which emanate laws which affect the life of each and every person in this nation. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  said that it would be rather difficult if we had to give the minute attention, thought and consideration that are demanded of those who legislate for the life of each and every person in this nation, as the matter goes beyond that. 
As someone else pointed out, about 1 million people visit this city and probably come  into this building each year. I think another 1 million should come in. I think in terms of our aged people and our very young people. I am not getting off the subject,  Mr Speaker,  because I am thinking in terms of the space available in the complex and the provision of conveniences for people such as our aged. When people get older they take a much greater interest in politics. They have more time to sit around and analyse what is happening in this nation. Politics is a talking point for them, and God bless them for it. Our young people also are showing more interest in politics. Not so long ago 'Patriotism' was not a popular word. God damn those who were responsible for that attitude growing up among young people. Fortunately, it is beginning to fade out. I believe that the bringing of young people to Canberra should be encouraged. 
But how do honourable members think that I and others like me, who come from the far northern frontiers of Australia, feel when we see many young people coming to Canberra from Yass, Goulburn, Melbourne and places such as that and being taken through this House and having the great advantage - I do not want any comment on this - of seeing how their members of Parliament behave or misbehave, as the case may be. They have an opportunity to see the great legislative process taking place. But why should people from the far flung areas of this nation be deprived completely of such an opportunity, as young people or as elderly people, to visit this great institution? So we must think in terms of space. I do not think 130 acres is too much. That is one very powerful argument in favour of the Capital Hill site. 
I commend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for bringing this matter forward. He has brought it forward in a form in which we can see some termination of the whole argument. It is not a nebulous sort of proposition whereby we will plan one section of the complex and then perhaps get around to planning the second stage and so on later. The honourable member for Corio has given us a decisive proposition. I commend him for doing so. I say that because of the experience I had as a member of the House Committee in trying to persuade those responsible to supply iced water in the dining room. It is not very. difficult to supply iced water in the dining room, but it took me 2 years to persuade the people concerned that water out of a tap or water that has passed through a refrigerator was not what we in the far flung parts of this nation call iced water. We now have iced water. I have no further complaints in that regard. 
How long would it take to plan, call tenders and accept a tender for an institution of this kind? That is why I commend the honourable member for Corio in asking at least for a decision on this matter. Let us bring the 2 Houses of the Parliament together to make a decision; otherwise we will have to wait until the creaky old machinery of the Senate goes into action, and how long will it, take to produce a decision? Let us bring both Houses together and arrive at a decision. So I commend the honourable member for Corio in that regard. 
I turn to the site itself. Everyone else has spoken about the site. Perhaps they have anticipated the final debate that will take place. What a bonanza it will be if members of the Senate and the House of Representatives are to be together here or wherever it may be. The joint meeting might be held in the Opera House. Speaking of the Opera House, honourable members should have a look at the space that is available around it. If one is not careful one will fall into the drink. So we should think in terms of space. As one approaches Canberra - I do not care where one approaches it from or how one approaches it - and begins to probe into the depths of the city area, or even from the environs of the city, the one aspect that hits one is Capital Hill. For that reason, that is where Parliament House should be. Canberra was selected as the seat of Government. The very heart of the seat of government is the building that houses the Parliament of this nation. Where would one find  ia  more prominent feature than Capital Hill? So if we want to talk in the aesthetic sense or in the sentimental sense, or merely to apply common sense we cannot go beyond Capital Hill. 
My colleague somewhat doubted the great merit in retaining this building. It would be a very sad day for this nation if this building were to be demolished or interfered with in any way. I agree with the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  that it should be an active memorial, not just some great dead thing. I support the honourable member for Macquarie who stressed the aspect of space. We do not want only a building which will provide facilities for the actual Parliament and the people who attend us in this place; we want to have facilities available for all people of this nation so that they can come along and not feel that they are intruders. Do honourable members remember the notices which at one time appeared in the passageways 'Strangers not admitted'? My Government did away with those objectionable signs. People come to visit this place; they own it; we are elected by them, and yet there were signs 'Strangers not admitted into the lobbies'. What an objectionable thing this was. There is much more to the question than just the building itself and the functional operations of it as we understand them. We should erect the type of building that will offer a great welcome to the whole of the people of this nation. It should have special facilities for aged people and for young people, and some scheme should be worked out whereby both those classes of people could be brought to this national capital. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Health. The Minister's much publicised expression of opinion on the danger to public health of the consumption of sugar would now appear to be fully supported by another member of the Australian Labor Party - a very well-known member,  Mr Barry  Jones, MLA, from Melbourne.  Mr Jones  has suggested that laws restricting people's sugar intake are likely in future. He said that when cigarette advertising was banned, liquor advertising would be next and a cut back in the advertising of sugar products would probably follow. When he made those comments  Mr Jones  was welcoming the State Government's decision to fluoridate water supplies. He said that this would go only part of the way and that it was very likely that we would have laws restricting sugar intake. My question is: Will the Minister confirm that this is now generally Australian Labor Party thinking, which will soon emerge as policy, and will he enlarge on his own opinions so that the House and the people of Australia may learn his views in greater detail here in the forum of the nation? 
The first thing that I want to say is that my Leader did not in any way reflect on the officers of the Department of Northern Development. I happen to know that he has the highest regard for those officers. May I add that, in my experience with the Department in the current year, I have had the utmost assistance. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  gave me an open door to his departmental officers and those men have given me every assistance. I must say categorically that in no way did the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  reflect on any of those gentlemen. While on the subject of the Department, I think the decline in the stocks of the Labor Party was triggered off by the treatment that has been meted out to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  Nothing is more glaringly obvious than that he is the one man who is qualified by knowledge and practical experience to understand and to present to this House realistic proposals that would lead to effective decentralisation and a stimulation of industries beyond the metropolitan areas. Because of this very fact he was gagged, and the whole of Australia reacted to that treatment. It is obvious that the desire for power by a small group of people, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  led them to take that action as they considered the Minister to be a threat to them. Now we have the unacceptable situation that the Minister can make recommendations on a proposal, but not a decision. That is an indictment of the tyranny that permeates the Cabinet which governs this nation. 
I wish to touch on a few matters on which I seek the Minister's support. We have spoken about some of them, and others have been the subject of correspondence. The first I should like to bring forward is the subject of water conservation. I did have a comment to make on the Burdekin Dam. My colleague the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has discussed that, and we have had a reply from the Minister. One unusual project of particular significance not only to my area of Australia but also to the whole economics of the mining industry in this area is the Julius Dam. It is a particular project for a particular group of companies. If there is a repetition of the drought years, which must inevitably come, one major mining complex and one or two other mining concerns could well depend on the development of Julius Dam. It is going ahead, but in such a manner that eventually the ratepayers of Mount Isa might be called upon to make an exorbitant contribution. Please understand that I am not being parochial in this matter. I shall constantly contest that this work is a precedential proposition. It is not. It is part of a pattern of economics which is vital to the economy of this nation. There was some support by the previous Government and the terms of repayment have been made a little easier by this Government. That is where the matter rests at the moment I feel that by assisting, the Government would not be creating a precedent; it should certainly reconsider the matters and make an actual grant for the financing of the Julius Dam. I shall not speak any more on that dam as I want to raise one or two other matters: it is well konwn to the Minister and his officers, and I seek his earnest support in making it possible. 
I know that a lot of people are doing hard work on the Bundaberg irrigation scheme and that the Minister is interested in it. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  has been constantly bringing this matter forward and I would not attempt to encroach on what they have been doing. An extraordinary situation has arisen: a dam has been built, but the waters in that dam will not be brought into use in the most effective areas. There is a stalemate. If I am wrong in this, I ask the Minister, as he has been doing in the course of the debate, to explain the position in regard to a continuation of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. If there is a bottleneck somewhere in State government recommendations, let us hear about it. 
The road system has been referred to as an important element in northern development. I recall the Anglican Primate of Australia during the first visit to this country of  Her  Majesty the Queen suggesting that an effective memorial to her and her visit would be a national road from the north of Australia to the southern areas. Such a project was under discussion by the former Government and we had hoped for a new era of national roads. As yet, there has been no declaration of policy on roads by this Government. I hope that we shall see a great national highway linking the northern part of Queensland with the southern area, and the construction of the links which are now missing particularly to central Queensland. I agree with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that a road leading up to the Centre from South Australia is also urgently needed. Both of these matters were under consideration by the former Government. I hope that sanity and good reason will prevail, and that the present Government, putting aside all political considerations, will earnestly consider these proposals. I am sure that the Minister will see the benefit to be derived from such roads. 
Ever since I have been able to reason things out I have protested vigorously about the lack of support for secondary industries associated with our primary industries. This is one of the subjects that I feel emotional about. The great primary industries - the beef cattle industry and the merino wool industry - are in inland Australia, and now huge mining enterprises have been established in the inland. It is all right for the toilers out there to sweat it out, produce the raw product, put it into some sort of conveyance and send it to the coast where secondary and tertiary industries provide the white collar work and the more-amenities type of operation thousands of miles away from the place where the products have been extracted, produced or grown. Economists and academics who have talked about this point would probably agree with me that the time is now ripe for the establishment of secondary and tertiary industries in the inland, in association with existing primary industries. 
One example that immediately comes to mind is the phosphate rock deposits at Lady Annie, north of Mount Isa. The honourable member for Mackellar also referred to this matter. When these deposits are developed, as they inevitably will be, and the proposed huge expenditure of $300m or more becomes an actuality, careful consideration should be given to the establishment of secondary industries in the area. This should be right within the province of the Minister for Northern Development, but unfortunately he can make only recommendations, not decisions. This grave injustice highlights the imbalance of the present Cabinet and shows the strong grasp and dictatorial power exercised by the Prime Minister and one or two of his colleagues. I urge the Minister to make the strongest possible recommendation, as only he can, on this matter. I am sure that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  could not do so unless someone wrote out the recommendation for him. Let us be reasonable. The Minister for Minerals and Energy lacks the practical experience and knowledge of the Minister for Northern Development. I urge the Minister for Northern Development to recommend that fertiliser be produced in the north near the site of the rock deposits. It must be kept well in mind that there will be wholesale develop ment in the northern part of the Northern Territory. 
It has been proved that Townsville lucerne is the best legume for the local area. With the establishment of a fertiliser industry in the north, fertiliser would be distributed on a scale that has never before been visualised Why should fertiliser not be produced in that area? This is a good example of a place at which a secondary or tertiary industry could be established in association with an existing primary industry. 
Ten minutes is a ridiculously short time in which to deal with the many matters affecting northern Australia. I shall close on a human note. I and others have been urging for years that pensioners and similarly situated people living in the north and the west should receive some sort of parity commensurate with that enjoyed by workers under ordinary industrial awards. This is a matter on the human side for which I seek the Minister's support. I want some sort of parity for all kinds of pensioners in those areas. They are deserving of some sort of equality so that they might be able to meet the high costs associated with freights and the like for people living in northern Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. As the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Minister for Labour have isolated one industrial dispute for the Government's unrelenting and quite out of character action, which will not even permit Australia's top civil aviation authority,  Sir Donald  Cameron - Anderson - to arbitrate, will the Minister give an assurance that immediate and effective action will be taken to provide isolated areas of Australia, such as the Gulf of Carpentaria, the Channel country of Queensland and similar areas with an alternative service which will make sure that those areas receive food and other urgently required necessities while the present situation  persists.  
First of all, I would like to say that this debate has been a good one. The 4 honourable members who have taken part in it so far have contributed constructive remarks. I have no doubt that those honourable members were sincere in what they said. It is obvious that they have to a greater or lesser degree taken a conscientious and meaningful interest in Aboriginal affairs. I would like to commence my contribution to this debate by paying a tribute to the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who is sitting opposite me at the table at the moment - that snowy-haired old rascal, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant).  It is with a great deal of regret that I refer to him as the Minister for the Capital Territory. I do not know whether his move from the portfolio of Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to that of Minister for the Capital Territory can be interpreted as some sort of political manoeuvre, but when he went out of office a tribute was paid to him by both sides of the House. 
I would like to give my credentials as to my experience among Aboriginal people. I have spent a complete lifetime among them. I preface my remarks by saying that no one has to tell me about the thinking, the living, the desires or the hopes of genuine and sincere Aboriginal people. I found that when Gordon Bryant took office there was a feeling of confidence among Aboriginal people, not that there was any lack of confidence in the previous Minister or the Minister before him. It was well known that Billy Wentworth and his wife spent many long months among the Aboriginal people getting to know them and their way of life in order to make a realistic evaluation of what could be done and should be done for .these people. However, I believe that there was a feeling of great acceptance of Gordon Bryant when he became Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
But then came bewilderment. Let me stress that not for one moment would I reflect on the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  But the fact is that the Aborigines did not know the new Minister. They had a feeling of great bewilderment almost immediately that the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs went out of office. 
They felt that suddenly someone who they had come to recognise as having a sincere and genuine interest in their affairs had been removed. This action was a blow to the genuine Aboriginal people. I regret to say that this bewilderment persists. 
I support this Bill. The legislation provides finance which if used and applied' correctly will bring tremendous benefit to each of the States involved. The State of Queensland which the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and myself represent is the State, perhaps with the exception of the Northern Territory which is the responsibility of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  most involved in Aboriginal Affairs. Hence we have a real and very lively interest in what will happen to the finance that will be made available. I wish to read to the House the answer that was given by the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who was the previous Minister for the Interior, in a genuine desire to clear up a matter concerning turtle farming. I believe that the answer given by the previous Minister is relevant to this debate. The question put to the Minister was: 
Will the Minister make available to the Parliament the Auditor-General's Report on the conduct of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd? 
If so, when will the report be presented to the Parliament? 
In layman's language the question asked: What happened to the turtle farm?' In his answer  Mr Bryant  made a genuine attempt to clarify the position. As far as I know and as far as we can see the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is pursuing this course. The reason why I am bringing up this matter is to express the hope that this question will be pursued and clarified and that the facts will be revealed to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. The answer from the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is as follows: 
A firm of chartered accountants and not the Auditor-General was appointed by the directors as auditor, for the purposes of the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1962-73, of Applied Ecology Pty. and Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. Consequently, it is not the Auditor-General's responsibility to report on the conduct of these companies or to inspect and audit their accounts and records. 
The Auditor-General's responsibilities are limited under the Audit Act to ensuring that payments made to the companies from the Public Account have been approved by the competent authority. A similar situation exists with regard to his responsibilities under the Aboriginal Enterprises Assistance Act in respect of payments made to the companies from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
The Minister goes on to say in his answer: 
I might add that the Audit Act makes no provision for Ministers to request reports from the AuditorGeneral on particular matters. In accordance with that Act, the Auditor-General includes in his Report to the Parliament such information as he thinks desirable in relation to those examinations and inspections carried out by him in pursuance of the provisions of the Audit Act or any other Act. 
Here was a general probe to ascertain just what were the powers of the Auditor-General. Apparently, they were not such that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs could produce and reveal to the House the actual details of this whole operation. So the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  obviously with an equal desire to have the matter clarified, has promised that he will pursue the question. We would certainly hope that he does. 
It is interesting to note that there was not a great deal of regard for the ecology in this matter. The name of the company includes the word 'ecology', but I am afraid that not a great deal of consideration was given to the environment when the whole operation began. From what I can learn, it appears that environmental consequences were not taken into consideration. I believe that the clams are eating the worms and the turtles are eating the clams, so if you want to have turtle soup you can have noodles at the same time. Hence, there has been a great imbalance and a complete maladjustment of the environment. It is fairly obvious that this conglomerate will not assist in the rather worthy project of raising 39,000 turtles. I rather think that we will have to go elsewhere if we want our turtles. However, this is only one particular project. 
I notice that this Bill involves the expenditure of $32,250,000 and that of this, $14,422,000 will be allocated to housing. I think it was hoped that this money would be sufficient to build 1,100 houses. May I say with a great deal of pride that if the kind of operation that is happening in my home town of Cloncurry takes place throughout this nation, we will build at least twice that number of houses. A very worthy gentleman, the Reverend Alan Lanham, who I am sure is known to honourable members, has begun an operation which has been in existence for, I think, a year or two. Reverend Lanham is a 
Methodist minister who has taken some time off from his ecclesiastical responsibilities. I might mention also that he is a master builder. With voluntary Aboriginal labour, he has made quite an achievement. We who have spent our whole natural life living, working and playing with Aboriginal people, know that they must do the sort of work to which they are adapted. A rather remarkable thing is happening in the town of Cloncurry where a stranger - a Methodist minister and master builder named Alan Lanham - I repeat his name for honourable members - came into the town. He has been able to encourage enough voluntary labour among the Aboriginals to build home after home - top quality houses - for perhaps one-third less than they woud normally cost. Perhaps the figure is even more favourable than that. There is a threefold advantage in this. Firstly, the taxpayer is seeing his money used to the best advantage. Secondly, there is an involvement - this is terribly important - among Aboriginal people. They feel that they belong and that they are part of the whole project of building these homes. Lastly, they are probably among the best homes in the town. One thing was observed. I pay tribute to a previous Premier of Queensland,  Mr Pizzey,  who laid down strict guidelines for Aboriginal housing. When he approved of funds for the construction of these homes in outback centres, he said that they must be built in various parts of the town; there was to be no such thing as segregation or the setting up of specific communities. I know that a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Wentworth,  was acutely aware of this same provision. These houses are a splendid example of co-operation between the Aboriginal people and someone who was dedicated to their advancement, progress and decent housing. I assure the House that the allocation of $14,422,000 would be spent to the best advantage if the same principles were applied throughout Australia. If we could get the same type of person, as Alan Lanham there would be no difficulty in building homes for Aboriginal people. 
There is an extremely important factor that no one would understand better than the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  If one is going to house Aboriginal people in the sort of housing that they want, somehow or other one must strike a compromise between a modern, well-built home and a dwelling that somehow suggests to them that they are still out in the open air. I am not an architect but we have gone close to it out there. We must not make the break too severe. Do not push them. I remember the honourable member for the Northern Territory, after 30 years experience of living among these people and winning their confidence, warning us many times in this House not to push them too far lest we break their hearts. It must be done without a great deal of fuss. However, we are achieving decent housing for Aborigines. It is a matter of how we do it. 
There is an allocation of $ 10.3m for health. It is an achievement for an Aboriginal to reach adulthood and to enjoy continued good health. This means that there is a rather worrying degree of infant mortality. This is a source of worry to everyone who has lived among Aborigines and knows their history and what is happening to them. Sister Stacey is well known throughout Australia for her magnificent work for Aboriginals at Alice Springs Hospital, where her specific responsibility has been the training of Aboriginal mothers in maternal and child welfare. Through the good grace of the honourable member for the Northern Territory I had a long conversation with her. She told the story that Aboriginal mothers, being extra maternal if such a thing is possible, were quite wonderful when it came to learning the procedures and techniques of raising children according to modern standards. They would come in from primitive places such as tribal grounds, stay for a few weeks, and in no time learn to look after their babies with infinite care. They would go away fully qualified, probably with a rate of advancement better than that of European mothers. The great sadness was that in no time they would revert to their tribal customs. I have never checked this out, but I believe it. 
The sort of Aboriginal with whom I have had a close association is somewhat different, which bears out what my colleague says, namely, that there are various categories of Aborigines. This is one of the clear indications that a uniform set of rules for Aborigines throughout Australia would not be satisfactory. It appears that with these people who move from tribal ground to tribal ground, or to various parts of their tribal ground, the custom is for the healthiest child to receive the major care. Hence the health of the very small and very delicate infants is very likely to decline and all the good work that takes place at the maternal and child welfare centres is lost. This is one of the great problems that everyone interested in the welfare of Aborigines is trying to solve. It is not just a medical problem; it is something that goes back into the very hearts and makeup of the Aboriginal people and is not easy to solve. When we think of their health we think more particularly of the health of the infants and small children. 
May I say, with a good deal of feeling, that it did not help one iota when this Government dispensed with the free milk scheme. If anything contributed to the health of Aboriginal children it was the half pint of milk, or whatever the quantity was, that they received each day. Regrettably that concession was removed quite suddenly. I have appealed to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and I do so again, to reconsider what was a pretty petty decision - the decision to take free milk away from the children, particularly the Aboriginal children of the outback. 
I refer now to special works projects. Most of my experience of the activities of Aborigines and their more lucrative and more prolific types of activity was gained in the area where I have spent, and am still spending, my lifetime - the north west of Queensland. If I was to focus on one particular activity of the Aborigines I would look more specifically at Mornington Island. There I was able, with my colleague the honourable member for Mackellar, to sit down and confer, on a number of visits, with the Aboriginal Councils. They told us quite frankly that if they are doing the sort of work that they do not like they are not much good to anyone. However they said that if they are given something to do that they understand and know they will prove superb at it, although they were not the actual words used. I do not know whether salmon abound in the Gulf but their particular kettle of fish, their particular attribute, was their knowledge of those waters. Honourable members may not know this but they foreshadowed that the prawns would disappear for a particular period. There then came a great crisis in the prawn fishing industry because there were no prawns anywhere in the area for some months. The 
Aborigines had foreshadowed this; they knew the waters. They appealed to be permitted to establish their own fisheries industry. 
The point I am trying to make is that the Government - no doubt it is doing this in the best way it can - should gain local knowledge and let the Aborigines indulge in activities in which they are expert and then they will make a very profound contribution not only to their own advancement but to the advancement of the particular area in which they live.. I think of some of the mining communities that require food. I will not name any specific operation. The Aborigine is in his environment in, for example, raising cattle to supply the meat needs not only of a particular mining enterprise, such as that at Gove, but also that of the towns and the developing areas in that particular part of Australia. Aborigines should be given the opportunity of developing these enterprises. 
Twenty minutes seems a fairly long time to talk but when one has spent a lifetime among people and one has so much to say, those 20 minutes seem to go by very quickly. I conclude by saying that the Aborigines of Australia differ. I would put them into 3 or 4 categories. There is a group of opportunists who, let us face it, are not genuine Aborigines and who will exploit genuine Aborigines who are part of the early and almost forgotten history of this nation. I pay full tribute to a second group - I do not like to hear people talk about the city slicker type of Aborigines - who live in the cities, who have come out of their natural environment and who have obtained university degrees. I had better not start naming people. These people are dedicated to the advancement of their race. They are dedicated in an academic sense. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to make brief reference to 2 inferences drawn by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Firstly, he gave his usual catchcry when he referred to having heard a dirge on behalf of overseas interests. Let me make one point clearly and decisively. Any interest that I have - I am sure this refers also to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  - in this disaster that has hit the mining and the energy industries, concerns the greater numbers of people who are affected by it - not the mammoth companies who can well look after their own interests but the rank and file. The Minister for Minerals and Energy, and speakers from that side of the House who may follow him in this debate, would do well to visit the areas of production, mix with the rank and file and find out what their views are. I issue that challenge and that invitation to the Minister. So much for his claim about the dirge on behalf of overseas interests. 
The Minister made reference to some minimal action which was taken at some time in the history of Queensland by a State Labor government. Honourable members will notice that he religiously avoided any reference to the huge mining and energy interests that exist in that State and in New South Wales at the moment and which are staggering under the blows which have been perpetrated by this Minister and by this Government. They are staggering under those blows wondering what the future holds and whether there is any security left in the industry. The little man is wondering whether he should develop some lease that he has sat on for years and now sees no future prospects of making a go of it. 
The Opposition has introduced again for discussion as a matter of public importance the conduct or, perhaps more particularly, the attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to matters which we claim are of critical importance to the future prosperity and, what is far more important, the future security of the people of Australia. I refer, of course, to the matter of our reserves of crude oil and the lamentable, unsatisfactory and totally inadequate way in which he and this Government seek to increase those reserves. 
It is an attitude, of course, stimulated and regimented by the determination of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government to reduce all phases of national life in this great country to the sort of radical jackboot bureaucracy that recently reduced the mining industry in Chile to chaos and which brought the workers of that country to their knees. I say again - I think it is worth repeating - that just prior to the regrettable revolution in Chile about 750,000 workers rose in rebellion at one public meeting. This great mass of people could no longer stand tyranny. A ripple is going through this nation at the moment, believe you me. There is only one way that that ripple of insecurity, almost of revolution, can be removed; this Government should go to the people. That is the only way that this problem can be cured. 
Repetition is only rarely justified. On this occasion is it. I, therefore, again ask honourable members to consider these very telling facts which reveal in appalling clarity just how this Minister and this Government have almost completely brought to a standstill any effective oil search activities in this country. I ask honourable members to examine a couple of these facts. I do not like to quote figures but the ones that I will quote are such an indictment that they must be quoted and recorded in the hearts and minds of the Australian people. 
The Queensland oil index was at an all-time high of 458.3 in July 1968; at the end of 1969 it stood at 296.1; at the end of October 1973, it was 101.4. If that fact alone was produced, it would be an indictment of the Minister and his Department. The Sydney Fuel and Power Index in January 1973 stood at 238. I ask honourable members to listen to the next figure. Hold on to your seats. The Sydney Fuel and Power Index at the end of October 1973 was 176. We heard a great tirade - or should I describe it as another historic volumeof unimpressive stuff from the Minister when he referred to the great activities occurring in Australia at the moment. Let him answer the question posed by these facts. Capitalisation of oil explorers in January 1973 was $550m and at the end of October 1973 was $260m. I say again as was pointed out by the honourable member for Farrer quite explicitly that only 11 of the available 31 drilling rigs in Australia are working. That is the fact of the matter. 
Total expenditure on oil exploration development and production to mid- 1973 was estimated at only $1.5 billion. A further $1.6 billion will be needed to develop our existing reserves. These are facts. To the end of 1971 the total government subsidy for this work was $11 lm. These are not fictitious and built up figures that have been thrown at us from the other side of the House. It is a small price to pay over 20 years or more to reach a state of 70 per cent self sufficiency. Much has been said about Australia producing 70 per cent of its petroleum requirements. That is the current position. I point out that the previous Government's policy, and the previous Government's attitude of co-operation with the industry, stimulated by a real concern for the freedom and the security of the people of Australia, did much to achieve this self reliance. But the stark reality is that Australia's demand for petroleum, now about half a million barrels a day, will grow to 2 million barrels a day by the year 2,000. That is a 300 per cent increase. When we enter the 1980s, production from the existing known oil reserves in Australia will be starting to run down. I ask honourable members and the people of Australia to note that point well. 
If we want to keep our 70 per cent rate of self sufficiency we will need to find another 10 billion barrels over the next 20 years or 5 times our existing discoveries to date. If Australia is to be 100 per cent self sufficient we will need to find an additional 4 billion barrels. Exploration effectively, at the moment, has come to a standstill. Despite this dangerous situation the Minister for Minerals and Energy sluggishly, dangerously and with a boorish determination to close the door on constructive dialogue with those in the industry is turning his back on those whom he regards as mugs and hillbillies. He has destroyed all confidence in the people who can produce the oil. Honourable members might well ask: What should be done? How do members of the Opposition see the position?' Let me quote what has been said by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  My Leader said: 
We have 4 choices: First, make drastic efforts to encourage the exploration for, and the development of, new reserves. Second, steadily increase our dependence on progressively dearer and scarcer overseas supplies. Third, drastically restrict our consumption and, by inference, our pattern of economic growth. Fourth, develop alternative energy sources. Perhaps the most unacceptable alternative would be to allow our dependence on overseas supplies to increase, with a consequent loss of independence in foreign policy, and a growing economic reliance on a politically unstable source of supply. Facing this situation, and in view of its closeness, logic should compel considerable intensification of our exploration efforts. It should also compel a comprehensive effort to fully investigate our future energy requirements, and the energy sources that will be necessary to adequately meet them. 
As one who comes from the frontier parts of this nation, I have my mind firmly set on our defence. It is not necessary for me to tell anyone in this House how much the defence of this nation depends upon the availability of reliable oil and fuel supplies generally. Is it not quite obvious that we have here a rather appalling and terrifying cocktail of national disaster, that is, the mixture of a reduction of our defence capabilities to something that is a joke internationally with the freezing of oil exploration in Australia? What would be a greater formula for disaster than a cutting down of our defence capability and a reduction in our oil resources? On this issue alone I challenge the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - I am sure every person on this side of the House would be delighted if he were to do so - to call a double dissolution and to get the verdict of this nation on just how the Government, in particular the Minister for Minerals and Energy, is performing. 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy I refer to his recent criticism of the Queensland 
Government's permitting the acquisition by overseas interests of black coal deposits which the Minister believes are intended for hydrogenation purposes. I ask: What percentage of Australian equity would be regarded as an acceptable minimum in these circumstances? I also ask him whether he has any overall policy priorities in the development of Queensland coal deposits and whether he is restricting the exportation of coal from certain deposits in accordance with this policy. I ask him specifically whether he is disallowing certain black coal export contracts from Queensland of more than 9 months duration. If so, what are the criteria on which he bases the disallowance of such export contracts? 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  sent out a message loud and clear this morning, asking honourable members to keep discussion of the business program of the House as short as possible. I did not propose to speak on this Bill. However, when one listens to a debate and hears statement after statement being made to try to justify what is perhaps the most extreme form or the quintessence of the socialism and regimentation which the Government is inflicting on this country, and when it affects the industries in one's own electorate, one must have something to say. Hence I would like to make a brief contribution to this debate. 
Over the week-end the people of Australia staggered even the greatest optimists. We on this side of the House were confident that the people would express an opinion that would be favourable to us. Gallup polls were blasted high, wide and handsome. No one believed that there would be such a huge expression of opinion as there was against this Government - not against the 2 questions that were put before the people. Let us consider this point: Would it not be the most natural thing in the world for the great mass of Australians to support a Bill which was alleged to control prices? But there was a great fear among the people and they made a wonderful evaluation of the sort of socialism and extreme regimentation that the Government is introducing into this nation, as is typified clearly and precisely in the Bill before the House. This is what the Australian people voted against. If we can get the Government to the polls there will be an even clearer definition of the people's evaluation of what the Government is doing. 
Let me mention very briefly one or two of the dangers that are inherent in this Bill. There would not be a man in this House who would not be afraid of our resources being expended to a point which would bring this country into danger. If this country is self-sufficient in natural resources at the moment, it is purely a temporary situation and it is due to the work of the previous Government. Careful planning, co-operation and confidence between Government and industry made Australia's mining industry the envy of the whole world. I have had practical experience. I was able to visit some of the mining operations in the mid-west of the United States. The people there were generous in their comments. They said that Australia had perhaps the most efficient mining industry in the world. 
Let us get down to realities and look for some example of what has happened in the opposite direction. I reiterate - I have said this time and time again in this House - that the most devastating example of Government interference to an absolutely unacceptable degree in private enterprise has been in the mining industry. This industry demands, I suppose more than any other industry, an expertise and a balance between Government co-operation, private ownership and community control. This concept was upset and blasted asunder when the Government of Chile tried to nationalise the great copper mining industry in that country. What happened there? It was a disaster and tragedy - not for the great mining companies, which pulled up stakes and went and operated elsewhere, but for the small operators. We have criticised the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  We have criticised him rather severely and perhaps a little too much, because after all he is only trying to put into effect the irresponsible and unacceptable type of extreme socialism which his Government espouses. 
I agree with the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  about citing the Launceston Conference as though it were some great happening; that the heavens opened and the Lord descended on the island of Tasmania and gave forth great edicts through the Australian Labor Party. Once again let me commend the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who was courageous enough to declare that the policies formulated at the Launceston Conference would be devastating, particularly to people in rural areas. When he appeared on the television program 'This Day Tonight' he clearly said that many marginal seats held by ALP members in rural areas would be lost. How prophetic those words will prove when we finally get the Government to the polls. 
The big companies can look after themselves. The centre of my electorate is Mount Isa. I do not think there is a person in that city who does not know that the less a person is privileged the more I will raise my voice on his behalf. I have had a procession into my office of the small gougers and the small copper producers whose hopes have been blasted once and for all. These people do not know where to turn. They are saying to me: 'For God's sake, Bob; you people might have been bad enough, but get rid of this mob and give us some sort of a chance to revive this industry. It is frozen. It is dead'. That is exactly what the small producer, the battler, is saying. I challenge anyone to prove me wrong. 
I have read that the Australian Labor Party is forming a party of ten to visit uranium leases. Why the uranium leases? Let this great group of experts from the ALP go to every mining field, get into the canteens and talk to the miners themselves. Never mind about the big executives. I know what will happen. The members of this party will be wined and dined by the managements. Let them get among the miners themselves and learn just how they feel about the Government, its regimentation and the way it has crippled and ruined this magnificent industry. 
Finally, I refer to the matter of energy. We have reached a most critical state internationally. This country is a little better off than most other countries - not because of what this Government has done but, I repeat, because of the wise planning by the previous Government and the co-operation between it, industry management and, if you like, the unions. The contribution of the unions has been tremendous. I commend the Trades and Labor Council in Mount Isa as an example to any group of unionists in all of Australia. It had to get rid of  Mr Mackie  and one or two people in this House who are now Ministers and who supported him and raised funds to keep going in Mount Isa a crippling and cruel strike from which the people of that city staggered and are still trying to recover. It was triggered off by overseas and international disrupters, and everyone knows that. Let them not try it again. Mount lsa has a Trades and Labour Council which is as militant as any in Australia. It will fight for the rights of its workers, but it will not be dominated by foreign ideologies. 
Let me get back to this matter of energy. We know, of course, that anyone who has coal interests at the moment is planning to sell as much coal as he can as quickly as he can because the international scene is not encouraging. We have never given much thought to a most important subject. A group of us recently had the tremendous advantage of seeing something of what is happening in the area of solar energy. I think it is well known to anyone who has the remotest interest in the energy situation that valuable experimentation is going on in southern Arizona in relation to solar energy. The Government is creating a situation in which people with expertise are leaving this country. They are getting out as quickly as they possibly can and are looking for jobs in any country but Australia. Australia was once the country to which geologists, great international geophysicists and the most brilliant men in the mining industry came. It was the Mecca for men in the mining industry. Now they cannot get away fast enough. They know as well as we do that we will be back in office after May or June, or whenever an election is held. That is why they are trying to produce as much disruption as possible. How long will it take us to bring the industry back to a reasonable situation? It will be difficult, but we will do it. Be assured of that. We would do well at least to find out what is happening in the field of solar energy. Having had the opportunity to hear one of the greatest authorities in the world outline the possibilities, I think it is the energy of the future. What is more, it is a natural energy. 
That is my brief contribution. As one who has lived all his life in a mining environment, I want to stress again the desolation, the despair, the uncertainty, and the insecurity of the little man in those areas. The Bill is a monstrosity, a disaster and it embodies perhaps the most extreme form of regimentation of industry we have had inflicted on us. As my leader has said, we will fight it to the last ditch. Our colleagues will do the same. Let us get rid of it and be ready to look back on it as a bad memory and a nightmare in the mining industry. 
I shall confine my remarks almost entirely to the Baralaba scheme. It is most gratifying to see that the present Government has continued to develop the approval already given by our Government for this project. It is not a major project, but it is of great benefit to the area involved. Anyone who knows the general area appreciates that, like most other areas in that part of the world or most inland areas of this great country, it is drought prone. For many years the Baralaba area was recognised as being most prolific, from the point of view of beef cattle production and certainly from the point of view of producing fodder crops, such as sorghum, safflower, and so on. However, it was the old story: It lacked the necessary water. A proposition was put to the Federal Government which involved final expenditure amounting to $1.2m. The Federal Government agreed to provide $550,000 of that amount of money. Although the accent in that area is on beef cattle production and most of the grains, particularly fodder crops, there is always the hope that we may see the coal mining activities revived. I suppose that is a rather strange statement in view of the present policy of this Government which has brought to a standstill any projected mineral development in the nation. But just the same, this project will certainly be a contribution to that type of activity because inevitably there is associated with any sort of mineral production the necessity for adequate water supplies. The proposed dam will help tremendously in this field. 
There are one or two other comments I would like to make. Under the Queensland Government Farm Water Supplies Assistance Acts of 1958 to 1965 technical assistance is available to land holders throughout the State on all matters relating to water conservation and the utilisation for domestic, stock and irrigation purposes on individual holdings or groups of holdings covering the construction of farm dams, irrigation bores, stock bores and pumping and distribution systems. That is the formal declaration by the Queensland Government. Our Party, with the blessing of our coalition colleagues, promulgated a few years ago and was in the process of formulating policy proposals that there should be much greater accent on assistance to smaller individual projects. I mean projects which arc even smaller than the Baralaba irrigation project. 
I think one classic example of the way in which this kind of assistance could be exploited effectively and certainly to the advantage of this nation would be the use of the Keyline irrigation scheme. I am sure that of all people my colleague, who by the way made such a tremendous contribution when he was Minister for National Development and who instilled confidence into all those who were interested in conservation and irrigation - I pay tribute to him - recognises the advantages of the Yeomans-Keyline irrigation system. When I was Minister for the Army I had cause to visit that area. I saw the actual results on the farm. I saw what can be done with this type of irrigation scheme. Even more dramatic was the operation set up by one individual in the Kennedy electorate. I suppose that we speak of those things about which we know most. I refer to an operation near Winton which was put in by a fellow named Charles Phillott. He was laughed to scorn. He was trying to raise sheep on pebbly ridges. Just about the whole of the country looked like pebbly ridges during the drought at the time. Yet he was able to create feed pens. He had no financial assistance. He bought an old worn out grader from the council. He used old tyres and bits of wire. He is typical of the sort of people who live in our part of the world. They stand their ground and they do not wilt under difficulties. He met them as they came along. He was able successfully to turn off fat lambs at a time when the whole of the district was staggering under the most dreadful drought in history. 
My purpose in mentioning this is to demonstrate that there should be a realistic non prejudiced appraisal of these individual schemes. I am yet to be influenced by any argument against the application of the Yeomans scheme. I wish I had the time to elaborate further but time is precious this morning. I have undertaken to confine my remarks to one or two points. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Bills under discussion are very limited. They deal with 2 specific matters. 
I respect your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am just trying to illustrate the relationship between a scheme such as the Baralaba irrigation scheme and the possibility of applying funds to other schemes. I earnestly ask the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who is familiar with the individual difficulties of the people in these areas, to put before his Government a request for further investigation of the ground work which we in government had commenced in order to try to create a major fund which could be used to assist individual drought mitigation operations on the farm or on the grazing properties. 
I would just like to conclude my remarks by referring - I hope I am not anticipating something which may be said by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  - to the unbelievable situation which exists in respect of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme, by which the water is brought up to a certain point and then stopped. I do not have to go into the details of the scheme. I would hope that the Minister for Northern Development will be able to cut out the bottleneck that exists and impress his views on his less qualified colleagues who have to make the decisions. He could put the proposals. I do not want to go into the subject again. I have respect for his ability and his knowledge of this area. I hope that he will be able to overcome the difficulties which exist because of the lack of qualifications and the lack of experience of his colleague who has to make the decision. I ask him to bring into the orbit of his considerations the difficulties of those people who are anxious to see the Bundaberg irrigation scheme concluded. I hope his experience and his status in the Ministry will bear fruit. 
I make one brief point. Inevitably, of course, the amendment will be defeated, the numbers game being what it is, unless some reason prevails on the other side. A number of honourable members from both sides of the House are committed to meetings of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs which meets on Tuesday mornings. Undoubtedly other committees also are involved. I would ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  the  Deputy  Leader of the the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  or whoever may be in a position of influence in determining the timetable of these statutory committees to do something about the meeting time of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs 'because it will be something of a farce if that Committee meets at 10 o'clock and its members have to dash off at 5 minutes to eleven. I recognise the inevitability of what will happen with this amendment but I strongly urge that something be done about the timetabling of committee meetings. 
I am going to be as brief as possible because I know there is an arrangement to have this debate completed as soon as possible. However, it is absolutely essential that I bring before the House, the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the people of Australia not only the extreme devastation caused by the floods in the part of the world that I represent, which is the north-west of Queensland - because that is all over and we cannot do very much about it - but also the aftermath of these devastating floods and the way they have mutilated and mauled 3 of the industries that are most vital to this nation. I refer to the beef cattle, the sheep and the mining industries. Each has been very seriously affected by these devastating floods. 
Before I continue, I would again appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to include on his committee someone who has actually had a realistic and prolonged association with the whole of these floods happenings in the north-west, I know that the Minister for Northern Development played his role very effectively during the terrible time that we went through up there. The reply I received from the Prime Minister when I asked for representation on this committee by someone with local knowledge to act in an advisory capacity to the Minister for Northern Development which I am sure the Minister would greatly appreciate, was that the Minister for Northern Development was on the board and that was that. I did not wish to be placed on the committee myself. The people I have in mind are, for instance, people who are on the flood emergency committee in Mount Isa such as the Mayor of Mount Isa, Alderman Bertoni or the local State member, an Australian Labor Party member, Alec Inch. Both of these men would be able to provide the Minister with detailed information that nobody could appreciate unless they actually lived in the area. 
In regard to the depression that has in its grip the north-western parts of Queensland, I thought I heard the Minister for Northern Development refer to the shire chairman in Normanton when he was referring to the serious losses which had been sustained. Here is a case in point. Here is a man with a family who is just one of many people who built up a substantial property - not a great and privileged company but a little man who eventually got together a fairly substantial property - and who has come to the Minister asking if he can obtain relief or a pension. I can mention many such cases to honourable members. My office in Mount Isa is becoming something like an unemployment bureau. Although I was not in the House yesterday - I was occupied elsewhere - I was extremely interested to hear the suggestion that umempolyment in rural areas is not acute. If I can remember the figures accurately I think that over a period of 3 months, unemployment in non-metropolitan areas has grown from about 34,000 to 51,000 and much of this unemployment is due to the devastation caused by the floods. 
I should like to give honourable members one or two examples which would be repeated in Cloncurry, Julia Creek, Normanton, Karumba and wherever one looks. In the city of Mount Isa are small contractors associated not only with the pastoral industry but also with the mining industry who have been brought to their knees. I can give honourable members specific cases and names and addresses, if they like, of carpenters who have sold their tools merely to keep alive. There is a vacuum in the plan of things constituted by the fact that there is no accommodation or provision for loans of any substance for these people. A group of us, mostly federal members both from the Senate and from this House met here a fortnight ago to make suggestions to the Government regarding assistance for these people. I hope that the Government paid heed to the recommendations that were made, particularly in regard to the small contractor who has not been provided for. 
I mention a coloured friend of mine with whom I went to school, a fellow who built up a tremendous reputation for hard work and who eventually acquired plant worth about $30,000, $40,000 or $50,000.  His  plant now is bogged down and the whole of his activities are bogged down. He has to meet the demands for repayment on his plant which are coming in fast and furiously. That man, through no fault of his own, is completely immobilised. Surely to goodness he should have funds made available to him on the same basis as the small business man. Admittedly, he may not have had his plant washed away by floodwaters but the effects are just the same. That man eventually will be wiped out unless some assistance is forthcoming quickly. I appeal to the Minister for Northern Development who does understand our problems and has a knowledge of them to make sure that that type of person is provided for. I plead with the Minister at least to appoint to his staff as an adviser someone who is from that area. As I say, the man I could most recommend to have conferences and consultations with the Minister would be either the Mayor of Mount Isa, Angelo Bertoni or the State Labor member, Alec Inch - not me; I am not looking for the job. 
Another point I should like to make and which I made long before I came into this House is that I pleaded and appealed to government after government and to Minister after Minister to have helicopters brought into that area for training purposes between December and March. My proposal would be an advantage not only to the people of that area. Let me tell honourable members this: It is not only the great floods of 1974 which have hit the inland part of Queensland and the Northern Territory and other areas which have been affected by these great rains. Even during periods of drought we have had these intermittent flood situations when people have had to be rescued under dramatic conditions and went so close to losing their lives that it was a photo-finish. I can see tremendous wisdom and common sense in my proposal, particularly as I have had the experience as Minister for the Army of coming into contact  with these problems on the other side of the spectrum, namely the training side. Can anyone tell me that to go through the conventional forms of training at Oakey or Archerfield would be anywhere near as valuable to helicopter crews both in the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army as to train in the area I have suggested? It could be done. Anything can be done if we really want to do it. I am quite sure that those crews would gain tremendously through a realistic form of training in those areas, rather than remain around the ordinary conventional training areas. 
I most earnestly appeal to the Government to give serious consideration to this proposition.  Mr Speaker,  it occurs to me that while our permanent staff is on strike, many members of this House go out to dine and I think that as well as dining they are probably lubricating themselves far too much and so we get the silly sort of comments that we are getting from the other side of the House. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I preface it by quoting from Erskine May's 'Parliamentary Practice'. In relation to oral answers by Ministers it says: 
An answer should be confined to the points contained in the question, with such explanation only as renders the answer intelligible, though a certain latitude is permitted to Ministers of the Crown- 
Tt then goes on to say: and supplementary questions, without debate or comment, may, within due limits, be addressed to them, which are necessary for the elucidation of (he answers that they have given. 
I respectfully submit,  Mr Speaker,  that almost every answer given to every question last week required a supplementary question for elucidation. I ask you,  Mr Speaker:  In the interests of restoring at least some suggestion of democracy in this House - taking into account the fact that you have stated often that you cannot dictate to a Minister how he answers a question - would you dictate to Ministers that they should answer the questions and give the information requested? Would you also agree that the answers given last week, particularly by the Prime Minister, showed complete contempt for and arrogance towards the people on this side of the House and the people they represent? 
May 1 says first of all that we totally oppose the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 for the same reasons as we opposed almost everything contained in the propositions that have previously been put to the House and to this nation in regard to the bureaucratic regimentation and the control of the mining industry generally. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has reintroduced the mining code section of the original Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which was deleted by the Senate on 27 November last year. The Seas and Submerged Lands Act in its truncated form asserts the Commonwealth sovereignty over the continental shelf of Australia and the Territorial sea. The 2 Bills before the House seek to establish an administrative framework to implement this legal claim.. The Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973 is the subject of challenge in the High Court and if the Commonwealth's position is upheld it would be a natural and logical consequence to provide the means to carry out this new responsibility effectively. I will have some comment to make a little later on the matter should the Commonwealth's position not be sustained. 
The Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 relates to minerals other than petroleum in off-shore areas. Obviously as such it would have little immediate applicability to resources in the off-shore areas which in the Australian circumstances are largely confined to natural gas and petroleum. However, a wider application could be envisaged as technology and geological knowledge improve, presuming, of course, that we have any technology or geological knowledge available to us. In view of the way it is pouring overseas that is very doubtful. The Opposition's decision in the Senate last year to delete this mining code was based on the almost unlimited discretion contained in this legislation.  Senator Greenwood  last year spelled out our objections in some detail and I do not propose to repeat those objections in excessive detail except to point out a few of the more obvious defects. A power of delegation by the Minister to any public servant is unlimited under clause 10.(1) and clause 10.(2), which state:  10.(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, delegate to an officer of the Australian Public Service, either generally or otherwise as provided in the instrument of delegation, all or any of his powers or functions under this Act, the Royalty Act or the regulations, except this power of delegation. 
A power or function delegated under  this  section may be exercised or performed by the delegate in accordance with the instrument of delegation. 
Obviously these are very wide powers permitting the Minister to grant or refuse; to impose conditions or cancel authorities, licences and permits. Under clause 14 the Minister may grant or refuse a reconnaissance authority, a term which will cause some interest out in the rugged mining country, after examining confidential information which has been supplied. Quite apart from that particular aspect of the powers delegated or seized because of the numbers game by the Minister, I would anticipate an even further reaction of hopelessness among those who are interested in developing smaller mining projects. It might be remembered that we presented our mining policy in great detail only after tremendous prolonged consultation with the industry at all levels. I would think that perhaps our discussions with those interested in the industrial side of mining, more particularly the smaller mining operators, were much more prolonged than they were with the major companies, as we are so often accused. 
As one who has lived his lifetime in mining areas and in a mining environment I derived great joy from the fact that we were at long last to have an independent commission. After all I do not think anyone in his heart of hearts, either on this side or the other side of the House, really appreciates tremendous and absolutely unfettered authority being in the hands of any Minister. I reiterate that the establishment of this commission would have given everyone associated with the mining industry great hope and would have seen this industry develop as it had prior to the disaster which occurred in this nation on 2 December 1972. Let me develop this theme. One of my particular personal joys with the final proposals that we placed before the Australian public was a proposal that a special section of the commission should be established to deal with small producers - the almost forgotten group of people who are involved. I speak not so much of the individual gouger, although he would have been very much involved in the responsibilities of this small miners commission, but more particularly of the people who have pioneered the industry, who are perhaps the last of the frontier men in my part of the world and who have mines that are capable of development and capable of producing for them a moderately prosperous income, but who have never been able to get their undertakings off the ground. They have never had anywhere to go. They have never had anyone to whom they could put their case and they have been just a forgotten group. Our coalition decided to create a special' tribunal or commission to which these people could come for assistance. Special funds would have been provided- for this. However, we will have to wait for another 2 years and 10 months to put that proposal into operation. 
I was talking about clause 22 which provides that the Minister may grant or refuse an exploration permit on similar bases to those provided in clause 13. Before I leave that point I think we should have a closer look at the Bill, particularly clause 13, and spell out just how far the Minister's authority extends in relation to these reconnaissance permits or authorities as they are called in the legislation. Clause 13 states: 
A person may make an application to the Minister for the grant of a reconnaissance authority in respect of a block or blocks. 
This means that there will be regimentation and a bureaucratic approach. I think that if the Government's approach were made sufficiently clear to the Australian people there would be comparatively few members of the Australian Labor Party in the Parliament. I get a little tired of the constant harping on socialism. I much prefer to look upon it as bureaucratic regimentation. Anyone associated with the horse racing game would know that this approach applies with the Totalisator Agency Board. I am not going to knock the totalisators. They serve a purpose in providing funds for the improvement of racing and so on. But they also bring with them a cold, soulless type of regimentation as is contained in this Bill applied to mining. At TAB agencies one goes along, has one's bet and does one's dough. One does not even have the opportunity of listening to a broadcast of the race. This is the type of bureaucratic control and regimentation that is provided in this Bill. If this message got through to the Australian people we would be swept back into office. 
It is all right to talk about horse racing, but the matter is much more serious when it involves those whose hopes and aspirations are implemented in an industry of the mammoth proportions of the Australian mining industry. I turn back to clause 13 which further provides: 
An application under this section - 
shall be in accordance with an approved form; 
My God, there will be some forms to be filled in around this country - 
shall be made in an approved manner; 
shall be accompanied by particulars- of - 
the block or blocks in respect of which the application is made and the operations that the applicant proposes to carry on in that block or those blocks; 
I can just imagine some of the old gougers and small mining operators with whom I come in contact almost every day of my life in the Northern Territory and in my part of north-western Queensland, even being able to afford to provide this information! This sort of requirement immediately eliminates the little man. Clause 13 continues: 
the technical qualifications of the applicant and of his employees; 
That would produce some terribly interesting information. Would one have to be a geologist or geophysicist to come within the orbit of the ministerial approach? The clause continues: 
the technical advice available lo the applicant; and 
the financial resources available to the applicant; 
Once again this would squeeze out the little bloke. This is required by the great so-called Labor Government. The clause continues: 
shall be accompanied by a fee of  S100. 
The small miner might rake that up, I suppose. So much for clause 13. 
This Bill provides the power to take away all rights to continue with work regardless of previous expenditure or undertakings. This discretion, of course, again is left to the Minister and not to the Parliament. I imagine that in the course of time the voice of this Parliament - this fairly empty Parliament at the moment - will be stifled to such an extent that Australia will be controlled by a group of bureaucratic committees. I see this shift of power. It is not even subtle. Under the Coombs approach the people of Australia will not be represented in this chamber; the voice of their representatives will not be worth a tinker's damn. We will be controlled by bureaucrats and academics. Unless one has some sort of professional degree one will have little standing in this nation. That is the way the shift of power is going. So let us look at this provision. There is power to take away all rights to continue with work regardless of previous expenditure or undertakings and this discretion is left to the Minister and not to the Parliament. 
Under clause 57 any permit, licence or authority may be granted on 'such conditions as the Minister thinks fit and specifies in the reconnaissance authority, permit, licence or access authority'. This access authority is interesting. You may have to go to a justice of the peace to obtain an access authority. There may be only one justice of the peace in the area. If you own the local butcher shop and he has started up in opposition to you, he may not give you a permit for access to the area in which you are interested and which you wish to mine. I do not wish to proceed through the whole list of objections the Opposition has to this legislation, but it is sufficiently long and important for us to object to the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill in total. 
It is true that the Bill is drawn in part from the code of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, but there are some important differences which ought to be pointed out. Under the 1967 legislation applicants for a licence were required to accompany licence applications with details of the work proposed to be undertaken and the expenditure involved. In addition, the applicant could set out any other matters for the Designated Authority to consider. Under this mining code that we are considering, work and expenditure proposals are to be included as well as the technical qualifications and financial resources of the applicant, as I just read out. However, a major difference is that the applicant is to provide details of the extent of Australian participation in the venture. The weight that would be attached to that criterion is not known, but we do not oppose that criterion on principle. I think we have always made that approach clear, although we have been misrepresented time and again in that respect. However, it illustrates the difficulty of considering this mining code in the absence of a comprehensive White Paper setting out the Minister's intentions. 
I do not know what are the plans of the Labor Party, but I sometimes think that, if the present Minister for Minerals and Energy got around to the point of retiring and his obvious successor the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  took over, a breath of fresh air would come into the House. I feel that we would get some information and some signposts as to where we are going. I would say to the Minister that he should appreciate what is left to him. It is very sad to see a man leave retirement too late. I think you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  There is nothing sadder than to see a man grow old in this House and have few years left to him. Would you not agree, Sir? 
Before speaking precisely on the contents of this Bill I would like briefly to make one or two observations associated with the Northern Territory and with the operations of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I will commence by saying how grateful I am to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for appointing me as his spokesman and shadow Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory. Needless to say, as one who over his lifetime has been in touch with the people of those areas, I accepted the responsibility with immense interest and pleasure. I do not consider a shadow Minister's role merely to react with hostility to the attitudes and activities of a Minister. Rather than be destructive I will regard my role as an obligation closely to examine the problems and the quality of life of the people at all levels and in all circumstances who live in those areas. As to the Northern Territory, I shall supplement the high quality of representation given by Sam Calder to the area in which he has spent the greatest part of his life. I say with deep conviction that it is the area that he most loves. He has dedicated his life to the people of the Northern Territory with an intense and immense honesty. We shall work together. If the policies of this Government continue io reflect and to project its contempt and vicious disregard for the people in distant areas the honourable member for the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and I will provide the present anti-rural Ministry with a running fight that will never waver. However, I hope that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  will not abandon the people of these areas but will fight incessantly, for example against the cruel decision to terminate the freight and fuel concessions which, for the young people- 
I will tel] you what,  Mr Speaker-- 
The ACTING  CHAIRMAN-  My title is  'Mr Acting Chairman'. 
I am sorry,  Mr President.  In view of your excellent impartiality I should like to give you your correct title. In answer to the interjection by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  let me say that I would have great pleasure in swapping my shareholding for his. I am sure that I would be much better off financially I am quite amazed- despite aU the things I have heard of  Senator Keeffe-  that he is capable of devoting an entire address on an important occasion such as this to an attempt to absolutely mutilatewhat a futile operation that would be- the character of the Premier of the State which annihilated the Labor Party at the last election. The influence of the man is such that every night, when I go down on my knees and say my prayers, I say: 'Please God, may the Labor Party never take  Senator Keeffe  away from North Queensland'. Our majorities go up and up when 

 Senator Keeffe gives vent to the sort of spleen to which he gave vent tonight. 
Tonight most of us were listening to a news broadcast which was interrupted by a news flash which was of tremendous importance to this nation. It told us 2 things. The first was academic, if you like, but it was that the 33  W  per cent deposit which  those  who wished to bring overseas capital into this nation had to lodge with the Reserve Bank, which had been reduced to 25 per cent, tonight was reduced to 5 per cent. Two things happened. Immediately was exposed the shabby deceit or shabby frustration of the mining industry of this nation by what was an attempt to freeze and eventually wipe out private enterprise in this nation, or at least that section of it that was stimulated by foreign investment. 
We heard this great hymn, this great tirade, this great deceit- a grand deceit among many grand deceits- of telling the Australian people that this country was being sold down the drain, that it was being sold out to multi-national companies, and all the other things- the type of thing that  Senator Keeffe  raised tonight- that Government supporters throw into the ring. Successive speakers on the Government side have talked about multi-national companies. In one blow they have conceded that Australia is being brought to its knees by the economic situation which exists here, and they have gone back crawling and asking that foreign capital be brought back into this country. I wonder what sort of a reception their appeals will receive. I am very doubtful about what reception will be given by the people whom the Minister for Minerals and Energy has constantly insulted- he is known for it. I do not say anything personal against him, but he is now identified in foreign money markets as the man who has brought this country to the status of a  banana republic. 
The Bill before the Joint Sitting has been subject to much debate. I think I could safely say that most Government supporters have never intelligently visited a mining centre in their entire careers. I am rather proud to say that about 16 members of my Party visited just about every mining operation in Australia only a few months ago. We discussed the particular problems not with the multi-national companies but with the people involved in the mining industry at all levels. What a great aura of gloom hangs over the whole of the mining industry. It is an industry which two or three years ago was vital to this country. It was bringing tremendous wealth to Australia. It was growing and it offered tremendous possibilities for young people who were prepared to go to the frontier-type towns which were growing up in the mining areas. Government supporters would have you believe that they have won the support of the average working man, the small miner, the fellow who slaves underground. They have not. 
If anyone says that what I was saying is untrue he should look at the results of the last Federal election. He Will find that not one electorate which has a mining centre in it did anything but considerably lower the vote of those candidates who stood for the Australian Labor Party. It is quite a remarkable thing that in the electorate of Kalgoorlie there was a tremendous swing in votes against a man who was highly regarded in that area but who had one great burden to carry. I do not know whether the Minister for Minerals and Energy went out to support the Labor Party candidate in the electorate of Kalgoorlie but the very fact that the Minister and his policies were involved was nearly enough to put the Labor Party candidate out of office. 
-That is right. If one goes through the whole list of electorates in which there are mining areas one finds the same sort of situation because the people in those areas are not being deceived I suppose that if one wants to speak with authority on a particular matter one can do one of three things. One can be informed by the records which are available. One can get information through government departments, but that is an operation which seems to have ceased these days. I believe that the Bureau of Mineral Resources is looking for something to do as it does not seem to be involved any further in the mining industry. There will be 5 men on the Authority, and I would not let three of them examine a specimen of copper that I brought down the other day because they would probably think it was a lump of copper or something Uke that. 
The people in the mining industry are fully aware of the way in which the control of this great industry will fall into the hands of a group of bureaucrats thousands of miles away. We have in charge of the whole operation a Minister who is obsessed with one particular thing. I do not know where he was briefed. I do not know whether he went to Chile for that purpose. I do not know whether he went to some of these Utile experimental countries where they are putting in this new nationalist, all-embracing type of socialism. 
It could have been Patagonia, I am informed by my friend from Queensland who does know something of the mining industry. Is it little wonder that the Government is now crawling back to the people who are capable of bringing tens of millions of dollars into this country to give us at least some reservoir of finance to restore the economy of this nation? If the Government has any doubts about what I am saying, let me refer to the capital investment figures prior to its taking over of the economy of this nation, prior to the beginnings of the conditioning of the industry to being crushed by the Bill before the House. I will list the capital cost of the particular investment which applied to each mineral or group of minerals. 
Until 2 December 1972 the capital investment in bauxite, alumina and aluminium- the alumina family, if you like- was $ 1,297m; the investment in coal- one commodity-was $207m; the investment in copper, lead and zinc was $603m; the investment in iron ore was $ 1,472m; and the investment in nickel was $390m. That makes a grand total of no less than $3,969m. But apparently we do not want any longer the customs of the people who are prepared to make these investments. We do not want that sort of investment in this country. If the Minister went out to Mount Isa and told that to the people I represent I think he might find a deep shaft and a long rope waiting for him. 
We are in the throes of an energy crisis. In other words, all restrictions should be lifted from the development of, and more specifically, the exploration for further possible deposits. Just leaving the subject of oil for a moment, I would point out that there is a crying need for uranium throughout the world at the moment. I only wish to heaven that I had not had reduced to 10 minutes the time available to me because there is so much I could say about this matter. I ask the Minister how much uranium we have sold over the last 12 months. Have we sold one ounce of uranium? The Government has deprived this country of tens of millions of dollars of income because it has not permitted a company even to take out a bulk specimen. I ask the Minister to deny that or at least get one of the Government speakers to deny that the Government will not permit any company in Australia even to extract a bulk specimen of uranium ore. 
My time is running out. I wish to set out very briefly the discouragements which would cause people to reject utterly this Bill. The background of this Bill shows that this discouragement has been built up by this sort of legislation or this sort of thinking. The first discouragement was the termination of the petroleum search subsidy. What a great blow that was at a time when we were facing an energy crisis. I do not know whether we will be able to get out of this city tomorrow. We cannot hitch-hike because no one has any petrol. We cannot get a train because there are no trains running. I do not intend to walk to Cloncurry, let me tell you. The second discouragement was the termination of the tax deductions for share subscriptions. Investment inside Australia had to be discouraged, and the Government succeeded admirably. I suggest that honourable members and senators have a look at the share market today- or do not have a look at it as they will not sleep tonight. 
The third discouragement was the banning of farm-ins. This is the one that really gets me, because I have spent a lifetime with the small gouger, who is now a slightly bigger gouger and who is now perhaps a participant in a small mining company. The Government has succeeded in destroying the hopes of that man. The reason the Government has done so is that it has destroyed the junior Australian companies and their shareholders' confidence as well as giving overseas companies the message that they were not wanted. Our own Australians were not wanted. That is how it is. I would say in conclusion- I have to conclude- that your Bill, your stinking, socialist, anti-Australian Bill, is not wanted. 
I would like to thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who made it possible for these Bills to come before the House this evening. I have the responsibility of leading for the Opposition on the legislation and I will be away tomorrow and I would not have been able to speak if the debate were brought on then. The Opposition, of course, supports the legislation which relates to the Julius Dam and stage 2 of the Ross River project. However, I would like to make a number of comments, particularly about the Julius project. However, I just point out that the previous Government was responsible for the construction of stage 1 of the Ross River Dam project. The legislation now before us relating to the Ross River Dam seeks our approval for the second stage of the dam which will provide increased storage. 
It is significant that the Julius Dam Agreement Bill should come before the House tonight because it was only the day before yesterday that Julius Krutschnitt, after whom the dam was named, died. He was a man who was very much endeared to the people of Mt Isa. I am sure that you will not mind,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I make a very brief mention of this very splendid gentleman. He was one of the men who were responsible for establishing the splendid industrial climate which exists in Mt Isa. He was known to all as' 'JK'. I pay a brief tribute to him tonight. 
The Julius Dam has some rather interesting and unusual features. Firstly the dam was not built for just one purpose. The fundamental and original objective of building the dam was to provide both for the domestic and industrial requirements of Mt Isa. Since the dam was first conceived, other projects in this highly mineralised area have begun to emerge, to be developed and to be extended. One project which I hope will come into existence is the great Lady Annie operation. I hope that we will see it come into operaion a little sooner now that the dollar has been devalued. This huge $200m project will draw water from the dam. I might mention that the Julius Dam is well under construction and we hope that it will be completed by the end of 1975. The dam is about 65 kilometres east of Mt Isa. The dam has the unusual attribute that it will have spare capacity. Money for this extra capacity has not been frivolously approved and spent by the State and Federal governments. The spare capacity, of course, is commensurate with the future demands of the area. It was thought that the cost of providing the extra storage capacity would be $2.9m, but the latest cost is $3.9m. 
The Government proposed to provide $2.56m by way of grant to the Queensland Government towards the cost of stage 2 of the Ross River Dam. I very much regret to say that intense persuasion was not able to convince the Government that the $2m which it proposes to provide for the Julius Dam should be made other than as a loan. I note with pleasure that the period of the loan has been extended after consultation with the Queensland Premier and Government, and that this Government has approved the arrangement that the original terms of repayment of 10 years should be extended to 15 years. I would like to make it perfectly clear that if ever a grant was merited, it is merited for the Julius Dam project, for some very clear and almost third dimensional reasons. One reason is that the dam is providing the life blood for one of the greatest industrial complexes in all of Australia, one of the great money earners. 
With all due respect to my friend, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting opposite and who is deep in thought, he did mention a little earlier in the night- I do not want to get off the subject,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I know that you would not permit me to do so- that the great revenue earned from city people who used telephones subsidised the provision of telephones in country areas. 
In reply I would point out that the latest statistics I have seen show very clearly that 77.7 per cent of this nation's income is derived from primary industry. I would imagine that a great part of that primary industry is out in the back blocks where the backwood bolshies as we have been called recently, go. If we are backwood bolshies that is all right- we are proud to be anything that is in the backwoods. I want to make it clear- I want to repeat it here and I will cry it until the end of my days- that the great preponderance of the wealth of this nation is earned in the back blocks of this great country. So we are not being subsidised by anyone. 
If the men working underground at Mt Isa decided not to work any more, if the wheat growers said that they were not going to grow any wheat and if the cattlemen said: 'We are finished; we have had enough', the whole fabric of the financial structure of this nation would collapse. What has this to do with the Julius Dam? It has everything to do with it because the dam provides the life blood for the huge complex of Mt Isa- the water which is so critically required. Honourable members should know that during the great drought Mt Isa Mines would have been able to continue for only 6 weeks more if the area had not received a little rain, and it rained only a little, let me tell you. The present water supplies at Mt Isa are inadequate. 
Who is to pay for the construction of the dam? Who is to foot the bill? As the money being made available will be a loan and not a grant, the ratepayers of Mt Isa will have to pay. It is not as though the people of Mt Isa do not have enough to pay living out where they do. They pay about 70c or 72c a gallon for petrol. If one drives one 's car 100 miles and puts it in for repairs, in some cases it is cheaper to let the garage keep the car as that might cover the cost of the repairs. The people of Mt Isa have to contend with all these things. One would imagine that, in view of the fact that the national income is to increase by about $ 1,400m, $2m of that amount could be made available as a grant to take the huge burden of financial responsibility off the ratepayers of Mt Isa. 
However, the Opposition supports the Bill with enthusiasm. We are pleased to see that at long last- it has been a long trail- this money is to be granted. May I ask you,  Mr Minister,  to ask the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make the transfer by telegram and to send the $2m up as quickly as possible because we need it desperately. I do not intend to speak on the Ross River Dam because the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has been the person responsible for persuading both the previous Government and this Government to bring this project into existence. 
I should like to conclude on one point. I do wish the Government would look into the policy which we of the previous Government were beginning to examine very closely; that is, the policy of encouraging small water conservation projects such as the key line scheme of irrigation and water conservation. Such a program would do a great service to the nation. What is more, if there are droughts in the future- and there will be, let us face it- if these small water conservation schemes are dotted tight throughout this nation the Government will virtually save millions of dollars. During the most drastic droughts such a program would enable the most arid areas to be fertile and to produce. We support both Bills. I again thank the Leader of the House for making it possible for me to add my small contibution to this debate. 
-I have pleasure in speaking to this Bill which the Opposition supports. The Bill's intention may be regarded as a mere formality requiring approval of funds totalling $279,000 to permit the Queensland Government to proceed with the original program of beef road construction. I thank the Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  for promptly making this amount available so that the Queensland Government may, so to speak, trim off the edges. I take this opportunity to comment on the subject of beef cattle roads because it is an opportunity we do not often get. I should like to stress a few points about beef roads. I suppose that I have a special responsibility because almost the entire beef cattle roads system in Queensland is in my electorate of Kennedy and as shadow Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory I am obviously further involved. 
The Menzies Government brought the beef roads system into existence in 1961. 1 regard this Bill as the culmination of the first era. I should like briefly to examine the way the scheme was presented, some of the interesting highlights of it, the thinking of that particular time and the contribution that beef roads have made. In 1961 the Menzies Government decided to introduce what has become known as the beef roads system. The accent was on northern Australia obviously because in that part of Australia are the great beef cattle producing areas of this nation, more particularly in the Northern Territory, the northern part of Western Australia and the great beef producing State of Queensland. Subsequent events reveal that the original decision was more than justified. Vast distances and remoteness from the main centres of consumption have made the beef cattle industry in northern Australia exceptionally reliant on transport for the integration of store cattle production and fattening and the delivery of cattle in good condition at the main export meatworks and domestic outlets. The seasonality of turn-off creates peaks in demands for transport which add to the difficulty of providing cheap and efficient transport services to the industry. 
In the past lack of efficient transport was a key factor which inhibited the development of cattle properties and delayed the introduction of better management practices. Railways, of course, helped change this pattern. Cattle walked to railheads but out our way railheads can be some distance from cattle properties. For instance in the Northern Territory and in Queensland many properties would be 100 miles from the nearest railhead. This is not an exceptional situation. Long journeys, either by walking or in road trains have still to be made from many properties. Droving was the traditional means of moving cattle in the past era. But it became obvious that something had to be done to bring cattle to marketing centres in good condition. The obvious solution was to turn to creating roads which would carry the cattle trains that were beginning to emerge. What we were looking for and what the Government was looking for in those days in 196 1, which is not so far back, was a permanent system of road transport. People who were going to produce cattle in large numbers and hoping for a developing market would have the security of knowing that cattle could be transported to markets almost anywhere at any time. It was the 'at any time ' aspect which was important. 
Let me deal with one or two interesting side lights. As I said, I will not occupy a great deal of the time of the House. The transporting of cattle by roads was not a development which first occurred in 1961. As far back as the late 1920s, cattle were moved by motor transport in the Meekatharra area of Western Australia. Compared with present day standards, the vehicles were small; neither vehicles nor roads were suitable. That is pretty obvious to everyone. The large scale use of road transport for beef cattle had to await the development and the use of high powered diesel operated vehicles and the building of suitable roads. I suppose it is an unfortunate fact that the impetus that led to this development was the Second World War. The war did necessitate the building of such roads as the Darwin-Mount Isa road. The whole concept began to take shape. People saw that large vehicles, be they wartime or other vehicles, could be used under almost any conditions to these remote parts of Australia. 
Philip Ward of Banka Banka Station in the Northern Territory possibly pioneered the transporting of cattle by road on a large scale. I know that Banka Banka is not in Queensland; I will deal with Queensland in a moment. Banka Banka is a property of about 1,300 square miles. 
It is about 400 miles north of Alice Springs. Ward began sending fat cattle by road transport to Alice Springs every week and from there they were railed to Adelaide. So, he proved the point. He was getting his cattle to market in good condition, getting them there promptly and whenever he wanted to get them there. 
I come specifically to the State with which this Bill is concerned, Queensland. I refer to the magnificent contribution made by successive LiberalCountry Party governments to the building of beef roads. I am pleased to know that the continuation of the grants for beef road purposes has been approved already and that moneys have been made available. Up to 1967, Queensland received $ 11.95m in grants and $8.55m in the form of an interest bearing loan. So, there were some handouts and some loans. The point I want to stress is that 600 miles of roads were completed. Work was in progress on another 600 miles of these roads. In 1968, $39.5m was given to Queensland over a 7-year period. This time, the sum was in the form of direct grants. 
Let us seek to appreciate the tremendous advance that has occurred in this area. No factor has contributed more to the ability of the beef industry to meet requirements than the construction of these beef roads. Let us face the fact that what we know and describe as beef roads could have been called defence roads, tourist roads or classified as the ordinary sort of road which permits a man and his family to get into their motor vehicle and drive, for instance, from Mount Isa to Brisbane, on bitumen all the way. 
I wish to deal with one further aspect which concerns a specific road in Queensland. I will do so with the hope that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory will bring this to the attention of the Government. We must admit frankly that he does receive advice from the State Government concerned. But I do feel that what I seek could be achieved if pressure came from Canberra and co-operation was achieved between the responsible Federal and State Ministers. I refer to the necessity to complete the Winton-Boulia road. 
I know all these beef roads. There is not one beef road that I have not traversed. I had not travelled on some until three or four months ago. Beyond any doubt, the missing link on the Winton-Boulia section presents a very serious situation. May I explain it to the House? The usual direction of transport out of Darwin and the Northern Territory has been traditionally to Alice Springs and then into South Australia.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be delighted to know, as you are a South Australian, that one meets South Australians everywhere. It is becoming more and more the habit now to travel from Darwin down into Queensland, through Mount Isa and on to the other eastern States. 
In the course of the great floods which occurred earlier in the year in Queensland and the Northern Territory, these roads were cut in many places, I must confess, when the flood waters were at their peak. At least the existence of these beef roads did permit communications, the value of which could never have been envisaged. Without these links, the situation would have been quite hopeless. But a problem- a critical factorarose because of the one missing link, some 50 miles of road between Winton and Boulia. This stretch of road has not been completed. This fact upset the whole of the communication system, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  well knows. He and I were in touch almost daily in the course of those floods trying to work some way or some detour by which commodities could be moved through the country. 
The crisis was one of immeasurable proportions which affected areas south and east of Darwin in the Northern Territory. As the Minister for Northern Development well knows, the whole of the Gulf area in the Northern Territory and Queensland was thrown into disaster conditions. Transports which could have brought badly needed commodities to those areas were unable to do so. Let us forget about the Northern Territory for a moment. If that road between Winton and Boulia had been completed, the task of those of us in Mount Isa and in the far north west of Queensland would have been infinitely easier. What was utterly frustrating was the fact that these great road trains would go as far as Winton and no further. Their drivers knew that they could go to a point along the road from Winton to Boulia only to where the bitumen ended. For the sake of a fairly small mileage of road, those supplies were denied to us. I make a plea today for the completion of the beef road from Winton to Boulia. After all, it has been in the beef roads program for years. I would say that the additional funds, over and above the $279,000 provided in this Bill, could be found to carry out that work. 
To illustrate further the tremendous advantage of this beef roads system and to stress further our appreciation of the fact that these funds are being made available, although the amount is limited when compared with the $39.5m provided in the 7-year program, I draw the attention of the Minister to one road to which he, when he originally reported on beef roads, gave a good deal of priority. That is the Lynd Charters Towers road. It is my job, I suppose, to stress and to stress again the immeasurable importance of this beef roads program. I am sure that the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  will appreciate fully what 1 am about to say. I must repeat again and again the importance of this work. With respect to the Lynd Charters Towers road, I point out that the Gulf country had been traditionally the breeding country for beef cattle. Until recent years, there were all sorts of difficulties in this area such as calf mortality. Properties were not fenced. I could speak on that subject alone for the further five or six minutes for which I propose to address the House. More recently, as a natural consequence of the advance and the development of modern techniques, a great impetus has been given to the breeding capacity, the efficiency and the general growth of the cattle industry in the Gulf and near Gulf areas. People who are actively engaged in the industry and whose job it is to plan the future of the beef cattle industry could see that the traditional practice of bringing cattle down into the Channel country was beginning to change a little. Cattle were being brought down into the Charters Towers and eastern areas. 
The further grand design is to have the Clermont-Charters Towers Road sealed so that cattle can be brought right down to the central highlands of Queensland where it is hoped- I say 'hoped' because these days the rural areas are terribly depressed and the people there are wondering just what the future holds- that with a change of government and with a new aspiration and hope for the future we could visualise at least lot feeding or intensive feeding on a scale different from that which exists now. The Nogoa Dam, as it was originally called, or Fairbairn Dam as it is now called, has given new life to the area. When the scheme eventually reaches its culminating point we hope to see many additional farms- I say farms rather than station properties- emerge in that area. So, a beef road has a classification of a development road now, but I have always hoped that common sense would prevail and that the Clermont-Charters Tower road would be reclassified as a result of a recommendation being made to the Federal Government that it be brought into the beef road scheme. Then cattle bred in the Gulf country could be brought down through the Lynd to Charters Towers on the existing beef cattle road and then into the central highlands of Queensland. 
I point out to the House and to the people of Australia that I have expressed my appreciationI think honourable members will agree that I have done so in a fairly generous mannerand given the Government credit for what is an extremely small amount. I would like to stress that these roads will not be terribly useful in the future unless the petroleum differential subsidy is reintroduced. I particularly appeal to the Minister not that it be reviewed but that it be reintroduced immediately. Furthermore, if honourable members read the Coombs Report with its vicious onslaught on people living in nonmetropolitan areas, they will find one or two very ominous recommendations that have not been put into effect. To be quite honest about it they number nineteen. One of them would effect most seriously the provision of diesel fuel. We feel fairly sure about that being implemented. But, even under existing circumstances and under existing pressures on country people, the beef roads will lose their significance if beef trains do not roll over them. 
Many Labor parliamentarians, particularly the Ministers- I am not referring specifically to the Minister for Northern Development- have a habit, if something that they know in their own area is unpopular, of threatening to resign. It has become almost like a Madame Melba contributiona farewell. I suppose the Prime Minister says to his Ministers and members representing the rural areas: 'There is a bit of rough legislation coming through which will hit your crowd again. We are not very worried about them. They have not got that many votes. We know that we will not win the votes back. So when this rough legislation come in you had better threaten to resign again'. So the Minister threatens to resign. But honourable members will note that he never goes on with it. 
I am stressing the point that if this sort of attitude towards country areas persists beef roads will become obsolete. No one will want to use them. They could be used for tourism, of courseif anyone can afford to buy a gallon of petrol. I think we are paying 72c a gallon at the moment. This is of particular assistance to the ordinary working man who depends on his car to come down to Brisbane! If beef roads are to be effective there has to be a lot of supplementary re-thinking in Cabinet. It is no good Ministers and backbench members of the Labor Party coming out with sanctimonious statements time and again objecting to some particular measure that has been brought against the people of the non-metropolitan areas. The crunch is in the Cabinet and in the Caucus. If a decision has been made in the Cabinet or Caucus to hurt my people and to hurt the people of other rural electorates I say that these Ministers and these members have abandoned their electorates and they should pay the penalty. 
-I shall make just one or two comments about the speech made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  I am rather fascinated by his comments though they are the ordinary sort of comments we hear regarding Caucus and the democratic structure of this body. I do not know whether they are completely in accord with a statement made to, I understand, the 'CourierMail' by the Acting Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, in which, talking about the super tax on unearned income, he expressed grave concern that Caucus could override the decision of the Cabinet. So much for Caucus or cactus or whatever it is. Another very brief comment I would like to make is that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro obviously adheres to the rather fascinating theory of the Australian Labor Party that the measure of its success is how much money it spends. I suppose he would say that the trips overseas, including the grand tour on which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is now embarked, are tremendous successes. However, one grand tour is apparently not going to come off. I have in front of me a Press statement which has been issued by the Acting Prime Minister and which says: 
The Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade . . . said tonight that his proposed visit to the People's Republic of China had unfortunately to be postponed. 
He said a misunderstanding had apparently arisen. 
He stated that he had been informed that the Royal Australian Air Force personnel manning the BAC-1 1 1 service aircraft could not wear uniforms whilst on a visit to China. 
That in itself is a very remarkable statement insofar as they tell us what we can wear and what we cannot wear. The Press statement continues: 

 Dr Cairns said that he felt this misunderstanding should be cleared up and had informed the Embassy of the People's Republic of China accordingly. 

 Dr Cairns said he felt it was very likely that the problem which had arisen could soon be cleared up. 
That is pure and utter, unadulterated, 5 -star hogwash because when a Murray grey bull was sent to China it was taken there by the Royal Australian Air Force and the members of the Air Force who took it did not have to strip off and get into a pair of BVDs or anything when they arrived in China. Nixon went to China in 'Air Force One' with the United States Air Force and its members wore uniforms over there. There is a rather nasty rumour around the House that there was absolute uproar in Cabinet tonight. The nation has another crisis on its hands- at least there could be another one by now, I have not checked the newspapers during the last hour. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berrinson)Order! No point of order is involved. 
-Perhaps I should have said there was a get-together during the day in which, apparently, it was indicated by the other members of Cabinet that the situation in this nation was so grave that they would not serve under the Acting Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Connor.  That may or may not be correct, but it is a story around the House. It is a rather nasty one, too. 
A non-Budget has been presented to this nation. It is a Budget which is utterly devoid of any effective measures to control inflation and a Budget which reveals a contempt for the wageearner in 2 categories that affect him the mosthis security of employment and his capacity to borrow for his house, car and the education of his children at a reasonable rate of interest. It reveals clearly and finally the destructive and humiliating policies of the power drunk people who sit opposite. They are rapidly bringing the nation to its knees and building up a pollution of poverty and despair throughout the land. I say that the policies are destructive because the Government has started on a process aimed at finally destroying the two most important and most critical incentives on which the survival, the growth and the pride of any nation depend, that is, the incentive to produce and the incentive to work. The dropout, the parasite, the loafer has found his seventh heaven. He is provided for. He is the VIP in the context of this appalling Budget. 
Do not let me mislead the House. I have a deep compassion, as my whole life style can testify, for the unfortunate who, through illness or sheer bad luck, is out of work and is in need. Our social welfare provisions should ensure that he never will be threatened with poverty or insecurity. But the sheer irresponsibility of the present Government is such that if an out and out loafer, his wife and three late-teenage loafer children care to lead the idle life they can between them get a handout of over $5,000 each year. It is little wonder that the miner who sweats underground, the fettler who swings a pick in a searing heat of 40 degrees and the self-educated student who burns the midnight oil to make his mark and add to the achievement of our people, have found out now that this Government, obsessed to a degree almost of insanity in forcing its fascisttype State controls on them, is now their enemy? It is little wonder that a community deeply dedicated to true Labor principles sought revenge on this so-called Labor Party. The community of fine, outback people in Broken Hill threw out every Labor member on their local council. A gallup poll showed recently a huge swing against these Australian Labor Party wreckers. I mean that they are wrecking the ALP as it was once constituted. It is revealed that if an election was held now we would come back with a majority of 37 seats. That was last week. What will it be after tonight 's occurrence? 
Just be patient. The people of the city of Canberra- particularly our public servantsproved last weekend that they have now realised that they were used as the pensioners, the Aborigines and the school teachers were used. They have been subjected to a pre-election flirtation that was based on a serious miscalculationthat the average Australian can be brainwashed, can be bought. Once again there was a huge drop in support for the so-called Labor Party. To my mind one of the saddest spectacles we see today is the cruel manner in which the people occupying the treasury bench use and deceive Labor supporters into believing that they are giving their allegiance to a workers' party. 
With a few exceptions- worthy exceptions, I must admit- those sitting opposite have sold out every decent, genuine Labor principle. The great objective of the Labor movement was social justice based on the freedom of the individual. The whole philosophy of the Prime Minister and his storm troopers is to wipe out the freedom of the individual and to bring every phase of his life under control. Power unlimited was given to  Dr 
Coombs and his task force to frame recommendations. The finished document was a classic. It was a blueprint for national decline and disintegration. It was a political document framed to deceive people into believing that there were 2 groups of Australians in conflict- those who lived in metropolitan areas and the rest. To my mind, the acceptance of this attitude by the Prime Minister and his vassals was the most treacherous blow ever inflicted on this nation. It was designed with utter dishonesty to convince city people that out yonder were people who had been spoonfed and subsidised at their expense. It openly abandoned rural communities and, to a lesser extent, those living in provincial cities. This alone indelibly brands this Government as treacherous. 
In direct contrast we recognise the interdependence of our city and country people. We are proud of our great cities and the industrious people living in them. In return we ask that we who produce 77.7 per cent of Australia's overseas earnings be recognised as being what we are- Australians who do the yakka work and extract wealth from the soil, in most cases far away from the comfort and advantage of city life. Our people are angry with the uncontrolled prejudice that this Government with arrogance and obvious satisfaction levels against them. There is a stirring throughout the land, a reaction to this treatment. There are groups organising not for violence or anything even approaching it, but for concerted and decisive action which will hurl this Government out of office. Firstly, let us examine more closely what this Budget does not do and, secondly, some of the deceits it contains. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  will try to argue, on a basis of absolute fallacy, that more money than previously is available for rural roads through this Budget. This is humbug and they know it. They quote figures for rural road development, conveniently failing to point out that the amount quoted include allocations for the national roads scheme, which, by the way, had been evolved and accepted in principle by our coalition when in government. It is obvious to anyone even remotely interested in the development of roads in the country that the effective development of important rural roads has been set back to a staggering degree by the advent of this Government. 
The Government constantly brags about what it has done for pensioners. The purchasing power of the pensioner's current pay cheque is far less than it was during our term in office. I would point out that these people who crow about their benevolent hand-outs find it convenient to ignore the special problems of pensioners living in remote areas, pensioners who have to meet both the financial and emotional strains of living in such areas. For example, if a pensioner in a country area is ill and has to seek specialist treatment he has to meet many expenses. He may get free travel but that is only a part of the deal. There is still the problem of accommodation, the problem of making provision for someone to look after his home while he is away, the emotional experience of an aged person having to move to some other area to seek medical attention. This is the emotional strain. The financial strain is very, very evident indeed, because pensioners live in areas where, because of freight and other charges, the cost of living is infinitely higher than it is in more favoured coastal areas. They get not one cent to compensate for these charges. There are western allowances, there are northern parities, there are all sorts of industrial awards to compensate everyone but the pensioner, and the Government crows about how concerned it is. 
Another infliction which is coming up- I do not know whether it has yet reached its climax -is what is nothing less than an imperial edict that has gone out to almost every local authority in Australia that local authorities will have to run their own airports from here on in. If I could give just one example: In my own State of Queensland there will remain only two airports which will be controlled by the Department of Transport- Brisbane and Townsville. I am informed that Townsville has remained under the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government only because it is a defence base. You should see the defence that is there. If a Mosquito flew over they could not shoot it down. 
I would like to touch briefly on the unsympathetic treatment of this Government in the provision of television services. I think in all fairness the blame should be put on the Australian Broadcasting Control Board rather than on the various Ministers. We have been waiting year after year for TV installations. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and I are sick and tired of lodging requests for an amenity which the people on the coast have had for 1 S or 16 years. The Government says it is a matter of finance. Was it a matter of finance when the Government decided to buy Willem de Kooning's 'Woman V for $646,000? Is it a matter of finance that it is now organising the purchase of a 17S0 rococo ceiling by Giambattista Tiepolo for $ 1.35m? How in all sincerity can this Government claim to be responsible when young people are not able to buy a home because of crippling interest rates, when it pays this sort of money, at least in one case for a second-rate painting that I believe was originally purchased for $3,500? What an arrogant contempt for the tens of thousands of unemployed! 
I am in an electorate which I suppose is one of the most significant mining areas in the nation. I would like to say that staunch Labor supporters are concerned at the damage being done to the nation by the minerals and energy policy of the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor.  The Australian people have not been told the truth. They were led up the garden path completely by the FitzGerald report. They know that the Minister has been allowed a free rein without any real sobering restraint at all since he was appointed to that position in that tragic month of destiny, December 1972.  His  disregard for the rules seems to extend to Labor's declared platform. Among other things, the Minister has done nothing towards establishing the promised fuel and energy commission. He tried to have legislation passed to establish this commission but the Opposition found that it was full of traps. 
Having no love for advice from people who understand, the Minister still has not spoken with officers of the Bureau of Mineral Resources from his permanent Secretary down. He has appointed 30 or more advisers and assistant secretaries with little or no qualifications or experience relevant to the mineral or petroleum industries. It is little wonder that this industry has come almost to a standstill. Had there not been existing contracts and had there not been existing operations, this huge industry which is of such tremendous financial and economic importance to this nation would have been brought to a standstill. I know that my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will have much to say regarding that particular area. 
I would just like to comment very briefly on the result of the election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It will clearly indicate that the Territorians, like their colleagues in the Australian Capital Territory, will reject this phoney Labor Government. Prices under a halfbaked price control system are such that the average public servant in the Territory has to be a super-manager. His wife has to be a mathematician of untold ability to balance a budget in that part of the world. Again, the Government shows its contempt for people who live in these remote areas. 
I would like to say also that the present Government made a very grand gesture to win the support of local authorities throughout this country. It gave them handouts but I do not think one single local authority has been duped by the Government's attempt to buy their support. They, of all people, are federalists and they realise that these people who would establish full control in Canberra would soon whittle away any authority for making decisions that they may have. We have certain members of the Labor Party both in Cabinet and on the back benches who purport to represent rural areas. There are exceptions. I would say there are two in this House to whom my remarks do not refer. 
I will name them. They are the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  The Government's proposed policy is to use jack boot tactics in regard to the many measures the Government is inflicting on country people. I will mention one or two of these: There is the phasing out of any serious concern for water conservation; the withdrawal of the subsidy on petrol- what a dreadful infliction that was; and the termination of the freight subsidies in the Northern Territory. If members of the Labor Party and Ministers do not show evidence that they are opposed to the above measures and are genuinely working to counter them and other anti-rural measures many of which are still contained in the Coombs' recommendation- that diabolical documentthey have abandoned their electorates, they have betrayed the people they supposedly represent and they should get out because, whether they like it or not, they will go out come the next election. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the fact that so far as I am aware and informed every approach without exception made by small Australian mining companies and individual gougers for assistance from the Minister's Department and the Australian Industry Development Corporation have been rejected totally, will the Minister spell out his policy and his concern for these underprivileged people who have given a lifetime of service to the mining industry, a policy perhaps such as we on this side of the House have presented, that is, to establish a special small miners commission? 
I shall take only a few minutes. Obviously it was the intention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in attacking my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  in his absence to make a great splash on the eve of an election in the Northern Territory. To impress the people of the Northern Territory he had to make an attempt to explain away the vicious effects of the removal of the differential subsidy on fuel. The removal of the subsidy will overflow into every aspect of the lives of people of the Northern Territory. Let him explain also why the Government has removed the freight subsidies which were of such tremendous assistance in the Northern Territory. Let him go a little further and explain why only one ship of the Australian National Line will be serving the port of Darwin, again reducing the service to the people of the Northern Territory and again contributing to the rise in prices. It is little wonder that the people of the Northern Territory have made up their minds on what they will do on 
Saturday. I will go a little further. Television services have been promised to Tennant Creek and other places. Where are those services? There is contempt for the people of the Northern Territory. The Minister has made his run too late. The Labor Party has withdrawn its star of the firmament,  Mr Ward,  and made him a judge. Obviously the Labor Party has capitulated. It recognises that in the Northern Territory, it will get the same vote as, or even a more disastrous vote than it got in the Australian Capital Territory. The wife of a public servant in the Northern Territory has to be a mathematical genius to try to balance her budget. What about price fixing? I paid 40c for a bottle of Coca Cola in the Northern Territory. What utter rot. The Labor Party has devastated the whole of the prospects of people in the Northern Territory. I come now to housing. People at Tennant Creek have been wading in flood waters and living in shambles waiting for adequate housing. On the eve of the election the Labor Party has approved a number of houses purely as an election gimmick. The Minister has made an attack on my colleague, but he will not make one iota of progress in affecting the intentions of the people of the Northern Territory, and that is to put our Party into office on Saturday. 
I propose to make some comments on the economy of" the country and to indicate more precisely certain specific groups of people who have been caught up in this economic calamity. For heaven's sake, I hope there is no interjection, as is habitual in this House, telling us that this sort of thing is happening in other countries. If ever there was a fallacy it is to try to tell the people of Australia that they can accept the economic calamity, the unemployment situation, because it is happening in other countries. The other countries in which it is happening are for the greater part old tired countries, over populated countries, countries who have their resources whittled away over a number of centuries. This should be Australia's harvest time. We are a young, vital country with unlimited resources. We are under populated; we should be cashing in on the miserable situation which exists in other countries. 
Over the last month or two we have seen the Australian people react to this situation. I am pleased to note that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  is here, because it must have been a great disappointment to him to see the result of the council elections in Broken Hill when 1 1 Labor councillors were wiped out and replaced by 1 1 non-Labor councillors. Is this any indication that the people of Broken Hill, a very fine, distinctly Australian group of people, have suddenly abandoned their working class principles? Does it indicate any reflection on the member for Darling? Not one bit of it. It is an indication that the people of Broken Hill have seen their working class principles handed over to these young czarists, these young aristocrats who have very little in common with the working class principles of the old Labor Party. 
If we are not satisfied with that result, let us look to the Australian Capital Territory, where there is a different group of people altogether, the academic group, a group of people who can think for themselves and who began to see clearly and distinctly that they, like the pensioners and the Aborigines, were being taken for granted. They would vote Labor because they were polarised, or supposedly, as Labor supporters. Yet their Labor support is such that in the Australian Capital Territory Australian Labor Party support dropped, I think, from 50 per cent to 24 per cent. 
Let us go to the climax of this reaction against these young aristocrats- the Northern Territory results. If ever there was an area in Australia that was identified, particularly as to certain parts of it, as being solidly loyal to Labor- not the socalled Labor that we have now but the genuine Labor- it was the Northern Territory in places like Port Darwin and Tennant Creek, to get down to clearly defined areas. The almost unbelievable situation has occurred whereby not one member of the Australian Labor Party has been elected to the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. It has 17 Country-Liberal Party members and 2 Independents. Is anyone going to suggest that the people of Port Darwin and Tennant Creek have suddenly abandoned their working-class principles? Not one iota. What they have abandoned is the present so-called Labor Party. Over a period the people of the Northern Territory have seen their freight subsidies removed; they have seen the shipping service to Port Darwin reduced to one Australian National Line ship; they have seen promise after promise broken in relation to television; they have seen promise after promise broken in relation to housing; they have seen a pilot scheme whereby 20,448 acres of land was taken over and was to be made available at a fair and equitable price to the people of the Northern Territory bungled because one-third of the land was not worth a cracker; they have seen the utter abandonment of themselves and their interests by this centralist Government. 
What I am asking today- this is my particular grievance,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  is for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  then the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and I will throw in the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  for good measure, to define here and now what the powers of the new Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory are going to be. Are they going to persist with the policy and the promises that they have so frequently and flamboyantly enunciated when they have galloped through the Northern Territory like a kangaroo on a red-hot roof that the new Legislative Assembly would have effective and authoritative power? Let them define that power here and now. Let them tell the people of the Northern Territory just what power the Legislative Assembly will have. I point out that my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  not I, would have been speaking on this matter but unfortunately- on behalf of everyone in this House I offer my condolences- his brother died the day before yesterday and hence Sam Calder is not in the House at the moment. What I am now saying he would have been saying. 
So much for the reaction of the people of the Northern Territory. It is not just a reaction to the sad and sorry state of the economy of this nation. It is not just a reaction to the fact that they, like everyone else who lives beyond the boundaries of the metropolitan areas, have been quite arrogantly and almost in a third dimensional manner abandoned by the Government. What the people of the Northern Territory realise; what the people of my electorate of Kennedy realise; what the people of not only northern Australia but also all Australians realise is that this Government has reduced our defences to a shambles. One could occupy a week of grievance days talking about what it has done to the defences of this country, and on the way in which it has stripped this country of any self-respect in its trade relations. 
Let the honourable member for Wilmot answer this one: The Government spent thousands of dollars on a display in China. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  went to China to see it. At this great display there was a photograph of Chou En-lai on one side and  Mr Whitlam  on the other- I suppose that is as it should be- but the Government did not complete one trade agreement. It spent thousands of dollars of the taxpayers money on snivelling and crawling to the Chinese people, but did not write one order. 
I have 3 minutes left in which to speak. The next matter with which I would like to deal is the cattle industry. Here was at least one industry on which this nation could rely. In talking about relying on industries it is interesting to note that 77.7 per cent of the income of this nation came from primary industry. Take that away and this nation is bankrupt. The greatest of those industriesat least it was last year or the year beforewas the cattle industry. One of my grievances is this: I have in my electorate a great number of cattle men and those who depend upon the cattle industry for a living. The cattle man will be able to weather the storm, but what will happen to the contractor, the dam sinker, the railway man who depended on a bit of overtime? They are the little people the Government is supposed to be looking after. What plans does the Government have for trying to stimulate overseas trade in the export of beef cattle7 Never mind about crawling and snivelling to the Chinese at a display in China. Never mind about that. I want to know from the Minister for Agriculture, who slimes everybody over but who does not produce anything very specific, just what plans he has to try to bring some vitality and some economic stability back into the cattle industry. Those are questions we want answered. 
Finally, I move away from the cattle kings to the pensioners. The Government is always bragging about what it does for the pensioners. I have in my electorate in the north of Australia tens of thousands of pensioners who have to meet the cost of northern freight charges. Has the Government ever considered- I have appealed to the Government again and again on this matterproviding some additional allowance to those people who have to meet such freight costs and to those people who have to meet great expense for such emotional requirements as going to the coast to seek specialist treatment? They have to pull up stakes and travel thousands of miles. The Government pays their fare but it does not pay their accommodation expenses. It does not make any allowance in their pensions for meeting the cost of those things. As a matter of fact, its policy is one of gross hypocrisy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-These expenditures, for the greater part, are applied to bring considerable advantage to northern Australia. The purpose of my contribution to this debate is not so much to criticise but to suggest measures that I feel might supplement work that is already under way and certain new initiatives that I feel should be taken in the development of the northern part of Australia, including of course the Northern Territory. I suppose the thing that matters most in northern Australiathis was very much under consideration some years ago when an organisation called the People the North Committee was formed- is that the most important commodity and one that unfortunately until recent years has been in short supply is people. I feel that much of the planning of the north of Australia- not the sort of planning that results from a minerals discovery or that is the natural corollary of the beef cattle industry- should involve a probing into the quality of life which should produce certain action by this Government. But unfortunately we have seen some of the very fundamental processes affecting the daily lives of people put into reverse. 
I mention very specifically the removal of the differential subsidy on petroleum. I know that this has been dealt with time and again in this House. It cannot be discussed too often. It has been suggested that by Christmas perhaps we will be paying a dollar a gallon for petrol in our part of the world, the northern frontier of Australia. Not only have we seen the removal of the subsidy on petroleum, we have also seen other concessions removed such as freight subsidies and so on. I shall not repeat all that again. But I am trying to suggest in a very positive sense that one of the matters that I feel the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the 
Government should examine very closely is the application of differential subsidies- never mind about the wiping out of a differential subsidythere should be such a subsidy introduced for petroleum and other fuels and to such commodities as tyres, cement, building materials and certain basic food commodities, such as flour for instance. This is one of the human contributions that could be made which would very dramatically and completely lift up the quality of life in this part of Australia. For example, air conditioners are not a luxury in any part of northern Australia. In my own small home town of Cloncurry because of a scheme which was introduced there by the local authority just about every place in the town has an air conditioner. 
I want to speak briefly on the brigalow schemes, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. Most honourable members who have had any association or any real interest in the development of the cattle producing areas of the Fitzroy River Basin and this area generally- it extends a little beyond that area but it is commonly associated with the Fitzroy Basin- know that this scheme was introduced to open up, mainly for beef production, areas that were considered to be quite useless. These schemes became known as the brigalow schemes. I think of the young ambitious people who drew a block in those places, particularly under the No. 3 scheme, as the last of the land settlers of this nation. If I might just briefly build a word picture, a man draws one of these blocks, gets an advance which he has to supplement with other finance, and then he moves out with his wife and usually three or four children. They have a great galvanised iron shed. The live in one end of it. This is their home, their storage shed, their garage, their implement shed and so on. They really rough it. 
The people who take up these blocks are the important people of this nation who contribute to the 77.7 per cent of Australia's income provided by primary industry. This is the last figure I saw. Maybe the percentage is down or up a little since, I do not know. But these people contribute to one of the most vital industries that produces that sort of income for this nation. They are terribly important, I would impress on members of this Parliament and the Australian people, not only to the industry with which they are associated but also to all aspects of life in our metropolitan areas. Believe you me, if that income were suddenly removed from this nation the whole economy of this great land of Australia would collapse. I think one of the great disservices to this country- perhaps something that will never be forgiven when the position is truly understood- is the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and this Government have deliberately for political gain built up conflict between the people in the cities and the people in the areas covered by the estimates which we are now debating. This applies not only to people in northern Australia and in the Northern Territory but also to those who live beyond the metropolitan areas. There is a tremendous interdependence of people throughout Australia. How can anyone say that people in the city areas should suddenly be divorced from any interest in the whole national scene? How can anyone say that because people live in the country they regard city people as a lot of parasites? They do not. People in the country regard city people as people who are consuming products produced in the country and as the people who are building up the vitality of our industries. There is an interdependence between the two. This is terribly important when we talk about the estimates for the Northern Territory. 
I will mention one matter which is of critical importance to anyone living in these areas. May I say that my father went out to the bush in 1904 and we have been there ever since. I have lived my lifetime in these areas and I can speak with some authority on this subject. Matters of vital importance to people in these areas include housing, transport, water and food. Housing is probably the most critical necessity to people who live in these areas. I hopped on a plane in Mount Isa yesterday. It was then about 105 degrees and a very dry heat. It is a very acceptable heat. It is much more comfortable than it is here today, but when you go to bed at night the sheets are just about red hot. There is one thing about which I have always wondered. I ask the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is sitting at the table, to pay close heed to this because I am sure he would be interested. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinaOrder!  This is a very serious debate. We are discussing a subject involving millions of dollars. 
-I suggest that some of these millions be devoted to probing into the correct type of housing for northern Australia and the Northern Territory. One particular type of house that has not been examined and which has not been exploited is the adobe. There is an expert on this matter at the Queensland University.  His  works have been recognised. We have conferred and been associated with one another over a long period but unfortunately- he is not going to like this very much- I have forgotten his name for the moment. As I said, his works are recognised. He has made a close study of this question. In Mexico he found that the adobe type of housing was particularly applicable and acceptable in arid zones. The  Chairman  has just come back from such an area so he would know what I am speaking about. As I said, the type of housing used is very important in these areas. 
Let me speak about solar energy. I have had a solar water system for the last 12 to 15 years. I was one of the first to own one in my area. They are expensive to put in but that is the end of the costs. There are no further electricity charges. These systems are most efficient. I venture to say that in the Northern Territory where there are huge areas available, and also in other pans of northern Australia, we could set up solar energy farms. The techniques associated with harnessing solar energy have just about been perfected in southern Arizona by a husband and wife team whose name escapes me. But the fact can be easily unearthed and the techniques could be applied in Australia. 
I conclude on this note. In the Northern Territory we now have a new Legislative Assembly. I appeal to you particularly,  Mr Minister,  to enlighten us on this matter when you make your contribution and close the debate. If you and your Party have been ridgey-dig in the various statements which have been made over the couple of years in which Labor has been in office in regard to realistic and meaningful powers for the new Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory, I think it is high time that these were revealed. The Territory now has its first fully elected Legislative Assembly. I am sure the people of the Territory want to know and they are fully entitled to know what the authority of the Assembly will be. I do not know whether the Government is withholding its decision until it receives the report from the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who is now absent from the chamber. I do not know what the reasons are. I do not know whether there is to be any prolonged delay in announcing the powers of the Legislative Assembly, but I am sure that its members are pretty keen to get into action. I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory- perhaps this would be a fitting occasion- at least to give some indication as to whether the Assembly will have meaningful powers and whether it will have an autonomy which will allow it to deal with things which members of that body only fully understand and are able to evaluate. 
There are many other matters that I would like to mention, but only 10 minutes is allowed for each speaker in the debate on the estimates. This is quite ridiculous for one who is in my position as shadow minister for the Northern Territory. However, I feel that we will have an opportunity later on to debate this matter further. But in the meantime I mention very briefly that some of the matters I did want to discuss included roads, superphosphate and the secondary or perhaps tertiary treatment of the millions of tons of phosphate rock in the nothern parts of Australia. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr Martin)  - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The clock on the wall which indicates the amount of time available to honourable members in each debate shows that I have 10 minutes in which to speak. It is pretty futile in that time to try to deal with a subject of this nature and its ramifications and involvements in the way that one would wish to do. The first subject on which I would like to speak, and on which I will try to be a little more constructive than destructive on this occasion, is the importance, as I indicated when earlier I spoke on this subject, of the small miners in the whole of the mining industry. In the presence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  I point out that no section of the mining industry has shown more durability and tenacity - in the face of continued suppression in recent years and in past years than the junior companies, the small producers, the explorers or, as we know them, 'juniors', or individual gougers if honourable members understand that term. 
If I can bring a personal element into the debate, I can remember the time when I was a small child in the western country going to various gougers meetings, small mining group meetings and so on. These people were trying to get off the ground, suffering discouragement after discouragement, under all governments. I do not specifically point the finger on this occasion at this Government; however, it has done much to eradicate any hopes that these people might have had for the future. The level of exploration activities remained high during this period. They have continued, but the decline in junior participation has been rapid and continuous. In the stock market boom of the late 1960s, some 20 companies were floated publicly on mineral properties in north-western Queensland alone. Of that number, only 3 companies remain active to any degree at present. This is proving somewhat ironic in the light of the recent very high metal prices and the continuing abundant minerals wealth in north-western Queensland and might well answer the Minister's claim that considerable help- he mentioned $50m- has been given to these - 
-I am sorry. I misunderstood the Minister. I think I have asked him for some details in that regard. All will be aware, however, that a chain of suppressive legislative measures has been imposed on the industry in the past couple of years. These are the only logical reasons for the decline of junior activity. Traditionally, juniors have played a major role in fulfilling, first of all the prospector stage. Not only junior groups but individuals have been involved to the promoter stage and the high risk proving stage. It has gone to a pattern. I have lived among these people. I have seen these people trying to get off the ground, to obtain bridging finance or even to obtain access to their properties or mining development areas. It has been an uphill task. 
I- would like to give an example of the success that can be achieved. It is the story of what is now known as the town of Gunpowder. The mine which is involved is the important Mammoth mine. It is undoubtedly the outstanding illustration of the importance of the junior industry in recent years and not only in my own area of north-west Queensland. Naturally this sounds parochial but a person knows best what is happening in his own area. It took a highly entrepreneurial junior company to back its judgment and find the high risk finance necessary to enable the development of this important discovery. It was not just one entrepreneur but a group of people who had sufficient faith in this project. This group brought Mammoth into the small big time, if I may use that term. Although it may sound like it, it is not a contradiction of words. If this were the big time I would be talking of Mount Isa Mines Ltd, but Mammoth was a small operation that began to go places. It is interesting to study future development plans for this particular operation. I could mention one or two similar developments- Lady Annie, for instance, but when most people think of that venture they think of phosphate rock. However, the original development at that location was not associated with that particular deposit. So much for the small miners. I would ask the Minister to consider the establishment of a special tribunal which would enable consultation with and access to him and his officers by these smaller miners. I realise it is almost impossible to believe that the Minister would consider this type of proposal, and that is regrettable, but he would get a tremendously enthusiastic response from these small miners if he gave them access to consultation. 
I have often been accused of being continually destructive in debates on the mining industry but I should like to set out precisely and quicklyseeing I have only 4 minutes remaining in which to speak- some suggestions based on information I have gleaned not from multi-nationals, as I do not normally come into contact with multinationals, but from rank and file people, particularly those in the younger group. I am sure the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  as one of the younger guard would appreciate this. Young and enthusiastic men seek consultation. They come to my office in groups. We have lunch and a few beers together and talk mining. From these discussions have come some of the following suggestions. 
I start first with the subject of environmental policy. If anything bugs a realistic and practical man it is the flights of fancy into which go extremists among environmentalists. How can they be accommodated? The following suggestions for an environmental policy may appeal to them. We should encourage decentralisation of ore treatment to minimise the cost of anti-pollution measures. There should be a system of land use control to avoid conflicts of interest between major processors and local land users, including Aborigines. Conservation and anti-pollution attitudes must be realistic and standards should be based on facts, not emotions or politics. If the Minister were to achieve this last objective he would be immortal. Tax concessions should be provided for anti-pollution expenditures. It should be remembered that I am not talking of the major companies but of all companies most of which these days have Australian investment and some of them only Australian investment. It is regrettable that the Government seems to have the obsession which creates in the public mind the view that we do not have any significant Australian involvement of either finance or knowhow in the mining industry because this is utterly false. I instance the company in my home town of Mount Isa. As is now known, the major investment is in Australian hands and all the knowhow is Australian, not American. However, to continue with some of my suggestions regarding environmental policy. There should be a more realistic system of appeals against councils' directives written into the Clean Air Act. This is something that really bugs those who are concerned with the practicabilities of this matter. 
Air pollution control measures should be flexible, realistic and sensible. The health of the community should at all times be considered and a standard of environment should be maintained. Common sense should be applied. We should promote the exploitation of mineral, pastoral and other resources in northern Australia for the maximum overall and long term benefit of the Australian people. There should be a realisation of the natural wealth which exists in Australia and we should not take for example, one particular project and either support or knock it. This means that there should be regard to how much of this wealth is actually realised. Everyone in the mining industry knows that the question of the cut-off grade is a fundamental issue. I have an interest in a small lease at the moment where some 20 per cent ore has been discovered, but where is the cut-off? The present policy has no cognisance of this point and is a short term policy based on the ignorant concept of an ore body as a finite thing to be milked by way of royalties and so on. It must be exploited to the advantage of the Australian people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It is very difficult for any red blooded Australian, or for that matter any blue blooded Australian, to sit and listen to the people who sit opposite say that there is no possibility of any assault on or threat to this country. That is treacherous and is completely betraying the future of this nation. If the security of this country was not assured, then no other matter would be of consequence. We have earned the contempt of the world in 2 short years. Where we were respected we are now ridiculed. Where we were trusted we are now regarded with deep suspicion. Where our forces had earned the generous and declared admiration of the world we are now written off as having armed forces reduced to comic opera proportions. 
Let me get on to more specific matters. Let me look at the present operational capacity of the Australian Army, which is the branch of the defence forces that I know best. The Regular Army is limited to 6 battalions, together with supporting arms and logistic elements for a force of that size. This means that we could put into the field a complete task force. That is just great, is it not? But, and it is the 'but' that matters, the problem is, of course, to sustain it and to meet other requirements which may arise subsequent to committing that task force. Probably the best way of considering what is the strength which could be sustained in an operational theatre and what the impact would be on the capability of the Army to deal with any other situation which might arise is to look at a possible emergency. Let us get right down to facts. Let us suppose that it were decided to commit a complete task force of 3 battalions in Papua New Guinea to assist in a confrontation situation in that country. Let us also suppose that the immediate requirement was to put 2 battalions into the field in the area of the border with West Irian, with a third battalion as the theatre reserve. With all the logistics elements as well- the supporting arms- this sort of exercise would require something of the order of 10,000 men. It is suggested that we have now committed the whole of the Australian Army. 
There are 3 reasons for this: Firstly, we could not put a force into Papua New Guinea, or for that matter anywhere else, without holding in Australia a substantial reserve to meet unexpected contingencies within the operational area. Secondly, it would be unacceptable to send every fighting unit out of the country. Thirdly, the remainder of the Army- the communication zone and training units- would be fully involved on the mainland. The next consideration is whether we could sustain such a commitment. It is suggested that we could not. In fact, I say specifically that we could not. The initial unit which was sent might have to bear the brunt of very heavy fighting and ample provision would have to be made for its relief. The reserve battalion I emphasise the words 'the reserve battalion' available in the war theatre is unlikely to be sufficient. You might note,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that that is the greatest understatement you have ever heard while sitting in that chair; it is the understatement of the century. A fourth battalion may. be required. It seems to me that the maximum force which ought to be committed in such a situation, in view of the present Army's strength, is a task force of 2 battalions. This would mean that only one battalion would actu.ally go on operations. That might sound a conglomerate, but honourable members should look at this in Hansard and see how serious the situation is. 
The conclusion which emerges from this sort of analysis is that the reductions which have been made in the Army bring its overall fighting capability down by something more than 50 per cent -and, God help us, the Army was little enough before it was reduced to that size. It is emphasised that this approach is concerned only with the immediate commitment which can be made. It is clear that if such an emergency arose the Army immediately would set about raising additional units within a period of 6 monthsGod knows where we would be by then- and it should be able to put a 3-battalion task force into the field. I have here more information that I have written about the Citizen Military Forces as a reserve, but do not let me start on that subject. 
Let me now do 2 things: Firstly, set out clearly how we on this side of the chamber regard the defence requirements of this nation and the measures which we say are necessary to give the 
Australian people, God bless them, effective protection and assured security; and, secondly, at the same time expose the manner in which this present Government, hell bent on a snivelling subservience to every little tin-pot communist country, has emasculated the Army, ripped out its heart and wounded- as yet not mortally, but near enough to it- the proud morale of our defence forces. The first thing we would do is to look for the closest co-operation with New Zealand, co-ordination with its defence Services and, where possible, standardisation of equipment. Forgive me if I smile a little; we were not even able to co-operate with the New Zealand forces on a joint operation a few weeks ago because HMAS ' Melbourne ' was held in port when a handful of men went on strike. The attitude was: 'There is no war. We are on strike; leave it until next week'. So much for that. We would have the closest liaison in defence preparedness with Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and Papua New Guinea and the exchange of personnel for defence training. South East Asia does not trust us. Indonesia in particular has a profound distrust of Mainland China and knows that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)   and this Government are utterly subservient to Peking. 
But what really concerns me and creates an area of potential threat to Australia is the announcement by this Government that all of our defence forces will be withdrawn from Papua New Guinea after independence. The sad fact is that obviously there has been a deterioration at least of this aspect of our relationship with Papua New Guinea. Let me say quite specifically- this is absolutely verified by my experience when I was Minister for the Army-that there was a splendid understanding between Chief Minister Somare and our Department of Defence. In fact, Michael Somare stated- I am sure he will confirm this- that he would desire a continuation of our relationship in regard to 2 matters, namely, foreign affairs and defence. Apparently this attitude has been completely upset. The third thing we would aim at is the strengthening of our ties with the United Kingdom and the United States of America and the utmost cooperation with these countries which are our traditional allies in military training and defence procurement. Is anybody going to tell me that the United States any longer trusts a government whose ultimate objectives are the complete regimentation of every soul in this nation and bureaucratic control with a death grip on the throat of every individual in this nation- things to which the United States is diametrically opposed? Of course it does not. 
Our fourth objective is to promote the active functioning of regional defence arrangements to maintain the security of South East Asia, South West Pacific and the Indian Ocean areas. There is so much that I would like to say on these matters but I would like quickly to list the remaining objectives. The seventh objective is the maintenance of a highly trained and efficiently equipped citizen forces. The Minister for Defence told us some time ago that the CMF had never been in better condition. Let me just give him one example of the condition in which the CMF now finds itself. An annual camp held at Sellheim in northern Queensland is attended specifically by members of the CMF. When I was the Minister for the Army the average attendance at the camp was 1,000 or 1,200 personnel. This year the attendance was very much less than 500 personnel who were mainly drawn from sub-units and had to be grabbed from here, there and everywhere else. 
The tenth objective is the continuing procurement of technically advanced equipment for the armed forced and the maximum possible manufacture in Australia of defence equipment either in part or as a whole. The eleventh objective is co-ordination with the private sector of the economy to build up industrial capability for defence procurement. The twelfth objective is the coordination with Australia's allies in the development, testing and research of modern defence equipment and weapons systems for the use of - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr GARLAND (Curtin)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I intended to speak on 2 matters very briefly but the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  has encouraged me to comment on an attribute which the Government has which is interesting, which is clear and which is regrettable. That is its unique ability distasteful ability to provide jobs for the boys. I am not suggesting for one moment that the matter that the honourable member for Tangney dealt with has any relationship whatsoever with my brief comment. But what has struck me and, I think, every member in this House is the fact that there is a complete backlash, a complete indignation, a complete dropping in morale in the Public Service of this nation. It has been stimulated by appointments such as those of  Mr Grassby  and  Mr Menadue  which have created in the Public Service a clear impression that there is no longer any reward for devotion to service, for length of service, for capacity, for ability. It is purely a matter of someone being brought in and plonked in a position that earns him $26,000 a year. Seniority and so on are of no consequence whatsoever. It is most regrettable. The Government is paying the penalty for it in the tremendous defeat that it suffered in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and these are only a beginning. 
I want to discuss 2 matters, both quite brief. One concerns the Great Barrier Reef in north Queensland. What the people of Queensland, the Queensland Government and I are wondering is when the Wallace report will be made available. This Commission was set up quite some time ago. My goodness, the sort of campaign that the people involved fought in Queensland. They had little old ladies ringing up on open line programs crying laments about the Barrier Reef. The used every possible means to gather protests about the Barrier Reef and what was happening to it. Lately there has been a very strange silence a fascinating silence. The reason for it is that this report has been ready now for many months. One may ask why it is not being released. 
I thought that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  as Acting Leader of the House, would have been here; otherwise I would have suggested to him that he might like to hear my comments. I would ask him to ask his Prime Minister and the Government just when we might expect the release of this report on the Barrier Reef. We can see no reason why it has been delayed. We know it has been available for many months. Is there some sinister motive? I might even be uncharitable enough to suggest that there is a political motive. Maybe an event on 7 December is causing this report to be held within the secret confines of Government circles. 
The other matter is quite brief. It concerns the Julius Dam. I am getting a little parochial, but not entirely parochial because the activities of the principal city of my area, Mt Isa, and the advantages of the operations of that great complex overflow to all Australians wherever they may live. In one way or another they derive some benefit from the overseas earnings of this huge mining complex. What concerns me is not the huge mining complex- it can well and truly look after itself- but that the ratepayers of my city are to be strained to the absolute limits, as though they are not that at the moment, in order to meet the cost of the repayments on the Julius Dam. If I might explain to you,  Mr Speaker,  it is a very large complex which would provide water primarily for the people of Mt Isa and the operations of Mt Isa Mines Ltd. Someone will get up and scream multi-nationals again. I forewarn them that the company has provided some millions of dollars, the local authority has provided quite considerable funds, the State Government has provided significant grants, and the Federal Government has provided a loan, I think of $2.4m- I am not sure of the figure. I will say that this Government has slightly improved- under absolute pressure and consistant barrage from the Premier of Queenslandthe repayment conditions of that particularly lousy old loan. I strongly urge the Government to consider increasing the loan. After all, it is spending unbelievable sums of money on paintings. I do not want to go too far into that subject because it sickens me and I would like to sleep well tonight. I do not want to be nauseated by the thought of all that money going down the drain on the purchase of these second rate paintings. I understand that even the good old 'Blue Poles ' is starting to flake and fade. I do not know whether the same thing is happening to 'Woman V. 
The point I make is that only a little more than $2m is involved and if the Government were to do more in this regard it would make a great contribution to the earning power of this nation and would remove a heavy load from the ratepayers concerned who sweat and toil without the advantages of those living in more favoured areas on the coast but who yet make an immeasurable contribution to the earnings of this nation. 
I commend the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  for his honesty. The speeches that were made with regard to this Bill prior to his making his contribution endeavoured to explain away the fact that this legislation is an arrogant attempt to do what is being done in so many spheres of activity by this Government. He let the cat out of the bag when he fired a broadside at the Anglicans, for some reason best known to himself, by saying something about Anglicans being Tories at prayer. He then mentioned something about the media being the Tories of the air. 
That remark is a little bit poetic but very honestly exposed his attitude. He clearly indicated- in fact he left nothing in doubt-that the object of this Bill is to institute a situation whereby people who are not of his political belief are to be brought under control. It is as simple as that. So I thank him for being honest at least. We all now know where we stand. 
He also went on at great length about the speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I was not in the chamber for all of the speech of the honourable member for Moreton, but what I did not hear in this chamber I heard on the broadcasting system. I do not know whether the honourable member for Casey was referring to a speech that the honourable member for Moreton had given on a previous occasion, but he completely distorted the speech made by the honourable member for Moreton. The keynote, the clear and precise message that the honourable member for Moreton wanted to get across- it is obvious to anybody- was that these matters should come under the scrutiny of this House. He does not want the authority of this Parliament to be decimated, diluted and made completely unacceptable to the Australian people by being whittled away and being placed outside this Parliament. That, of course, is the philosophy of this Government and it is a philosophy that the people of Australia are recognising very clearly and precisely. Honourable members opposite do not want me to remind them of the election results in the Northern Territory, where 17 Liberal and Country Party candidates were elected to a Parliament of nineteen. No Labor members were elected. 
I will speak to this Bill on 2 bases. One refers to the very essence of the controls which are being taken over by this Australian Government in the short time left to it. The other is the authority of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the Australian Broadcasting Authority as we are to know it in future. The Labor Government loves that word 'authority' because the whole concept of the Australian Labor Party is one of regimentation. The Government says: 'Mate, if you want to like a thing, you like it our way. If you want to have your programs authorised by a control board, you will like the programs we tell you to like'. That is the whole essence of that word 'authority'. So this is to be one of the changes. I think in that one word 'authority' comes the message loud and clear that what should be a completely independent board will obviously come under the steel grip of the Australian Labor Party. I notice that the honourable member for Casey talked about millionaires with controlling interests in 10 newspapers. It has always been a source of wonder to me that in Queensland the Australian Labor Party owns radio station 4KQ that earns tremendous money for them. It tried to get channel 7 and fell flat on its face. One of its stars did not do so well on channel 7 either but we will not talk about that. The honourable member for Casey talks about a millionaire owning 10 newspaper companies. One of the fascinating things is that the advertising over 4KQ is advertising by those same millionaires. I am sure that when the salesmen from 4KQ get around the country and the city of Brisbane, they do not express any antagonism, but it is rather a contradiction and I wanted to make that point. 
The honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  have dealt with the Bill in their clinical manner. They have dealt with the dangers of it; they have dealt with the more legal side of it. I should like to take advantage of the reference to the phrase 'to regulate appropriately the programs of commercial broadcasting and television stations' used by the Minister in his second reading speech. Before I make this point, I would like to commend the Australian Broadcasting Commission for its magnificent presentation of programs, and I am not talking about program content but presentation. I had the opportunity when I was in New York for 4 months to see very top quality programs of a similar nature to "This Day Tonight', and I think we are head and shoulders above the lot of them. Some of the ABC productions such as 'Seven Little Australians ' are quite superb. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board is composed of a group of bureaucrats who sit in Melbourne, although they do have boards established throughout the country. However, it occurs to me that those boards can submit recommendations which are very rarely heeded. But we are talking about programming, and some of the programming is quite unbelievable. Last Sunday afternoon while driving over some pretty dusty roads I had the thrilling pleasure of listening to various sonatas and symphonies. I can imagine a group of ringers sitting behind the cowshed in a heat of 1 10 degrees in the shade absolutely jumping with glee and being wildly excited about Beethoven's Sonata in B. Sunday afternoon, for God 's sake ! 
-We get that gentleman in person; we do not have to accept any substitute at all. If the Broadcasting Control Board is so dedicated to correct programming it might look to adequate and suitable programming, programming which is oriented to people and to areas where it is most acceptable. Why interfere with the commercial stations? Forgive me for being a little suspicious, but I rather think that when the axe falls it is going to be mainly on provincial radio and television stations. 
Yes. This morning there was a great tirade by the Government against the people here in the Press Gallery, and this has become quite prevalent lately. I can almost see the cartoons we used to see a few years ago of the capitalist Press. No one complained when morning after morning  Mr Chamberlain  gave tremendous blasts in favour of the Australian Labor Party. No one complained when editorials were written telling the people of Australia that it was high time they had a change. Not a word came from the other side of the House. Now, of course, the members of the Press with their habitual honesty and power of evaluation- these are men of discernment- have evaluated the position, and perhaps they have been influenced a little by the results of the elections that have been held around the country. It is understood that the Press likes to serve to the people of Australia the sort of thing they like to read. When one sees eleven out of eleven Australian Labor Party members being defeated in the council elections in Broken Hill and seventeen out of nineteen seats in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly being won by the National Liberal Party and the other 2 seats going to Independents and when one sees the Australian Labor Party vote in the Australian Capital Territory being reduced from 5 1 to 24 per cent, the Press is beginning to appreciate that the people of Australia do not need to be guided in these matters, that they are waking up to the regimentation that the Labor Party is inflicting on them. 
We have the extraordinary situation where this morning two or three speakers- not speaking on this Bill, strange to say, but in the process of other discussions- made rather unkind cracks at the Press Gallery. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  was one of those who got up today and accused the Press of complete bias and so on. Here is an indication of what the future would hold if this Bill were allowed to go through in this particular form, and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  projected this as clearly and as precisely as anyone could. He talked about the Anglican prayer as the Tory prayer and then he talked about the millionaires. He indicated clearly that he is sensitive to the fact that this mob have gone off with it long enough. I do not know where he gets this impression from, because no one could say that the Opposition has had an easy go with the media. 
Let me revert to the type of program controlling that one would expect from the Australian Broadcasting Authority, as it will become. 
I want to refer to the phrase 'such other persons', which is appearing in a lot of Bills presented lately by this Government. In this Bill there is provision for delegating authority to such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority can delegate to some individual an all embracing authority. The Government will do this in a Bill that is to come before the House within the next week or two, the Bill to stabilise land prices in the Northern Territory, and it has done it here. This provision gives absolutely unbridled control over the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, or Authority, as it is proposed to be called. The whole thing is fraught with danger. 
Reference has been made to establishing standards and to regulating appropriately the programs of commercial broadcasting and television stations. Who is going to say what is appropriate and what is not appropriate? We know from experience the philosophy of this Government, and if honourable members do not know it they should come out to my city of Mount Isa and talk to the various groups there who have fled from other countries where they saw this same pattern taking place and where the gradual grasping of control of things like the media led eventually to complete and utter regimentation. One could not possibly permit this Government, and it could be an even worse government- I do not know whether that is possible, but you never know what the future holds - 
It could be a worse government; I cannot imagine it, but who knows? Gough Whitlam might be gone and Jim Cairns might be there. So we could go from bad to worse. Things can alway get a little worse. One could not permit this sort of authority to be placed in the hands of people like this. The Bill says quite clearly and concisely 'to regulate appropriately'- appropriately according to their standards, which we do not accept. 
I sum up my 2 points. Power would be given to this Government, and particularly to the Minister, who may then delegate authority to people of his own choosing. I do not like to use the term 'jobs for the boys' but, after all,  Mr Grassby  was defeated at the elections, and Normie Foster was defeated. I believe  Mr Grassby  gets $26,000 a year and has a staff of 52. We miss Normie Foster in the House. The House is almost sane these days, but we miss him. He has got a job, though I do not know what he gets. We have got  Mr Menadue  - 
Or Gun- A point of order,  Mr Speaker.  It is a bit of a disappointment to some members of the House that not all of them who would wish to can participate in the debate, but I fail to see why members should be denied the right to participate when they have to listen to the irrelevant material being presented by the honourable member for Kennedy. I would suggest that he be required to debate the Bill before the House. 
-I was of the opinion that when this matter came before the House for discussion it would be more a matter of the pooling of ideas- an operation of cooperationthan a debate in the sense in which we understand the word 'debate' in this House. I think that that view has persisted with all speakers except, unfortunately, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I commence my remarks by paying a very profound tribute to 2 people. The first is my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who, quite obviously, merely carried on in the tradition that he has built up in the area over a period of 30 to 40 years in his deep concern for all that happened on that Christmas Eve in Darwin. The second person to whom I pay a tribute is the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  He wasted no time in getting to Darwin. I arrived in Darwin on the morning of or at mid-day on Boxing Day. He had been there overnight. So he was there just as fast as he could possible get there. 
We then established the foundations that led me to believe that this would be, I repeat, an operation of co-operation rather than the usual sort of debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the honourable member for the Northern Territory and I had a brief discussion with both the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Acting Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, and it was agreed there and then that no political pressures would come into the orbit of the discussions, particularly in those early sensitive days. That is exactly what happened. I do not intend to repeat the tributes that have been paid to all who were involved in those terrible events. They have been clearly stated by both the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory; so it would be quite superfluous for me to repeat them. But there was one thing that struck me in particular on that Boxing Day and the following day, and that is the fact that not one personchild, aged person or anyone else- offered one word of complaint. My goodness, if ever there was room for at least some anguish it existed in Darwin at that time. We saw a remarkable exhibition of not only endurance but also typical Australian reaction to adversity. I cannot put this disaster in any particular category because there is just no precedent for it. One senior pilot who flew over the area and who, as a very young man, had flown over Hiroshima said of the scene of devastation that the only thing he had seen nearly as bad was the scene at Hiroshima after an atomic bomb had blasted Hiroshima pretty well off the face of the earth. So I regard this as being an operation of co-operation. 
Having made that point- I hope that I will not give cause for bringing any vitriolic political argument into this matter- I would like to make just one or two comments. I congratulate the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  on his participation and the fact that he has been able to report to us that no fewer than 1600 houses had been weatherproofed by the end of last month- January. That, I think, again reflects the spirit of co-operation and the actual participation of the workmen involved in facing up to a task of such magnitude. They must have been wondering where in hell to start to rebuild a house that had been almost devastated. So that was a splendid contribution. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction raised one matter that I think is hardly applicable, and that is the Australian representation at the United Nations. In my subsequent remarks I propose to have something to say about the composition of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. By the way, we have more than one delegate to the United Nations; actually we have 6. We have at least 2 parliamentary representatives. We have 6 voting representatives. But let us not get on to the representation at the United Nations, although I have been informed that people associated with the United Nations are terribly interested in just how we will reconstruct Darwin. We are creating a pattern, a prototype, for other devastations of this nature that may occur in other parts of the world. I attempted to tap the pipeline in the United States of America, through various sources there, and I was able to make what I think are some quite valuable contacts. The rather extraordinary reaction was that they have learned to look to Australia for methods of construction that will stand up to cyclonic disturbance and so on. I think that is a great tribute to our technology, our expertise and, to a lesser extent, our rather tragic experience in Townsville and places such as that. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction stressed with a good deal of emphasis that the people of Darwin have the right to participate and to become involved. Most of the substance of what I have to say will be on that very subject. They have been given the right to participate and to become involved to a high degree. Let me say at this stage through you,  Mr Speaker,  to the 
Minister for the Northern Territory that we are not attempting in any way to obstruct the passage of this Bill, but we do believe that if these people are to have the right to participate and to become involved they cannot possibly- getting right down to the crunch- offer a constructive opinion or a constructive observation if they have only received a copy of the Bill almost on the eve of the Bill coming into the House for debate. There was probably some good reason for that, as the Minister will explain, but we have to be realistic about this matter. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development raised the matter of the AlburyWodonga development and similar developments and, in passing, mentioned the National Capital Development Commission. I think it is perfectly obvious that, where there is a pattern of urban and regional development and where one is going to develop an already existing city which has suffered nothing at all in the way of destruction, one is developing and extending and opening new ground, which is quite different from a situation in which people who have had their homes blasted into non-existence and who feel that they want to reside on their own piece of land find a section in an Act which says that by oral direction they may be forbidden to do so. I do not have any great fears about the authority of the Minister for the Northern Territory. I am not suggesting for one moment that he would misuse that authority. But while it exists there must be some qualms. He could drop dead tomorrow or he could be motoring from Mackay to Rockhampton and someone could take a potshot at him. Someone of lesser character than he may take over his job- I, for instance. We do not know just what could happen. So it is a matter of principle; it is not a reflection on the Minister. One cannot compare the extension or development of an area such as Albury-Wodonga with the circumstances that exist in an utterly devestated city. The fact that people have lost their possessions, I think, gives them a greater feeling of ownership of a particular piece of land. I am not saying that they will be deprived of it, but under this Bill it is possible. They could be deprived by oral direction of the the right to go on to that piece of land. If they say ' I am going on to the piece of land whether you like it or not', they can be fined $ 1000 or sentenced to 3 months imprisonment, or both for good measure. So it is a matter of principle. 
The National Capital Development Commission has been mentioned during the debate. If an examination were made of section 12 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-60-1 am sure that the Minister's experts could do this- to strike some sort of compromise, taking into account the emergency of this situation and the fact that no one would argue that there must be a flexible authority in Darwin, I think that people would be much happier. At least they would have some access to appeal. Under the Darwin Reconstruction Bill there is absolutely no room for appeal. In my book of rules- I do not care what the circumstances areevery individual must have the right to appeal or some access to appeal procedure. I am sure that no one could realistically and conscientiously argue against that proposition. 
Let us look at section 12 of the National Capital Development Commission Act. Honourable members should keep in mind that I am arguing that there should be at least some restriction over the powers of this new commission and over the Minister's authority, without casting any personal reflection. I am also arguing that there should be some avenue of appeal. Section 12(1) states: 
The Commission shall keep the Minister informed of the decisions of the Commission with respect to matters of policy in relation to the performance of its functions. 
That is as it should be. After all, the Government is responsible and the Minister is its spokesman. Section 12 (2) states: 
In the event of a difference of opinion between the Minister and the Commission as to the policy which should be followed by the Commission in relation to any matter, the Minister and the Commission shall endeavour to reach agreement. 
That is fair enough. I do not see why that subsection in its entirely could not be applied to the newly established Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Section 12 (3) states: 
If the Minister and the Commission are unable to reach agreement - 
Here is more or less the punchline-  the Governor-General may, by order, determine the policy to be adopted by the Commission in relation to the matter. 
Section 12 (4) states: 
The Commission shall thereupon give effect to the policy determined by the order and shall, if the order so requires, continue to give effect to that policy while the order remains in operation. 
No doubt while I am saying all this people are beginning to ask: 'Is this not a ponderous sort of operation? How will we get into action and reconstruct Darwin and cut corners if we are to have a process such as this?' This process may never be used. The occasion may never arise when the arbitrary powers of the GovernorGeneral, or some such officer, may be used. More particularly, I would like to see someone on the spot, perhaps a special magistrate assisted by a group of 3 citizens, or a body of this nature. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I point out to the Minister that on this occasion we will not propose any amendments. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development mentioned that possibly we would have the opportunity at the Committee stage. That we will not propose amendments is in absolute accord with our attitude to this matter which is that the people who are involved, the people who have been stricken, should have the opportunity, through their elected representatives, of putting their point of view in relation to this Bill. That is what we propose. If we cannot delay the matter for a lousy three or four days, it will be delayed in another place when the amendments will be presented. They will not be drastic amendments. If anyone argues that this is an operation of obstruction I will say, with respect, that the greatest obstruction is that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has not been vested with responsibility and powers. The members of the Assembly were elected months ago. They still have a very limited and nebulous idea of what their responsibilities and powers are. In one blow we could have put into action the machinery which would at least have taken up the slack and would have created some authority on the spot, which is to put into the hands of the Corporation of the City of Darwin, and more particularly the Legislative Assembly, extended powers and responsibilities. I do not think that proposition can be argued against. 
So the Opposition has a very clearcut attitude. We are right behind the stand that there is a necessity for urgent action. We fully support the proposition that there cannot be ponderous machinery which will hold up action. Above all there is a great wealth of evidence to support the proposition that the people have every right to look at the Bill and to analyse it. My colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory, and no doubt the Minister for the Northern Territory himself, have received a great sheaf of telegrams stressing that there is not one section of the community that has not been involved in this matter. I will not call it a protest. We do not want the word 'protest '. But we wish the Government to understand that these people have every right to look at the Bill, to analyse it and to orientate it to their own situation. They know it best. Surely they have the ordinary, normal right of any citizen. The 2 important bodies who have expressed a very clearcut opinion, the Legislative Assembly and the Corporation of the City of Darwin, should certainly be called into conference before this Bill is finally approved. As far as the Opposition is able to influence the matter, they most certainly will have a say. Not only will they have a say, but I am sure that others also will. 
I believe that  Dr Letts  will be coming to Canberra, if he is not already here. I am sure that the Minister will know more about that than I do. I have been assured that 'Tiger' Brennan, the Mayor of Darwin, is coming to Canberra. Who would know the realistic, on-the-spot requirements of this area more than they? They are not coming to Canberra to take over the Minister's authority. They are coming to offer cooperation. They have certain set ideas. They are disturbed about three or four clauses in this Bill about which we on this side of the House are very concerned. One of the matters about which we are concerned is the oral direction. It may only be a minor thing. The other matter is the definition of the Northern Territory which is the whole of the Northern Territory and the waters adjacent to the Northern Territory. One can read the clauses and see where the extreme power, the allpowerful authority of the Minister, applies to the Territory. We are concerned about the area of responsibility for Darwin. The definition of the Darwin area in the Bill means that part of the Territory within a distance of 60 kilometers from the Darwin Post Office. That is 20 kilometers beyond the area affected by the cyclone. 
Let us look at clause 44 of the Bill. The Darwin Citizens' Council and Advisory Committee sounds a pretty good title. I commend the Minister for bringing this desirable committee into existence. It will be a citizens committee not exceeding 20 members. Let us examine this matter more closely. Clause 45 ( 1 ) states: 
Members of the Council shall be appointed by the Minister, after nominations have been called for in accordance with this section. 
That principle is wrong. The Minister for the Northern Territory has absolute dictatorial power in relation to every clause of this Bill. I do not think it is fair to the Minister. As was pointed out in a document formulated by one of the best legal authorities on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- not a member of our Party but an independent member- the Minister is not physically capable of coping with all these matters. What will happen if the Minister is not capable? If honourable members read this Bill they will find that the Minister can delegate authority to members of the Public Service who, in turn, can delegate authority to private individuals. What has this to do with the concept of civil rights? We have heard much about civil rights in this House. 
Is it little wonder that the people of Darwin, that is, almost every if not every responsible body and individual, including the Women's council- the Minister for Urban and Regional Development stressed the women's side, for some reason best known to himself- have sent telegrams asking for one simple thing, namely, that the passage of this legislation be delayed three or four days until next week so that the people concerned may come to Canberra to express an opinion about certain clauses in this Bill. We could delay the passage of the legislation in this House. I would think that the Minister would be showing himself in an even better light if he were to take the initiative in this matter and were to prevent this Bill from being finally passed through all its stages. The third reading of the Bill could be postponed until these people had come to Canberra and, in an ordinary democratic manner, had expressed their point of view. The Government may be assured that we will not propose amendments to the Bill in this House, but they will be proposed in another place. The Opposition does not intend to obstruct the passage of this legislation, but it would like to give the people who will be affected by this legislation an opportunity to express an opinion in a matter which involves them more than anyone else. 
It is notable, with the exception of 3 Ministers who are in the House for formal reasons, that we have one member of the Opposition in the House. This is a repetition of what occurred this morning. 
-Of the Government, I beg your pardon. I am very thankful to my distinguished neighbour, the honourable member for Maranoa, for the correction. He is going to remain my neighbour despite some of the peculiar suggestions which have been made in regard to redistribution. Once again the House is almost empty of supporters of the Government although a debate is taking place concerning one of the two major industries in this nation which put, or used to be putting, a minimum of something like $2 billion of $3 billion into the coffers of the Treasury. Only one supporter of the Government is present in the House, apart from 3 Ministers who are present for formal reasons. I do not intend to speak for more than a few minutes on this Bill. With great clarity, based of course on the knowledge that he has of these matters, my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  has indicated that we of the Opposition have not altered our attitude to this Bill. If anything our opposition to the Bill has stiffened- and it has stiffened for a number of reasons. 
I speak with some authority when I talk about the insecurity of employment opportunities it offers. I shall not bother to talk about the feeling of insecurity of the great mining companies because, as I have said so often in this House, they are well in a position to attend to their own disabilities. Of course, if it is to be the policy of the Government to wipe them out or to put them at a disadvantage which freezes the whole of their activities a recession in the whole of the great mining industry will be inevitable. Our opposition to this Bill has stiffened not only because of the situation it has accelerated in relation to the prospects of the great mining companies but also because of its absolute dissolution of any hope that the smaller mining operations had for the future. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  throws a few thousand dollars here and a few million dollars there just to create a prototype, just to create a case to which the Government can refer occasionally in the process of acrobatics that it is now following of seizing on the Opposition's policies and presenting them as its own in a last desperate stand to try to sustain itself in office. It is no good the Minister getting up and quoting those one or two cases when the whole of the huge mining industry and the thousands of people engaged in it wonder what the future holds for them. There is one thing that those people- I mean all of them- fear. I think it is pretty well known that my list of acquaintances consists not of those to be found at the top level but those to be found down in the lower hatch, deep underground. That fear of these peoplethe ordinary working man, the miner- has been indicated very clearly in successive elections. I refer to the electorate of Kalgoorlie for instance. Fred Collard is a good bloke and everybody knows it, but he had to carry the burden of the distrust and the lack of hope that exists in the hearts of everyone associated with the mining industry in his electorate. This is intrinsically associated with what happens in regard to the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill because the whole concept is one of: 'Are we going to be nationalised? Are we going to be strangled? Are we going to be able to see at some time where the industry is going? Are we going to have some guidelines which are explicitly pronounced and exhibited or are we going to continue with the nebulous, ad hoc, day-to-day decision making for, in the greater part, political expediency?' 
I have indicated that the Opposition is going to oppose this legislation even more vigorously than it has previously. Together with my colleague the honourable member for Stirling, who preceded me in this debate, I do not know whether someone is perhaps infiltrating the Caucus room with some sort of a vapour which has brought about a sort of insanity in the Labor Party, but it has become absolutely unreasonable on certain issues. I cite as an example the absolutely unreasonable attitude adopted by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  towards the Darwin Reconstruction BUI. I was terribly disappointed that he could not withhold the passage of the BUI for a miserable three or four days until the people most affected by it could be given an opportunity to express their point of view. I do not want to talk about the Liberal and 
Country Parties winning seventeen of the nineteen seats in the election for the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and I do not want to talk about the other two being Independents. I also do not want to talk about the Australian Labor Party being completely wiped out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the honourable member should talk about this Bill and not about another BUI. 
I am pleased that you have brought me back on to the tracks,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The point I was trying to make in citing what happened to the Darwin Reconstruction BUI is that time was not allowed to the people of the Northern Territory to express their views on its provisions. About 700 or 900 telegrams were sent on this subject by aU sorts of people in Darwin. Here today we have an example of an attempt being made to force the passage of legislation concerning a matter which is before the High Court. There can be only one reason for this desperate attempt to get this BUI through the Parliament and the legislation into effect, that is, because the Minister wants to obtain further dictatorial powers. He wants to get a further stranglehold on the industry. He wants to inject into the mining industry at least the serum of nationalisation, the beginnings of it. But the people of Australia do not want that to happen. Given the chance of expressing their point of view they would show that that is the case. That is all I want to say. I could have gone through all of the clinical attention I have given to this Bill previously but I thought that there were only one or two things that had to be said. I hope I have said them. I also hope that what I have said has made an impact upon the Minister. I know that that is a pretty impossible task. No one ever gets to confer with him. He has built a barrier around himself, for obvious reasons. He has done so because he does not want to speak to intelligent people who know the mining industry. The magnificent body that we brought into existence- the Bureau of Mineral Resources- is not even a rubber stamp. It is not even brought into calculation. So we are completely opposed to the BUI. If anything our opposition has stiffened. 
-I have much pleasure in seconding the motion moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
I have some advantage in speaking on this matter because for a number of years I was a member of the Australian Labor Party at a time when it was a privilege to be a part of a party which was intensely Australian and whose loyalties were in the right position, adjusted to the betterment of this nation, to the quality of life of this nation but more particularly to democratic principles whereby individual members of that organisation had some say in matters affecting it. This position has been entirely changed. It has been stated here today by interjection that it is a voluntary organisation. Today it is a voluntary organisation up to the point when a person joins the organisation because then if the person steps out of line one of 2 things happens. He is either blackballed or some sort of insidious pressure is brought to bear on him whereby life becomes intolerable. Despite those things it is very difficult to find one ALP branch- I offer this challenge clearly and precisely to members of the Government to find one- in Australia today in which the numbers have not fallen off to a very significant degree. The reason for this is that there are pressures which are being exerted continuously on members of the ALP but they are being exerted by the elite and this elite is a small coterie which is based more particularly in certain unions and more particularly within metropolitan branches. So the rest of the organisation of the once great Austraiian Labor Party is now a pathetic, fragmented agency almost for insidious banana republic type operations. 
I would add to what the honourable member for Mackellar said that the pressures brought to bear on the Australian Labor Party are not only from within but also from without the organisation. I would say that never in the history of this nation has the name of Australia been at a lower ebb than it is at this moment. This can be checked out. If what I am saying is thought to be political prejudice then for heaven's sake check it out. I say to honourable members opposite: Write to individual citizens, write to people in diplomatic positions who are game enough to express their point of view. They will tell you that the name of Australia has never been at a lower ebb than it is today. 
The trip abroad by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  achieved precisely nothing. It merely added to the disrepute in which we stand and it is because of the undue influence which has been brought to bear on the other side of this House. I feel terribly sorry for certain people on the other side of the House who had, as I did, the privilege of membership of the old Australian Labor Party and by that I do not mean the old reactionary men. Honourable members opposite must remember the old members of their organisation who were prepared to make real sacrifices to be a member of their organisation. Until about 6 months ago everyone was on the bandwagon. It was very easy to be a member of the Australian Labor Party because it was going places. It is not going places now; it is just going and that is perfectly obvious. 
One of the things I resent is the great national operation of deceit which has been carried out on the people who are so naive as to believe that they are still supporting the Australian Labor Party which included many wonderful figures like T. J. Ryan and Ben Chifley. I can remember my predecessor for Kennedy the late Bill Riordan, a man who served this Parliament for 30 years and a member of a family that attracted nothing but a grand reputation for integrity and service to this nation, warning us as members of the Cloncurry branch of the Australian Labor Party that there were certain pressures coming into the Party which were going to fragment and destroy the substance of the Party. I can remember it as though it were happening at this moment. I can remember Ben Chifley in the City Hall in Brisbane telling a packed audience and warning members of the Australian Labor Party that if they had the slightest association with anything even on the fringe of communism, on the fringe of extreme socialism- these insidious unsavoury policies that come from these little banana republics- they were out, expelled. How would he feel if he saw the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  embracing the Vietcong. If a man kisses another man one begins to wonder about that but in this case we did not wonder about it at all; we were not even surprised. What about this smelly little tent that people have put up in front of this building with smelly little characters occupying it and offering definance of this nation? Whether one agrees with the Vietnam war, which is now a thing of the past, or not the people these characters represent shed good Australian blood and did everything in their power to destroy our young men. Those who sit on the other side of this House do not like what I am saying, yet that tent stands occupied by these miserable characters. What would be the reaction of men like Ben Chifley and Bill Riordan, or the great Clarrie Fallon, who could make or break ALP members, who could make Prime Ministers, a man with whom I had the closest association? Certainly he brought pressure to bear. He brought pressure to bear on any member of the ALP who would even rub shoulders with these insidious characters who are out to destroy everyting that is good in this country. 
It is almost superfluous for the honourable member for Mackellar to bring this matter forward because the situation is so well known to the people of Australia and it is so unacceptable to them. When they go to cast a vote they imagine that they are going to put into office a particular personality to represent them, a man who by his character and his attributes has the sorts of things to offer that they appreciate. They now know that it would not matter just what the quality of that man is. We saw casualties in the last State election in Queensland. If we are honest we will admit that some good men bit the dust up there. There are now eleven left. Lord knows how many of them will survive the next election. There are now only 1 1 seats held by the Labor Party in Queensland, traditionally a Labor State. It formerly held 33 seats. The ALP was born right in my electorate in the town of Barcaldine. I can name men who went to gaol because they stood for principles of unionism and principles of support for a Party which in those days honestly and sincerely fought for the workers. On the other side of this place there are young aristocrats, bluebloods, people who for some reason are espousing a cause in which they believe for one of 2 reasons- either they are ideological socialists, impressed by some peculiar thing in Chile, Cuba, North Vietnam or one of those countries which have ideologies commensurate with theirs, or, if one goes back into the past, they have a chip on their shoulder. They are the aristocrats. They are the blue bloods. They are members of the elite. Why would they be members of a .workers' Party? Honourable members should ask themselves that question. 
They should compare the 2 leaders, Snedden and Whitlam. I do not want to get down to personalities, but the Prime Minister of this country had the great advantage of having been born into a fine family. He has never had the problems that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had. He had to come up the hard way. He had to sell papers and deliver milk. I hope he does not mind my mentioning these things. He knew what poverty w/s. That is Bill Snedden. Who would appreciate more the problems of the working class- a person who has experienced them or one who through pure opportunism has become the leading figure in the Australian Labor Party and who is in the process of fragmenting and wrecking it to the point where anyone who had pride in the history of the Australian Labor Pary now hides his head in shame? 
So we see, as the honourable member for Mackellar has pointed out, pressure being brought to bear on individuals so that what may have been their honest intentions when they came into this House have been completely disoriented. We see the regimentation of Caucus, and the individual members in that Caucus being regimented. As I said before, the Labor Party has ways of dealing with members who do not conform. I do not like anyone who kisses and tells, but maybe one day I will write a book, or maybe I will even make a speech about it in this House on the last day I am here, and then I will run for cover, believe me. Some of the things that I could reveal about the activities of this so-called workers' party might be pf some impact on the people of this nation. That is one form of pressure being brought to bear. 
I want to stress again the fact that a far more insidious influence is being brought to bear on honourable members opposite, and that is based on one of two things: It could be based on their dedicated belief, such as that held by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in an extreme form of socialism, in an extreme form of centralism, in an extreme form of taking away from the individual his rights and centralising power in Canberra, appointing bureaucratic boards and appointing people who lack entirely any experience. We heard here today a discussion which was brought forward by the honourable member for Mackellar in relation to Miss Morosi, and no doubt we are going to hear a lot more about it. Whatever be the situation in that regard, is it not rather disconcerting to the people of Australia to find that career public servants, people with immense experience, are being ignored completely? A whole series of people- they can be named one after the other- are being brought into not just important positions in the Public Service but also positions of complete responsibility. In many cases they are being made heads of departments. This shows an utter contempt for the career public servants and people who have valuable experience and who have served a particular department for years and years. Such a person would see himself as being slighted by the fact that it has been a case of a job for one of the boys. 
Then again there is the pressure brought to bear by the faceless men, to use an old cliche. They are not quite so faceless these days. They show themselves as being the people who run this country. If there is one thing that we are determined on it is that that position will be reversed. I admire the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party who named the casualties. Believe you me, they had better start working out something for the future. They will keep their classification, but they will keep it where we think it fit that they should keep it and not be brought into some juicy, sugar-coated job. When the earlier discussion took place in regard to the possibility of there being a full scale national scandal, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer kept on saying that the honourable member for Mackellar was attacking a private citizen. What he did not say was that that private citizen - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The debate on that subject matter has concluded. We are now debating a different subject matter. 

-With due respect,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am trying to make the point that outside pressures are brought to bear on members on this side of the House. 
I do not propose to take very much time of the House. The Opposition supports the Bdi. We think the bringing into existence of the Australian Film Commission and the manner in which the 
Government accepted some of the suggestions we made is aU for the good. However, I want to make just one or two comments on the responsibilities of the Commission. I remember speaking to this BUI when it was first introduced. I think I made a comment that it was high time we gave up the double bed for the double barrel and that we had outdoor movies that were of a much more wholesome character than some of the rubbish that was being dished out to the Australian people- a feeble attempt to try to mimic the blue films that are being produced in many countries today. 
I think I drew reference to the fact that films like 'Ryan's Daughter' and 'Sound of Music' would be preferable. I speak with some authority because most of my business life was spent in the film industry. One can look through 'Box Office' or any of the industry periodicals and one Wil find that the big money spinners were not those shabby little films trying, as I said, to mimic the products of some of those countries that are on their way out with their blue films. If one wants to go forward and update on popular films that are about to be released in Australia and are presently being released we can go beyond the Ryan's Daughter'- and 'Sound cif Music' phase to 'Chinatown', 'Murder on the Orient Express' and 'Airport '75'- films that are making huge amounts of money- wholesome, decent films. 
There is a tremendous scope for film making in Australia. I think it is about time someone made a few more films because the people from the outback who are my responsibility not only as a member for Kennedy but also as shadow Minister for Northern Development are a little tired of seeing documentaries on a Sunday afternoon and of constantly seeing the type of film which may be acceptable if one has the opportunity to switch it off. That is a funny sort of statement, I suppose- productions that are acceptable if one has an opportunity to switch off. What I mean is that in our area we have one channelthe most important channel in aU of Australiaand that is the Australian Broadcasting Commission channel. I pay tribute to the Commission. On occasions I have had the opportunity to see some of the documentaries produced abroad and I would say that they are second rate compared with ours. 
I think the ABC does a magnificent job, but I think that whoever is responsible for the programming, which is inflicted continuously on people who have no alternative but to sit and look at the ABC, should think again and should provide something with entertainment value. I think of a program I watched one Sunday afternoon. No one respects the Duke of Edinburgh more than I do. I think he is a great bloke. But I am not entranced to the point where I can sit and watch him being received or being given some sort of Order in England where it takes an hour and a half to adorn him with some sort of star thing. There are other things a huie more interesting. 
I want to make one point and then I shall sit down. The film industry in Australia can do one of two things: It can go on as it has been going making such things as 'Alvin Purple' and 'Skull'. By the way, I mentioned going from the double bed to the double barrel, but in 'Alvin Purple' they did not go from the double bed; they went from some sort of water bed. So my suggestion was apparently half received. Someone went to water. As one who has had an association with the industry, I have of recent months had fairly close contact with some of the top people in the industry in Australia and they all agree that nowhere in the world is there the scope for film making- for great outdoor films- as there is in Australia. Three ingredients are essential for successful film making. Firstly, the producer must be a producer of reputation, he must be a producer who can produce a track record, if the film is going to make an impact. 
-What I am doing,  Mr Minister,  is offering some suggestions that perhaps the new Commission will take into account. At least I have had some experience in the industry. I do not know whether anyone else in this House has had any experience of that nature. 
-May I go on? I mentioned 3 necessary ingredients. It is necessary to have a producer who has a world wide reputation if the film is to make an impact internationally. I have noticed that it has been stated recently that the film ' Skull ', which is about drugs and so on, looks as though it might earn $200,000. That is petty cash in the film industry. If one is to make real money out of a film one has to have the likes of David Lean as producer. Bring him to Australia. Spend a million dollars. It would be well worth it because he would produce the first great Australian film. 
Yes. David Lean has not made many outstanding films! He has only made Ryan's Daughter',  'Dr Zhivago',  'Bridge Over the River Kwai' and so on. I think that he has amassed something like perhaps a dozen Academy Awards. If we are going to make an impact that is the number one essential. The other two or perhaps three essentials we have in abundance. We have artists capable, under his direction, of producing excellent films. We have world class talent. I am sure honourable members will agree with me when I say that in its own category Seven Little Australians' was superb. And who does not look at 'Bellbird'? I can never persuade anyone to look in my direction when ' Bellbird ' is on. 
-It is not a matter of being able to stand it as far as I am concerned. I have to work too hard in my electorate of Kennedy, which covers 253 000 square miles and which some people have some queer idea about doubling its size. Anyhow, getting back to the point I was trying to make; we have the three great essentials. We have talent, we have light and we have consistent weather. If ever there are two great enemies in budgeting for a great film they are the uncertainty the insecurity of light and weather. These can delay the making of a film, as Cleopatra' was held up- I mean the film- for sufficient time to make the film a complete financial disaster. I wish to put on record that we can take our choice of going into the big time or making such things as 'No. 96 ' and the - 
-Or 'The Box'. I am not going to discuss the matter on moral grounds. I am opposed to pictures being made in a stuffy little room with some sort of sordid background when we have the great outback to offer. Let us face it, if a person is honest about the whole thingunless he is a bit of a pervert or something like that and he has to get his kicks out of going to look at a blue movie- he will say that he enjoys a great outdoor movie. I do not precisely mean a western, although I suppose that it would naturally take precedence. 
If we are serious about building this industry into something that is worth while we must get a great producer to produce our first film. I do not care what it costs. Whatever it costs it will be worth while. Another advantage in having a man like David Lean is that not only would the film make an impact in international circles but also our own producers I am sure would admit that to serve under a man like him would give them a fantastic experience and would equip them to carry on in a similar manner. We support the Bill. 
We are grateful to the Government for accepting some of the suggestions we have made. I am sure that we will see a new era in film making for not only the cinema but also for television. 
-I propose to speak very briefly on one particular item in the appropriations. Both of my colleagues have referred to the provision of research assistants and I should like to say to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for giving us the special advantage of additional secretarial assistance, just now significant it is in an electorate such as Kennedy, Kalgoorlie and many other vast electorates. The particular problems in such electorates include a huge amount of mail and inquiries because obviously branches of government departments do not exist in such areas to handle the inquiries. I have a secretary who works at least two or three nights a week and almost every weekend. I would say to the Minister, in his presence, that this provision is probably the most substantial contribution made to the efficient operation of an electorate and to give the people, particularly in remote areas where they do not have the advantage of being able to telephone a government department, a new era of representation. It will make it infinitely easier to give them effective representation. I place on record my appreciation of what I think is probably the greatest advance made- I stress again- to efficient representation for outlying areas. 
I want to make one or two points. I have been inspired to enlarge on some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  There are 2 elements of the Family Law Bill that most interest me. On the one side I ask: How quickly or how easily can a marriage be terminated? I do not want to go over all the things that have been said about the family being the bulwark of our nation. Those who do not accept that fact are not paying very much recognition to the salient point in the life of any nation. 
I propose to support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on the basis of 2 considerations. The Bill as it stands makes marriage so much easier to dissolve. I shall have no more to say about that because thousands of words have been spoken on it in this House. But the one subject on which I would like to speak at some greater length is that of the woman involved. The honourable member for Blaxland probably summed up the general realistic situation that arises in most marriages which begin to crumble. It is usually the man who begins to play up. Let us face it. There would not be a member of this House- I will include the senators, though some of them are a little aged for that sort of caper- who would not admit that it is the male in any company who is likely to start playing around a little. That is how the situation begins to build up. I do not know that the senators come quite so close to this sort of thing, but every day every member of the House of Representatives has people coming in, more particularly women, seeking assistance. In most cases they present a story of rather stark tragedy. I do not want to get dramatic about this but it is usually a situation where a woman, usually a fairly young woman, is left with two or three children and suddenly finds that she has to do a number of things. I think the most difficult task is to try to bring into that atmosphere some compensation for the fact that the father is no longer there. I think this emotional demand on a woman is probably more critical than any other of the considerations involved. I go along with the honourable member for Blaxland when he, using the more accepted term, referred to the playboy aspect of this matter. 
I think every desperate attempt should be made to maintain the family unit. This brings one back inevitably to the woman of the house. It is strength of character, her almost third dimensional attitude towards sustaining the marriage that keeps the family operating as an identity. That is the most dramatic and important element in the whole question. In my judgment and evaluation, after listening to the debate and studying the Bill, I think that without the amendment as moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the woman would find herself in a pretty difficult situation. 
I agree with two or three speakers who today brought out the point that what is happening in the world is that some women are anxious to become identified with way-out attitudes and with some of the very strange and odd things that are happening and twisting this world beyond recognition, and that we slavishly follow other countries. We had a magnificent country with the highest possible standards and ideals until the media began extracting from some of these strange and odd countries new standards or substandards and we found many women's organisations beginning to espouse them. It is quite extraordinary and unbelievable. I cannot help but believe that they are not giving sufficient thought to trying to persuade us in this House to pass a Bill, without the necessary amendments, that would undoubtedly and inevitably affect their own womenfolk and put on them an almost unendurable agony of existence. How many women re-marry? How many women in Australia are still trying to work out how they are to sustain their children and educate them during an agonising ordeal? That one element alone should persuade any member of this House to vote for the commendable amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Stewart's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will deal with this man- the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory- later. My question,  Mr Speaker,  is directed to the Attorney-General. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that, after prolonged investigations into the effects of marihuana, a report from the World Health Organisation of the United Nations now claims that there is conclusive evidence that the habitual smoking of marihuana can cause genetic imbalance resulting in a serious effect on a young woman's- or any woman's- reproductive organs and may similarly affect a young man; particularly is there the possibility of his becoming impotent? I do not refer to the AttorneyGeneral. In addition, is he aware that this report states that there is now - 
I am asking him if he is aware of this. 
Is the Attorney-General aware that there is a possibility of cancer also resulting? In view of even the remotest possibility of this happening, will the Attorney-General now urgently allow the law to be completely enforced in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory so that those persons in possession of any quantity of any drugs will be prosecuted and young people will thereby be protected against their own weakness and their exploitation by criminal drug pushers? Will he step up law enforcement activities so that he may have arrested, and put away, the lowest form of animal life, the pushers? Will he take steps to have the law revised whereby the murderous activities of  'Mr Big',  who sits in the shadows, the recipient of huge profits - 
Will the Attorney-General apply the same penalties to the wholesale distributor of drugs as applies to a convicted murderer? 
-Before commencing my speech I shall refer to the remarks of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  about my not asking questons. To ask questions of any Minister in this House is a pretty futile operaton. But on occasions I have sought personal discussions with the Minister. He has meted out the same sort of remoteness and treatment to me as he has to every responsible person in the Northern Territory. He has treated them with contempt and has firmly refused any sort of consultation. I shall deal with that in a moment. My leader, with a dignity which was commendable, answered the Minister's vitriolic uncontrolled outburst. I move: 
That this House believes the Government should completely review its plans for northern Australian development believing the Government's present policies on northern development do not contribute to the prosperous growth of northern Australia. 
All aspects of policy concerning northern development and the Northern Territory must relate in a special manner to people. While we are talking of people I comment that I have visited Darwin and the Northern Territory on 5 occasions. I have driven by car to almost every remote area on 2 occasions. The remark I hear everywhere is that the people have not even sighted the Minister. The conditions under which people live, people who have incentives which attract them to areas which are comparatively remote, are in many cases unattractive climatically. They have to pay higher costs for services and commodities. The Liberal Party and Australian Country Party recognising this have closely examined the whole spectrum of life in Northern Australia and have produced policies for people and for the development of the nation's resources. 
In contrast we have seen the present Government produce policies which have almost a complete disregard for the welfare of the people in northern Australia. We have witnessed the rundown and the almost complete stagnation of the 2 major industries- mining and beef cattle. Admittedly, the sugar industry is enjoying favourable conditions. But this has been due to the splendid work of a group of united industry leaders and to the present world demand. The most essential and perhaps the scarcest commodity in the north, particularly inland, is water. The Liberal and Country parties will continue their policy of examination and analysis of the surface water courses, of recording the potential of certain streams in areas of population or projected population and development, with the final object of harnessing such river streams as the great Burdekin. In addition, it will encourage and examine the possibilities of suitable and responsible incentives to encourage similar conservation and reticulation schemes by local authorities and, under special circumstances, new developments. It will study world developments in the matter of desalination. What has the present Government initiated in this regard? The Minister for Northern Development will have to admit that with the exception of one or two projects- admittedly they are important but certainly not major projects- there has been only a token attitude towards the development of our water resources. He will, of course, refer to the limited action being taken to study the Burdekin possibilities and the further development of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. Of course, in both cases the Government is only continuing the work initiated by us when we were in government, and it is not doing very much good at that either. 
One of the most tragic results of this Government's lamentable record which relates in a special way to the whole northern frontier of this nation is its almost complete failure to develop any defence capability. I, as Army Minister, was immensely proud of the Army base at Townsville and the sound strategic value of its being in that area. Has there been any further defence contribution which would in any way at all contribute to the security of this country, to the protection of our northern frontiers? On the contrary, when we were in government we had planned an additional battalion which would have been based in Western Australia, in Townsville or in Rockhampton. That plan was scrapped. Our present organisation, if it is at full strength, is the absolute minimum required to meet any sort of emergency. We have 6 battalions. I could go on and talk of the Mirage squadrons going out of business and the non-Navy we now have. If the Government has not abandoned the defence and security of this country the least it should do would be to build up the Army to divisional strength. It should have at least thirty or forty hard hitting, highly mobile patrol boats constantly in action in northern waters. As one moves around the country and comes into contact with what is left of Army units, it is appalling to find that the morale of our Army is crumbling, and I would say that the morale of the other two branches of the Services is crumbling to the same degree. 
One industry which this Government has watched deteriorate with obvious disinterest- almost contempt- is the fishing industry. Under the Liberal-Country Party Government we saw a great wave of prosperity which stimulated the fishing industry to the most exciting point of development it had ever known. At Karumba in the Gulf country one new processing plant after another was opened up. Great refrigerated road trains travelled south with hundreds of thousands of pounds of prawns. As well as there being a great home demand, a most significant export trade was established. Now what do we see in contrast? Where previously there were 5 processing plants at Karumba, there are now only two- Mostyns and Markwells. Hundreds of fishermen have left the area. Men who had purchased boats and looked like establishing themselves permanently in that remote area have been forced to leave. The economic policies, the anti-rural attitude of this Government, resulted in the workers of the industry, the fishermen, getting so little for their catch that they were operating at a loss. Let the House and the people of Australia note that fact. One of the major factors that contributed to this decline was the withdrawal of the fuel differential subsidy. Now we see that even in this short time the price of fuel has doubled in that remote area. 
Let us now look at housing. Houses in northern Australia must be designed for conflicting conditions. They must provide comfort, strength and a minimum of maintenance in arid and high rainfall areas, such as in the tropical areas around Darwin and along the far north coast of Queensland. Strength in houses is needed because of the constant threat of cyclones from December to April. In the dry areas houses must be planned to counter the discomfort of searing heat and extreme dryness. Building materials must be chosen to withstand these conditions. In all areas suitable air conditioning should be made available at a minimum cost. That was done in my home town, and it can be done and will be done in other areas when we return to government. Because housing is so costly in remote areas of northern Australia, the Liberal and Country parties will research the latest developments in housing for similar areas throughout the world. We will examine particularly the work of such people as  Mr Marquis  Kyle of the Queensland University who has studied and become a world authority on adobe housing. People should not get the impression for a moment that adobe housing means mud huts. That phase of housing has long since passed. In Mexico there are adobe houses which are aesthetically beautiful and comfortable to live in. The object of this study will be to provide a home which can be build basically with local materials and so greatly reduce the costs which are enormously increased by high freight charges. 
Solar hot water systems are now readily available and most effective. The Liberal and Country Parties will do all that is possible to have such systems installed as standard equipment in houses in suitable climatic areas. It would be interesting if the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory would present to this House a record of the Government's achievements in providing anything near the number of houses required for northern Australia, and particularly for the Northern Territory. It is true that the Government initiated a housing scheme for Tennant Creek 10 minutes before the election, thinking that it might hold that Labor stronghold. Everyone knows the story there. That particular member went with the rest of them. Let the Minister for Housing indicate any real effort made either by him or by the Minister for Northern Development, or by anyone else in the Government, to provide suitably constructed houses for tropical conditions, and particularly constructions designed to resist cyclonic winds. I am speaking of the period prior to the disaster which occurred on Christmas eve. I would like to know what real interest the Government took prior to that cyclone in providing suitable housing. 
When I was in the United States recently I made it my business to look into such constructions. The Americans call them anti-hurricane constructions. Two interesting facts emerged. One can get out of it rather cheaply by putting a concrete room, an anti-cyclone room, in one's house. I believe that in the United States that would cost about $600. Alternatively one could go into something far more spectacular. One could build a house which has horizontal steel beams and is strapped down by a concrete arch through which runs a steel rope. In other words the whole house is strapped down. But it is very costly to do that. 
I shall now deal with roads. The Liberal and Country parties made an historic and immeasurable contribution to transport and communications in Australia when they introduced their beef roads policy. They pressed ahead with the construction of thousands of miles of road under that scheme. In addition we accepted and approved a recommendation in 1972 that a policy for the construction of national highways be examined and accepted. The acceptance by the ministry of that proposal was in all cases designed to establish top class roads to the north and to establish permanent arterial roads and major highways to the southern capitals. I want to make one point here: Our parties acknowledged the danger of such schemes absorbing available funds to such a degree that feeder and development roads, particularly in northern Australia, could well suffer, and cause the local government authorities to gasp for financial breath as regards their road building. Funds for such roads will be carefully set aside when we are returned to government so that that does not happen. 
We have a current situation at Newcastle Waters in which the main arterial link is cut. It has been cut for some days and will remain cut for some weeks, I believe. It will be interesting to hear the Minister for Northern Development make some comment on that matter when he replies. Perhaps he can tell us what is being done to find some permanent solution to the problems associated with that particular section of the Stuart Highway. Special attention should be given- I suppose that it has been given to a degree- to completing the sealing of the Stuart Highway so that as soon as possible all-weather road communications can be made available between Darwin and Adelaide. 
It is here that I particularly indict the Minister. He has made every conceivable excuse, and ever since he has been in Government he has sidestepped the issue of the completion of the section of road between Winton and Boulia. May I inform the House and the people of this country that that is the missing link in road communications from Darwin south as far as one wants to go. One of the biggest disappointments of the people of northern Australia is the failure of this Government to complete the beef roads program and particularly that section to which I have referred. If that section had been sealed during the great 1974 floods, urgently required supplies for Mount Isa and the Northern Territory- this huge area- would have been available much sooner. There has been no progress on the sealing of the long remaining extremely bad sections of the Landsborough Highway, another vital and critical link. Many other roads, which will not be anywhere near the proposed route of the national highways and which have been the subject of constant representations to the Minister for Northern Development- for example, the Charters Towers-Clermont road- are receiving no consideration. The Minister is a side-stepper of the highest order. He would make a tremendous back line footballer. 
In regard to the beef cattle industry and any sort of representations made to him he side-steps the issue. He has never taken a stand as my Leader and  Deputy  Leader did in the bad days when we were fighting for a wool subsidy. He has never stood up to his Cabinet, because his heart is not with the people; his heart is with retaining his portfolio. As I once said, he has front seat compulsion. If he has put up a fight with his Cabinet, let him come out and declare this. Why do he and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  whom he represents in this House not both come out and explain what is actually happening with Cabinet in relation to their emasculated efforts? 
Let me refer now to the Port of Darwin. I give it the name 'Port' for want of a better description for the deplorable and lamentable installation up there which is so vital and critical for the people of the Northern Territory. Promises have been made but nothing of any significance has been done in rebuilding, or building, the port. Even before the cyclone the facilities were deplorable. It is a world disgrace that the gateway to Australia should be provided with such inadequate port facilities. I speak with some authority on this matter because I was a member of the Townsville Harbour Board for 10 years. In circles where this matter was discussed I am afraid that the Port of Darwin was discussed in a very bad light. 
I turn now briefly to education. The overall attitude of the Opposition Parties- it should be the overall attitude of the Government- is to establish standards of education in the Northern Territory comparable at each level with those similarly offering anywhere else in Australia. Taxation deductions must be given on the basis of compensating parents for the obvious financial disabilities suffered in regard to clothing, accommodation, travel and other matters involved with the education of their children. For instance, the education tax allowance of $400 should immediately be restored. There should be specialised training in mining, animal husbandry and farming techniques so that we can keep these young people interested in these things and keep them in the area. The resources policy of the Opposition sets out our Parties ' planning and attitudes not only to restore confidence in the mining industry but also to introduce new initiatives to meet world supply and market fluctuations, as many of Australia's greatest mining operations are in northern Australia and the Northern Territory. Special consideration will be given under a Liberal-Country Party Government to the small miners- the gouger and the small operator- who collectively, with encouragement, could play a most significant role in the industry if provided with reasonable incentives and Government assistance. This Government has ignored these people and treated them with contempt. I can name many of them who have approached the Government for some assistance and have just been ignored. 
The Australian Labor Party has crippled the once great mining industry. Nowhere is this more evident than in the Northern Territory. If I seem unreasonably unkind, honourable members can check out the facts in the Territory and in the north west of Queensland, seek information at all levels in any mining centre in Australia, and they will find a bitterness against the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  a man obviously possessed by a paranoiac class hatred. He must be indicted for having cost the nation many millions of dollars. Again and again he covers up his rampage of destruction by honey sweet statements about preventing the rape of our resources. This bitter old man making his last hurrah in politics is mutilating and violating every decent characteristic of freedom and free enterprise which this nation and its people have cherished. 
Research over recent years has proved the tremendous capacity for the grazing and agricultural industry in northern Australia. Any hope for the future has been stifled by the recommendations of the Coombs report. I would like to mention many matters- I am sure that they will be mentioned by subsequent speakers- but time is running away from me. There were many recommendations made by  Dr Coombs.  I believe that more are yet to come. Some of them will perhaps be even more disastrous than those which have crippled the people on the land, thousands of small businessmen, thousands of small contractors and the thousands of workers dependent on those industries. This Governmentthe workers' friend- has people in the back blocks of Australia queuing up for relief because the Government has crippled the industries on which these people depend. 
Let me reiterate before I conclude my remarks that the Minister for Northern Development is unapproachable. He will not consult or confer with any responsible person in the Northern Territory. He treats them with contempt. It is high time he went around the area. Never mind talking about me; let him get into a motor car and rough it, as I have done around the Northern Territory since I became shadow Minister. 
In conclusion let me say that the Opposition Parties acknowledge that northern Australia is a great treasure house of natural resources. We see a great stage set for planned population centres. We see magnificent scope for unique cultural activities and great natural attributes. We see our Aboriginal people consulting with us as equals. We realise that the keynote of all these activities is a close liaison- a liaison which does not exist with this Minister- with those who have spent a lifetime in these areas and who know the answers. We are determined that Government will be brought to the north and the Northern Territory, not taken away from it and centred here in Canberra as this Government is so cruelly and maliciously doing. We respect the dignity and right of every individual- in northern Australia and the Northern Territory to decide his own destiny and that of his own great land. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-One or two points have to be projected a little further than they have been. I was rather surprised by the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in view of the fact that there has been such public outcry through the media and in view of the demonstrations in the streets- I think that perhaps some of them were unjustified- against the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  If his authority is so' extensive at the moment and if the authority of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is so powerful, then why is it necessary to introduce additional measures? If the industry itself is disturbed by actions that have been taken by the Minister under what the Government will no doubt allege is limited power now, then how much more dangerous would it be if additional powers were given to the Minister or to those designated by him? 
Tonight mention has been made of bias. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back over the last few weeks to some of the contributions by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in particular. The ABC news tonight was quite interesting. Maybe it could be suggested that I am getting off the track, but one of the intentions of this Bill is to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are presented by the licencees of commercial broadcasting and television stations. I should imagine that the Government would be inclined to clean up its own house first. Do not get me wrong. No one has paid greater tribute to the Australian Broadcasting Commission than I have. I admire particularly the quality of its documentaries and some of the movies such as 'Seven Little Aus.tralians' that it has produced specifically for television. Who does not watch 'Bellbird'? These are quite magnificent contributions, but I am afraid that a clearly discernible bias is beginning to show through, particularly in the coverage of recent events in Vietnam. The 7 o'clock news on the ABC tonight was pathetic. It showed a film of the absolute delight of people and little children under the new order at Da Nang, prancing around and dancing. Everyone was very happy. One would imagine that it was Christmas Day, Easter and every wedding anniversary aU rolled up into one. It was the greatest stage-set contribution one would ever see in a lifetime. If it had not been so deadly serious one would have been highly amused. It showed an American, but his accent did not seem to be American. It could have been a Baltic accent. The whole thing was obviously stage-set. 
If extra controls are to be brought into being and if they are to take over the destinies of the commercial broadcasting and television stations, let us look at that superb organisation, the ABC. It is a pity that the tone of that great organisation is not set by people such as James Dibble, Ross Symonds and Richard Carleton- men of the highest quality. I often wonder how they feel when they have to read some of the news reports which in recent times have been so markedly biased. It is no good Professor Downing washing his hands like Pontius Pilate and saying that he is not responsible. He is the  Chairman  of the Aus.tralian Broadcasting Commission, and he and his commissioners are responsible for whatever emanates from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is high time that they were at least a little fair. Anyone who saw the news tonight must have been very interested in the corruption of the South Vietnamese and the almost brutality of the Americans. It was the same old line. It is no wonder that Nixon- I do not mean  President  Nixon; I mean a much more eminent figure, Peter Nixon- was disturbed and expressed himself so forcibly. 
My distinguished colleague who appears to have disappeared, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  drew attention some minutes ago to the the quality of television in our part of Queensland. It is not so much the quality that worries me; it is the fact that in so many areas there is no television. If honourable members opposite want to have these extra controls, they should begin to give greater consideration to the many thousands of people who are deprived of this amenity. Television is almost an accepted part of everyday life. These people, who are scattered throughout the length and breadth of Australia sustain industries that are really bringing in the wealth that keeps places such as this going and pays the salaries of members of Parliament- little though they be. The 
Government should start thinking seriously about these people, not writing the same old letters back to us time and again. 
I hope that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  will pass that message on to his colleague in the other House, the Minister for the Media, who in most matters is a fair and reasonable man. Even though there are demonstrations and polls and all sorts of disastrous suggestions are made about his Ministry, he is not a bad fellow. I ask the Minister for Science to tell him that we want television out there. We want it in all the vacuum areas where we do not have it. 
-We did it. The honourable member knows that. 
-The present Government stopped the program; it did not continue the next phase. The honourable member will not get away with that one.  His  Government has brought the whole matter to a standstill, as it has brought to a standstill every other industry in this country and has created hundreds of thousands of unemployed and God knows what. I would like to make just one last point. 
I thought the Minister would appreciate that. Getting back to the quality of adequate and comprehensive programs which this Bill is demanding from the commercial stations, I would point out in fairness that 'This Day Tonight' gave coverage to the thoughts of a man named Don Sewell. He was in charge of the Holy Family Orphange at Da Nang. He spoke in very explicit terms. I am being fair about this. I am creating a balance because I have told the House how the magnificent picture of the communistdominated city of Da Nang was presented. It showed that everyone there at the moment is very happy. I would like it to have shown the refugees retreating to the north. But they were heading south. I would like to know how all these people in Da Nang become so contented in a matter of four of five days- perhaps a week. In fairness, 'This Day Tonight' gave a very good coverage to  Mr Don  Sewell who explained that the communist occupation of Da Nang- I am still referring to the Bill- was such that the communists did not kill off all the children; they slaughtered only those from newly born babies up to children 12 months old. That program was shown after the news. 
I appeal to the Minister for Science, who represents the Minister for the Media in his House, to look into this matter and to get Professor Downing moving. All we ask for is a balance in the ABC news. I have kept my contract with the House. For obvious reasons, the OPPOS.non opposes this Bill. If this lack of control and this obvious bias are evident at this stage, how much more evident would they be if we had a board which was dominated and controlled by this Government. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I address my question to the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory. In view of the discontent and disillusionment of the people of Darwin at all levels- a feeling that is reaching crisis point and constantly being expressed through the' honourable member for the Northern Territory and myself- will the Minister inform the House why the rebuilding of the residential areas of Darwin is making little progress? How does the Minister regard the suggestion made on the 'AM' program this morning by an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, that the Government could be deliberately retarding the building of houses and concentrating on what - 
I second the motion with great enthusiasm and wish to make some comments. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has gone into the matter in great detail and my hope is that this Bill will be the climax of a long, effective and sincere crusade that he has carried out to have this right given to the people of the Northern Territory. It seems that it took two devastating events, each almost complete in its destruction, to bring focus on to the people of Darwin and the Northern Territory. The , first event occurred on 19 October 1974 when an election for the first fully elected Legislative Assembly was held. That was certainly a complete devastation because of the 1 9 seats, 1 7 were won by the Country-Liberal Party and two by Independents. Probably equally destructive in a far more tragic manner was Cyclone Tracy. It took these 2 events to make people realise that there were in that very important area of this nation people who were carrying out activities which were in every way valuable to the progress and development of Australia. Matters that could be put to a referendum are of the most profound concern to the people of the Northern Territory. One such matter could be amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act in support of the principle of one vote one value. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of General Business Notices of Motion Nos 4 to 10 be extended. 
I thank the Leader of the House. I shall not be more than a few minutes. I was pointing out that matters which could be put to referenda are of the utmost, profound and fundamental importance to the people in the Northern Territory. I was speaking of the possibility of a change to the electoral system. It is difficult to live in remote areas and have your case heard effectively and consistently. The people of the Northern Territory are fortunate in this regard because they are represented in the Parliament by a man of the Territory, who grew up with the Territory and who has been associated with it in the most profound aspects of pioneering and realistic experience, and that is what really matters. People who live in remote areas such as the Northern Territory go there only for one or two reasons. They have to live under climatic conditions which are not normally acceptable. They remove themselves willingly from the amenities of the intensely populated areas. If we examine the spectrum of population in an area such as the Northern Territory, we find that they do so to contribute to the wealth of this nation. 
If we look at the Territory with interest- not too many people do that- we realise that there is a huge potential in the mining industry. Regrettably, I have to use the word 'potential' because not one sod of earth has been uncovered to release the wealth of uranium deposits in the Territory, and the prospects of this happening in the near future are extremely remote. The huge pastoral industry of the Territory, despite the claims of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  is waning to a much greater degree than it should be because of their failure to take a stand in Cabinet and demand, just as a starter, that many of the measures discontinued in compliance with the recommendations of the Coombs Task Force be reintroduced. These measures include the petroleum differential subsidy. These Ministers accepted the elimination of these measures, and in a time of almost complete disaster in the beef cattle industry have allowed their absence to persist. 
These are the reasons that the Bill presented by the honourable member for the Northern Territory time and again and his insistence that the people of the Northern Territory be given a voice in a referendum are extremely, critically, important not only to the people of the Territory but also to the people of this nation, because fundamental matters are at stake- such matters as the export of uranium and changes to the electoral system. A referendum regarding Aborigines was passed with a huge and overwhelming majority by the nation. Aborigines constitute a very great part of the voice of the Northern Territory. Let us be honest and realistic. If we feel that they should have a voice, that voice should be continued through to a voice in a referendum, should it be held. 
I could go on. There are many arguments that could be exposed and used to support this Bill, but I think the honourable member for the Northern Territory time and again has presented evidence to this House in support of these arguments. All I can do is support him entirely and join him in his continued campaign, which I hope will not be necessary in the future. I end my contribution as I began it. I hope that today we see the beginnings of the fulfilment of the hopes of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The people of the Northern Territory, the people of northern Australia and the people of all of Australia who have any sense of balance would see that it is obvious that the right to have a vote in any referendum held in this country should be given to the people of the Northern Territory. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
I want to make one or two comments and it might be suitable to make them at this stage because the clause suggests a delegation of authority. I should like to make reference to the  deputy  ombudsmen, particularly the one who will be operating in the Northern Territory. I suppose we people who hold parliamentary office or public office in areas as remote as the Northern Territory are in ourselves sort of ombudsmen. Through you,  Mr Chairman,  I direct my remarks to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  Could the  Deputy  Ombudsman for the Northern Territorywhen we get down to the greater detail of this office- have his authority extended to other parts of adjacent areas of northern Australia? There will be a major ombudsman and two  deputy  ombudsmen, one in the Northern Territory and one in the Australian Capital Territory. Could the organisation be such that the delegation of authority could go across the frontier part of the nation, in other words, the northern areas of Western Australia? For instance, there are matters affecting Aborigines and there are domestic matters which come within an area somewhere in between the authority of the member of Parliament or the official statutory authority and the ombudsman. An ombudsman would not adjudicate but he would advise. People who have spent their entire lives in the remote areas are much more comfortable going to a man who has the office of an ombudsman. I shall conclude on this note: There is an even greater need to select a suitable person to be a  deputy  ombudsman. We might not look for the blue blooded status of some great identity but we would want someone with a particularly compassionate understanding of people who live and have been bred in that part of the world. We are a race apart. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-May I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for recognising that there has not been one  speaker  from the National Country Party of Australia up to this moment. He at least apparently has a sense of democracy. Some 12 months ago I had the rather unenviable experience of being suspended from this House because I happened to point up to the coat of arms above the Speaker's chair and suggest that the Government should take it down and put up a great red swastika. Admittedly that was not a particularly commendable action, but it appears to me that the cause of my offering that commentthat was the dictatorial attitude that has come into the Australian Labor Party- is very much in evidence in the Bill we are debating at the present time. I would say that this message is getting through loud and clear to the Australian people. 
Australia generally, over the whole spectrum of political loyalties, until a few years ago was predominantly what we propose to call Labor aligned. The slide in the popularity of the Labor Party recently has been dramatic. The last gallup poll released showed that the Labor Party was attracting only 35 per cent support throughout the length and breadth of this nation, while the Opposition Parties were attracting 57 per cent support. Is anyone going to suggest for a moment that people who make up the 20 per cent lost to the Labor Party have suddenly and dramatically abandoned their working class principles? Not for one moment. On reflection, and intelligently following what is happening in this chamber and in the other place, they are beginning to detect that the present Labor Party is no longer the Labor Party to which they paid allegiance. If they had any doubts about the dictatorial attitude of the Labor Party they would do well to examine this Bill. 
We have heard the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  say that the Party to which honourable members opposite belong is not ashamed to reveal the funds that have been made available to it. Then why in heaven 's name did it not tell us about the $74,000 that Rupert Murdoch made available to it? Has anyone in this House ever suggested that the Labor Party received that $74,000? Why does it not disclose the deal that it came to with Kenneth Myer? There was no secret about all this. Kenneth Myer openly supported the Labor Party. Does it make sense that a multi-millionaire should support a party that was supposedly concerned with the underprivileged and the workers? What about all the great businessmen who signed that full page advertisement that appeared in the newspapers before the 1972 election, who courageously declared that there should be a change, that there would be a new order, that we would see the business world suddenly brought to life! Suddenly brought to life indeed! It is a corpse, and this Budget has put it further in its grave. 
I am speaking in this debate purely because I feel that the claims made by the Labor Party, particularly those about the National Country Party and the great funds we supposedly receive from the multinational companies, are a joke. As a matter of fact, I had cause recently overseas to have a discussion with a member of one of these multinationals in regard to something happening in my own area. He gave me a little glass paperweight and said: 'Be very careful now. Whatever you do, don't tell the Labor Party about this or you may be accused of receiving some sort of remuneration'. Quite honestly, I did not know whether I should accept the paperweight or not. It was not worth the $25,000 that each of us was supposed to have received. So this nonsense goes on. 
There has been a lot of discussion here today which has stressed the fact that unions levy themselves to provide funds for the Australian Labor Party. This is common knowledge. I do not know why the Minister for Housing and Construction became so disturbed about all this because he knows the facts as well as I do. I have a particular advantage in this matter because I have been on the executive of 3 unions. I have attended a Trades and Labour congress as a fully accredited delegate and so I have had some opportunity, because I was a very dedicated member of the Australian Labor Party when it was the genuine Labor Party, of knowing something of what occurs in these matters. I will not deal with that now, but some day I am going to kiss and tell. Do honourable members know the story about kiss and tell? The time for that has not arrived but, sufficiently provoked, one day I may give one of the people in the Press Gallery a story he will probably use. It could be very interesting. But this I can say: There is an illusion on the part of honourable members opposite that the heavens opened up and God came down and said: 'Unless you have "ALP" after your name you could not possibly be concerned with the underprivileged, people who are in need. You just are not concerned'. Of course He did not say that. I know He did not say that. When I went over to Singapore in the Concorde I looked out the window when we were at 60 000 feet and He was not there, but I did communicate with Him, and He did not say this at all. 
The point I want to bring out is that the whole of this concept that the union movement and unionists are dedicated Labor people is the greatest farce of all time. Let me tell honourable members why. Recently in my own city of Mount Isa we held a rally to change the name of my Party. 
-It seems that there is a great and urgent desire to change the whole of the structure, the environment and the thinking in regard to an Army which only some few years ago General Westmoreland- an American general, by the way, and that is of some significance; they do not throw out their praise very freely- described as the most magnificent of its kind in the world. So there could not have been too much wrong with the way things were being done in Australia. 
-Being a modest man I do not want to make any further comment in that direction. Many factors have contributed to the decline of the defence capacity of this nation. The most fundamental, of course, is the political philosophy of the Labor Government which relegates defence to a priority so low that if the people on the other side of the House were frankly prepared to admit it, they would say that they are not seriously concerned with the defence and security of Australia. The result has been a rapid and tragic decline in the quality of our 3 armed Services. The resignation rate amongst officers has reduced our expertise to a critical degree. In less than 3 years more than 600 officers have resigned from the Army. In these times of sophisticated weaponry- new generation warfarethis is the sort of loss we cannot afford. The actual officer resignations from the 3 armed Services between December 1972 and June 1975 have been: Army 601; Navy 184; Royal Australian Air Force 468. In other words, lost to us were 1253 officers. Apart from the general attitude of this radically socialist Government towards defence, the most significant specific move it has made is its acceptance of what may be termed the Tange concept. The ambition of  Sir Arthur  Tange- in my opinion it has been his ambition for many years- is to have the Service chiefs and their responsibilities subjugated to civilian control. Admittedly the new approach has certain advantages. There was some wastage in resources and expertise with the independent operations of each of the armed forces- Navy, Army and Air Force. But did this justify the drastic reorganisation such as set out in the Tange report? 
Let us examine the reaction of some of those most qualified to comment. I shall quote quite considerably. I refer firstly to the former Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice-Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek. 
He criticised the abolition of single Service ministries in the newly integrated Department of Defence structure as inadequate to advise the Cabinet in major defence procurement matters. After all, procurement to the Navy, is its lifeblood. In a paper prepared for the Navy League of Australia,  Sir Richard  is critical of the naval policies of the present Government and particularly of its acceptance of the 15-year non threat strategic assessment. I think this is just a perfect classical example of the amateurs at work. They say: 'We will not have a war for 15 years. We will not have a threat for 15 years. If you see something looming on the horizon you are nuts. It has to be some sort of an illusion because a Minister has decreed that there will be no threat for 15 years'. Citing the Government's decisions on the now scrapped DDL project, the fast combat support ship and an apparently different role for maritime air surveillance, Admiral Peek believes that Cabinet has not been able adequately to discuss this matter. Obviously it would not be adequately equipped to discuss such a matter. He said: 
I believe that there is a requirement for a Minister who has had time to read all the papers and to discuss with the experts the details of the project to be available to Cabinet and Caucus. 
What Minister, whether he be a specific Minister for the Army, Navy or Air Force, would be able to do this? A single Minister for Defence, no matter competent, dedicated and hard working, has not the time to do these things. 

 Dr Tom Millar has been mentioned here tonight. I am at a loss to know why the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  referred to him. If there is one expert that the Government supporters should not quote it is  Dr Tom  Millar. For those who do not know who  Dr Tom  Millar is, let me just give them some indication as to his status, his capacity to be able to speak with authority on these matters. He is Professorial Fellow in International Relations at the Australian National University, Director of the Australian Institute of International Affairs- I could go on and on. What does he say? 
Shortly before he resigned his Cabinet post and parliamentary seat recently, the Minister for Defence,  Mr Lance  Barnard, introduced a Bill in the House of Representatives designed to re-organise the Department of Defence, the 3 former service departments (Navy, Army and Air), plus elements of the old Depanment of Supply, into a single Defence Department. 
When that happened I looked at Lance Barnard and thought: 'This man has been given some God-given capacity to handle an impossible task'. Maybe he just did not have, that capacity because we know what has happened to the 
Army, Navy and Air Force. He had his advisers but he had to go to a government which was unsympathetic towards the defence question generally. Hence we have this fragmentation, this integration and this sad almost ending to what was once a magnificent defence force.  Dr Millar  continued: 
This follows the recommendations of  Sir Arthur  Tange, Secretary of the Department, in the report he submitted to  Mr Barnard  in November 1973. 
The Bill will be proceeded with . . . 
That is the name of the game tonight-  and, subject to the attitude adopted by the Senate, will presumably become law, during the Budget session of Parliament. 
The point about it is, of course, as my colleague and splendid friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who is our shadow Minister for Defence has pointed out, that an attempt was made to present us with a complete fait accompli, but fortunately we were just able to stop it somewhere along the line. Steps have been taken which it will be difficult to reverse.  Dr Millar  continues: 

 Mr Barnard understandably saw the re organisation as a climax to the improvements in defence he had sought to introduce during his 2V4 years as Minister. 
Here is a nice little paragraph: 
It would be pleasant to agree with so decent and hard working a Minister, acting on what he felt was the best advice available. 
I know some of the people who advised the Minister. They were the same people who advised me. Among them are people for whom I have the very highest and the most extreme respect. I am speaking of those involved on the civilian side. I know they acted with the best goodwill in the world but they, perhaps like  Sir Arthur  Tange, had a target to achieve and they attempted to do just that. The article by  Dr Millar  states further: 
I have regretfully come to believe that despite the greatly increased service input into the Defence Department, the proposed re-organisation is a mistake of unprecedented magnitude- far beyond that of the short-lived pentropic division and with far greater implications for the defence and security of Australia . . . 
For the first time in Australian history the Minister for Defence is given statutory authority for 'general control and administration of the Defence Force' (i.e. of the 3 services). He ceases to be a member of the Naval Board and the Military Board, which with the Air Board are to be abolished and their powers redistributed. The powers of service chiefs - 
I ask honourable members to listen to this-  are exercised subject to . . . 
I ask honourable members who regard as important the freedom of decision of any particular government service to listen to this. This refers to someone who has the responsibility of defending this nation and who has the responsibility of making sure that everything is just right for the security of this nation. I shall repeat the words I quoted: 
The powers of service chiefs are exercised subject to 'any directions of the Minister'. Within the limits of legality, this is a proper requirement. 
I must answer this question. I want my answer to appear in Hansard. Is the Minister going to suggest that the previous arrangement was such that the Chiefs of Staff would have to seek the direction of the Minister? This is unthinkable and the Minister well knows it.  Dr Millar  states further: 
In paragraph eight, the Minister said . . . 
The Minister will have his opportunity in a moment.  Dr Millar  stated: 
In paragraph eight, the Minister said that the Act would give the CDFS and the three chiefs of staff 'right of access to the Minister in respect of their responsibilities' . . . 
That is a pretty grand concession. The Chiefs of Staff would have right of access to the Minister. I am sure this would give them the right of access to the military genius of the world, the embodiment of brilliant tactical skill and all that goes with it. The article continues: 
As shown above, the Bill states that a function of each of these four officers is 'to advise the Minister, in such manner as the Minister directs'. The Minister could direct that such advice shall be rendered through his private secretary . . . 
Here is a beauty! The Minister will delegate his authority if necessary through his private secretary. I do not know who the private secretary to the Minister is at the present time. Previous private secretaries have been very fine people indeed but their planning of some sort of strategic defence or attack could be a little questionable. I should like to talk for a moment about principles.  Dr Millar  states: 
The draft legislation and the Minister's speech give strong grounds for believing that the Bill is a giant step along the road to public service control of the armed forces. 
Surprise! Surprise! 
The fact that this trend has been going on for some years does not validate the concept or indeed some of the earlier changes in the same direction. 
No one in the armed forces would question the principle of civil control, but under the Westminster system we have adopted this means control by a civilian Parliament and ministry, not by the Public Service. 
In other words, one of the major objections that we have on this side of the House is that once again- this pattern has emerged in the legislation setting up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and in other recent legislation introduced by the Government- giant steps are being made to give a Minister supreme control. This is the socialist concept of centralised control. When applied to our armed forces, it is a dangerous situation. The Minister today might be acceptable but the Minister tomorrow may have gone further left. After all, the Government is moving pretty rapidly in that direction. The Government has come to a halt at the present time because it is afraid that the people of Australia have woken up to their little escapades. That is one of the precise dangers. The Government is attempting to centralise power in the hands of one man. This is decisively and drastically dangerous in the hands of this Government. 
I propose to conclude by pointing to some of the difficulties which inevitably must occur if we are to take the complete concept of the Tange report. If we are to follow it through slavishly then let me point to some of the difficulties which must inevitably emerge. First, it is basic to policy, whether it be defence policy or any other national POliCY such as transportation policy, that it be made by the Government on the advice of the appropriate Minister. This BUI, together with the Tange report, over-emphasises the role of the Secretary as a defence policy maker. I ask honourable members to absorb that. Second, armed forces are designed and exist for military operations. It is only in the general implementation of POliCY that they should expect to be under the control of a civilian hierarchy. Third, military strategy is about the planning for operations, movement and deployment of military forces. It is not the province of amateurs. Fourth, defence policy advice and analyses related to grand strategy are a joint civil and military task ranging over a whole spectrum of issues, international, economic and military. 
Fifth- this is an important point- intelligence is primarily related to enemy intentions and capabilities together with the gathering of information for the benefit of the armed Services in countering enemy forces. Sixth, general financial administration- including programming and budgeting- is a civilian matter but must be based upon high level military advice and expertise. Seventh, the development of armed forces depends upon policy, military intelligence and proposed operational plans. It is a professional military matter. It should remain primarily in the hands of those equipped to handle it. Eighth, logistics must always form part of an integrated military plan. There is no way in which responsi.bility for this vital function can be put under a control separate from the overall military commander and made to work. Ninth, the administration of armed forces personnel in their capacities as soldiers, sailors and airmen is a skilled military task. An impersonal civilian approach could lead to untold problems of morale. It could and it has led not only to untold problems of morale but also, to a very great extent, to a complete collapse of morale. I say to honourable members in this House that it is with a great deal of pleasure that I vigorously support the amendment as moved by our shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable for Moreton. 
-My comments will be quite brief. As the Opposition shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  has pointed out, we do not oppose this Bill at all. In fact we will be delighted to see it at least pass through this House because in effect the concept of a defence force Ombudsman was accepted quite some time ago. I share the pleasure of the honourable member for Moreton, that the appointment of the Defence Force Ombudsman will in no way affect the discipline that is an integral and critical part of the forces. Discipline these days is not based on the martinet attitude of a regimental sergeant-major but on understanding and mutual respect between officers and non-commissioned officers and those serving under them. It is because of this respect and understanding which inevitably grows between a good NCO and a good officer and their men that I am pleased to see that there is special mention in clause 7 of the Bill in relation to a provision that a serving member of the defence force can have a complaint dealt with by the Service authorities before submitting the matter to the Defence Force Ombudsman. The relationship which exists between an NCO and the men serving under him is of a very special nature. I would think that the average serviceman would much rather approach the Service authorities than rush off to someone who is virtually a stranger to him. So I join the honourable member for Moreton in endorsing and supporting this Bill. May it have the speediest possible passage. 
-The Prime Minister will know that within 6 days there is to be a conference here in Canberra on women in politics. Is the Prime Minister aware of the discontent among women over the organising of this convention? Is he aware that the agenda has not yet been made available? Is he aware that many women have submitted papers and have no idea whether they will be presented or when they will be presented? Is he aware that delegates, especially those from Western Australia, have been given notice only in the last 24 hours as to who can come and who cannot? Further, is the lack of organisation for this important and worthwhile conference largely due to the fact that the people who were supposed to be organising it were jaunting around overseas after the world conference on women in Mexico? Finally, I ask: If there are to be other functions such as this, will he see that they are given much closer attention than seems to have been given in this case? 
-We are informed by the Minister for Northern Australia that we are obstructing the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
The question will be asked. The honourable member should just be patient. Cyclone Tracy hit Darwin 9 months ago, but as yet there is not an embryo of a house in Darwin. My question to the Minister for Northern Australia is as follows: Is it true that the Minister knew in July of conflicts of interest between consultants to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission who were also consultants to construction companies, tendering for construction contracts to be let by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission? Why is it that up until now the Government, through the Minister, has not launched an investigation into these relationships? Will the Minister table for the information of this place the uncensored minutes of the meetings of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, and promptly please? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been grossly misrepresented by the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson).  I have visited the Northern Territory this year. I was not able to visit Darwin because of the Newcastle Waters situation. I was not able to travel on a piece of road that has been grossly neglected by this Government. I went by car and not in a VIP plane. 
I move: 
That this House condemns the failure of the Government to provide a white paper on minerals and energy policies while destroying confidence in the industries ' future. 
The subject which I want to raise is one which is not new to this House. Far from it. Last year the examiners of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development reporting on science policy in Australia criticised the Government in the strongest possible terms for its failure to spell out a satisfactory energy policy. In their report they said: 
With regard to its energy resources Australia has a privileged position in the world. The country possesses important domestic resources in coal, petrol, gas and uranium which will probably protect it over a long period from the direct repercussions of the world energy crisis. The situation does not prevent Australia from having to define a coherent policy with respect to the most rational manner of using and exploiting these resources. At the present time, however, there is no energy policy at the national level. While there is no energy policy applicable to Australia as a whole, research in the field of energy on the contrary is placed under Commonwealth responsibility within 3 bodies- the National Coal Research Committee, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, and for petroleum research the Bureau of Mineral Resources. It is also under Commonwealth initiative that important work on the use of solar energy has been developed placing Australia at the vanguard of world research in this field. 
In the period since the report was made public nothing has happened to alter the situation. I challenge the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who will be speaking in this debate, to indicate if that is not correct. The mining and oil exploration industries are more confused than ever. Who would wonder why? If one looks at the record, the same appalling facts are revealed. When we look at the mining industry throughout the whole of Australia we see stagnation, uncertainty and above all the devastating sense of insecurity. No major mining projects have been developed in the last  Vh  years, and this is the subject of another challenge I make to you,  Mr Minister.  The production which is taking place today is from mines which were developed 3, 5 or 8 years ago. We all know the causes of this stagnation in the mining industry. The overriding cause of the problems facing the mining industry is the policies of the present Federal Government, particularly the twisted ideological racial obsession and motivation of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I know that this Minister deserves most of the blame for bringing the mining industry in Australia to its present state of confusion and crisis. But the Minister is a member of a Government which has approved, even praised, all that he has done. It is that Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who must accept the ultimate responsibility for the present state of the mining industry. 
The Government's policies towards the mining industry are not simply the result of confusion and misunderstanding. The Government's policy- note this well- is one of deliberate sabotage of the mining industry. I do not say this lightly I believe that the present Government is bent on socialising this country and to achieve this it must gain control of Australia 'i greatest source of wealth- our huge mineral resources. By bringing confusion and crisis to the mining industry the Government can more easily gain control of these industries. Inflation is part of the strategy designed to drive the mining companies out of business. If favourable world prices enable the companies to stay in front special taxes will be imposed as in the case of the tax on coal, which was a classical example. The mining industry should not forget that the Government's plans to borrow $4 billion overseas in back alleys were designed to put them out of business. In the field of mineral development we can be grateful that expansion was well under way before this Government came to office, otherwise the mining scene would resemble the devastation which marks the oil exploration scene in Australia today. The statistics of oil exploration tell the story of the effects of this Government's policies. Let me refer to them. In 1972 a total of 80 000 miles of seismic line testing was carried out; in 1973 this figure dropped- not to any significant extent, of course-to 8500 miles! In 1974 it dropped to 7000 miles and this year there has been virtually none. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  will have the opportunity to refute them. The last seismic vessel operating off the coast has now left Australian waters, so seismic testing has come to a complete standstillor has some new strategy been evolved, some new technique by which we do not need seismic vessels? A similar position exists with regard to wells drilled. In 1970 121 exploration wells were drilled. In 1973 this fell to 69 wells drilled and to 55 in 1974, and in the first 6 months of this .year only 14 wells were drilled. The most disturbing aspect of Australian oil production is that we can now say with certainty that in 5 years time Australia will face its own oil crisis, and honourable members know what that means. The reason we can say this is obvious; it takes at least 5 years to bring oil into production after it is discovered. If we found more oil tomorrow- I do not know who would find it because nobody is looking for it very much- it would be 5 years before it came on stream to Australian consumers. So we are looking at a minimum of 7 years before we can produce more Australian oil. By 1982 Australia will be producing only approximately 100 million barrels of oil a year. Let that figure be refuted. Measured against an estimated consumption of 300 million barrels a year this means that we will be only 30 per cent self-sufficient in oil and that imports will cost over $2,000m a year- and that is at present prices. This is a frightening picture. 
This Government through its inaction and through its disastrous maladministration will leave this country at the mercy of foreign oil producers by 1980. Our whole economy and our national security will be placed at risk because of the necessity to meet a huge bill for the import of foreign oil. The present disastrous state of affairs is the result of the dangerous policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy designed to gain control of oil production in Australia. That is his absolute obsession. The Minister could obtain control of oil production in Australia only by forcing out those who were exploring for oil and held the most attractive leases. The withdrawal of the search subsidy, the ban on overseas investment and the statements by the Minister that there would be no increase in the price of new oil discovered in Australia were all part of a campaign to prevent further exploration. The Minister thought that he could then step in and take over the whole field himself. This dangerous design has cost Australia 3 years of oil exploration activities and the chance of discovering a major new field. The oil exploration industry has been forced out of Australia and will not return while this Government is in power. 
One of the most harmful aspects of the Government's policy on oil exploration and production is the oil pricing policy. In the next 5 years Australia 's oil production will fall dramatically. By 1980 we Will be only 40 per cent selfsufficient, given the continuation of the present expansion in consumption- and consumption will grow, as we aU know, and grow dramatically. This means that we will have to import 170 million barrels of oil a year at a cost of nearly $ 1,500m, again at today's prices. These figures are based on finding oil immediately but, as we all know, we are not even looking for oil at the moment. The folly of the oil pricing policy of the Government is that the development of fields with known reserves is being discouraged, not to say anything about looking for more oil. There are hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil which we know exist in small fields such as Moonie, Barrow Island and Bass Strait, but the cost of recovery is greater than the price such oil would fetch in Australia. The result is that we have to import Middle East oil at $9 a barrel which has to be paid out of our very valuable overseas exchange. Honourable members should relate that to a deficit of $2,600m, or if they want to work on a deficit of $700m in June they can anticipate that if taken to its extreme the deficit in 1976 will be $8,000m. If that does not terrorise the people of Australia and make them want to rid Australia of this Government I do not know what is needed. 
That is the worst proposition we could have- to use Australia's national earnings to import oil when we have oil in this country but when it is just not profitable to look for it. If, for example, we paid 39 a barrel to Australian producers the Government would obtain revenue from the taxation of profits and the costs involved in recovering that oil would be spent in Australia. If the Government cannot see the advantages of that then it is comprised of bigger dunderheads than I and the people of Australia have deemed them to be. It would also provide jobs for Australians and, my goodness, how badly are they needed. There can be no more shortsighted policy than a general refusal to raise the price of the local product, which we have. Honourable members opposite will go out now and say, as they said about the leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  that we want to raise the price of oil. That hoax is not working any longer because already under this Government people in inland parts of Australia are paying 90c a gallon for petrol, when previously they were paying something like 50c, and people in the cities are paying nearly that amount. The people know the Government's performance. Its track record is there. The Opposition is presenting a logical proposition. 
It is inevitable that the price of oil will rise to Australian consumers. The Government is forcing up the price of oil. There is no choice but to raise it because our own reserves are limited and the only alternative is to import expensive oil at $9 a barrel. The only issue involved is whether the rise occurs now or occurs gradually or occurs in 5 years time with a much greater impact. What has happened to the countries which have had to import oil at something like that price? What are they paying in Italy? In January they were paying $1.75 a gallon for petrol. In Great Britain they were paying $1.85 a gallon. I do not know what they are paying now. A sudden jump in oil prices would lead to severe dislocation in industry and throughout the whole economy. The effect of an unrealistically low domestic price would be to destroy any incentive to explore for oil in Australia. 
The Minister similarly attempted to gain control of Australia's uranium reserves by trying to force the companies which held leases into bankruptcy. He was temporarily outwitted over the Ranger deposits when it became necessary for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to come up with a plan to develop the reserves when the Japanese Prime Minister visited Australia last year. I suppose that was the beginning of the downfall of the Minister for Minerals and Energy because, as we know, he is almost a postscript now, or perhaps aU those who are guessing are wrong. However, the one spotlight was taken off the Ranger agreement and the Minister had things in his hands again. The old pattern of frustration and calculated stonewalling surfaced again. This has extremely serious consequences for Australia because there is a real possibility that we will miss the world market for uranium if we do not make contracts soon. 
I would like to turn to the policy of the alternative Government, an alternative which I hope will become a reality in the near future for the sake of Australia and for the sake of every worker in Australia. The basic pOliCY of a Liberal-National Country Party government would be to revitalise the minerals industry and encourage the development of Australia's mineral resources. Two areas which come to mind immediately where development could be given the go-ahead are coal in the Bowen basin and uranium in the Northern Territory. It is about time someone dug a shovel in somewhere in those areas. Several projects are in an advanced stage of planning and only need approval for work to commence almost at once. 
An essential part of the Liberal-National Country Party program for recommencing the development of our mineral resources would be to restore the State governments to their proper role in mineral planning and development. The Australian Minerals Council, consisting of the Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for mining, would be revived, and promptly. The Council has met only once since 1972, and then on the initiative of the New South Wales Minister for Mines. 
The most important step necessary to bring about renewed interest in mining development in Australia is to clear away some of the myths which surround the whole subject. If we are to have a strong and healthy minerals industry which is able to contribute to Australia 's national development, we must face realities and not live in a dream world, throwing out deceitful and completely misleading concepts based on foreign ideologies. These have to be swept aside. 
Let me deal with one or two of these myths. The most important factor which we must realise is that to develop our mineral resources we need the assistance of others- their capital, thenknowledge and their markets. Overseas investment in Australia is the cornerstone of this country 's economic development. Like all Aus.tralians let me make this perfectly clear, as I have made it clear from the day I offered myself for election in Kennedy- I want to see as much Australian ownership of our natural resources as possible. But we must recognise that Australia needs the experience of the overseas experts and that the benefits of the overseas investment far outweigh the disadvantages. Overseas investors provide jobs. Their investment leads to the creation of other industries, and they pay taxes. A Liberal-National Country Party government will adopt a case-by-case approach to overseas participation in the exploitation of Australia's mineral resources. We will aim at the highest practicable level of Australian ownership. Let me repeat that before honourable members opposite start screaming about - 
Yes, if you like, Utah. Let me repeat it before they start screaming about any of the overseas companies. We will aim at the highest practicable level of Australian ownership, but we Will not bring all development to a halt as the Minister for Mineral and Energy has done because Australians are not willing to put up the capital required for a project. The Minister is the greatest dog in a manger that ever existed. He knows it well his Government knows it well. and the Prime Minister knows it well. That is why he has to ease the Minister out. We do not adhere to the policy that if Australia cannot develop a resource no one else can either. That is the myth of all myths. 
The second myth that we must get away from is that the Australian people can derive greater benefit from the nation's mineral resources by the direct participation of the Australian Government in mineral development. The Liberal and National Country Parties believe that the Commonwealth Government must play a major role in encouraging the exploration for and development of Australia's minerals resources, but the Government's role is one of creating the climate in which private enterprise will be able to carry out the task of finding and recovering the nation's mineral resources. The role of the Government is to define national policies and to draw up laws for the orderly development of Australia 's natural resources. 
Another myth which surrounds the whole issue of mineral development is that we should conserve our mineral resources and leave them in the ground. Nothing could be more shortsighted or disastrous. The Liberal and National Country Parties reject the notion that by leaving the minerals in the ground they will only appreciate in value. Apart from causing severe economic dislocation to our trading partners, this approach also runs the risk of missing the market altogether as the Minister knows he has done in regard to our uranium resources. I stress one point. It is my own particular baby, if I might put it that way. The group which has suffered most from the policies of the present Government is the small producers and the small explorers. The Liberal and National Country Parties will encourage and assist the exploration and mining activities of small producers. Throughout Australia there are numerous mineral deposits which do not attract the interest of major companies but which could be made profitable by the small operator or by a small group of miners. The Liberal and National Country Parties propose to establish a small mine operators advisory panel to provide small mining operators, including those on the gem fields, with direct access to information and advice. 
I conclude by drawing the Minister's attention to an undertaking he gave in this House that he would provide me with a list of approvals which the Australian Industry Development Corporation had given in relation to the applications by small miners to gain assistance to get off the ground. He has never provided me with that.  His  secretary or whoever is responsible has sent me nebulous letters. 
-I do not propose to occupy very much time in this debate but the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who seems to appreciate some of the difficulties of people in vast electorates, cannot rid himself of or shake off the obsession he has about the National Country Party of Australia. I often wonder whether he wakes up obsessed by the National Country Party. He seems to have one great obsessed desire in life and that is to eliminate us. I wonder why. He must find us effective, or something. I would like to bring to the attention of the House some of the obvious difficulties, insurmountable in many respects, that one encounters in a vast electorate. I am surprised and I am finding it very difficult to understand how the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  could possibly, in all sincerity, support the proposed redistribution. He no doubt has the same sort of difficulties as I have, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  has, and so on. I could go on naming various electorates. I could mention the vast mileage honourable members for these electorates cover in a week. If it is of any interest to the temporary honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  I travelled 5000 to 6000 miles during the recess period which has just concluded. If the honourable member for Bowman would like to tell us what he did and where he went, we could talk about what work all honourable members have done in their electorates. The honourable member could not even find his way across Coppermine Creek without a compass and a couple of guides. If he went to the far ends of Brisbane he would not find his way back. However the honourable member will not have that problem within the next so-and-so period. 
Let us for a moment consider very briefly some of the difficulties which honourable members face in a huge electorate- and I am talking of an electorate of 253 000 square miles. Firstly, let us look at the value of an electorate, the value of the people who are in the frontiers of this country. Take away the beef cattle industry, even in its present low tempo, take away the mining industry, take away the sheep industry and take away the other industries that are in the vast electorates and this country would be flat broke without the help of the honourable members on the Government side. They have brought us to our knees. They have adopted the recommendations of the Coombs Report, detrimental to country areas. They have crucified every worker in the backblocks by making him pay the best part of $1 for a gallon of petrol. They have taken away the differential petroleum subsidy. They have tried to make the people of the inland areas and far flung areas second-rate citizens. But they will never break them. We will break honourable members opposite before they break us; let me tell them that. 
Here is the interesting thing: The Leader of the House talked about the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  Unfortunately it is as obvious as the nose on the face of each honourable member opposite- they look very glum faces these days, may I say- that that man has gone. Why has he gone? He has gone because of the introduction of these redistribution Bills and because, one by one, honourable members opposite have called the people of the inland areas galahs and kangaroos. They say we in the Country Party represent trees and cows. That does not go unnoticed. People know the Government is trying to reduce them to a status which would mean they would have no effective representation in this chamber at all. Let me say this to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh):  You come out to my electorate and electioneer next time. I invite you to come out and support my opposition. That would be even more valuable than  Senator Keeffe  moving around the electorate.  Senator Keeffe  has been the cause of my majority rising from 1000 to 1 1 500. You know you are gone at the next election too. I rather like you- you are a nice little fellow. We are going to miss you terribly, but you will be gone as sure as night follows day. 
May I get back very briefly to the sort of difficulty we have. First of all there is the matter of travelling from point A to point B. Remember, we get the same allowance as the honourable member for Bowman, who could spit across his electorate. He could get in a taxi and cover the whole of his electorate in 35 minutes provided he did not delay to go to the dogs at Capalaba. 
That is where I have seen the honourable member too. Honourable members representing rural electorates have a terrible financial penalty, quite apart from the time absorbing difficulty, in moving across such vast  electorates. Another point is that people in a vast electorate such as Kennedy or  Maronoa-  the Government proposes to join them into one electorate, yet it says this is a fair redistribution- cannot go to a telephone and ring a government department. So every darn thing they want comes to us. This is how we want it. But we also want the facilities to cope with these representations. 
I give the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  credit. He has helped country members considerably. But he has not gone anywhere near far enough. I wish that the Remuneration Tribunal would wake up that the average member of Parliament in this House does not want a salary rise because he loses most of it in taxation; but what we do want is some sort of acceptable allowance to be able to service the people in our areas in some sort of sane way so that we do not have to depend on a telephone to contact them. 
I was particularly amused by hypocritical remarks that came from those people who are temporarily occupying the Treasury benches when they talked about other countries. There is not one great country in the western group of nations which had a voting formula of one vote one value. Does the Government claim that the United States of America has always had the one vote one value concept? Of course it did not. It required a case to be taken to the United States Supreme Court and a judicial ruling. The Government would not succeed with such a case in Australia. If it thinks it would it should wait until it receives the judgment of the High Court. Even in the United Kingdom to this day there is not the concept of one vote one value under the straggling Wilson Government. It had enough common sense to give the people some sort of a voice. 
As long as the honourable members on the Opposition side of the chamber breathe, particularly in the National Country Party part of the chamber, we will resist these Bills. The Government is trying to put a cleavage between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. It sickens the Government that we have a unity at this moment that we have never seen in the past- a complete cohesion. The Government will never drive a wedge between us. It will never convince the members of the Liberal Party that what we ask for is not just. 
The final point I make is that the people in these remote areas have given their verdict. They have wiped out the Australian Labor Party in the Northern Territory. The elections for the Broken Hill Municipal Council cannot bring any joy to the honourable member for Darling  (Mr 
FitzPatrick). The Labor Party was completely wiped out at those elections. It held 1 1 seats and lost 1 1 seats. There is not one Australian Labor Party councillor on the Broken Hill Municipal Council and not one Labor Party member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We won 17 out of the 19 seats in the Legislative Assembly and the other two went to independents. The people are a wake up to the Labor Party. They will not have it on. If members of the Australian Labor Party continue to pursue the policies of the Leader of the House who is possessed with a vitriolic hatred of country people they will go the same way as the defeated candidates in the Northern Territory. This is a diabolical BUI. We will throw it out time and again as long as we are able to do so. 
I notice from the Estimates that the total to be allocated for expenditure in Northern Australia is $51,194,000. 1 think that is about as inadequate as the 10 minutes one is permitted to try to expose and project - 
I have your own figures here. 
You get your officers to revise the summary of the Department of Northern Australia. May I make the most of the 10 minutes and overlook the interjection by the Minister. People think of northern Australia in terms of a strip of land along the coast of north Queensland and the Northern Territory. It is not; it is a vast treasure house. If the production of that part of Australia were taken away this country would be brought to its knees financially. The treatment which northern Australia gets is completely inadequate in comparison with its needs. If one were to calculate production per head of population in northern Australia one would appreciate how valuable the people of northern Australia are to this nation. They are people who suffer, particularly as you go further north and further west, unfriendly climatic conditions to say the least. However people do not go to these areas, as some would have it, to be confined to some sort of desert island or suffer some sort of second rate treatment by the rest of Australia. They are usually strategic people associated with the great industries in that area. 
One of the industries most prominent in the area for which the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  has responsibility and on which I as shadow Minister have to keep an eye is the beef cattle industry. I consider that no real attempt has been made yet by the Minister for Northern Australia or the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  to take a stand in Cabinet on the problems of the beef industry. I would like to see them take a stand as 2 Country Party Ministers did when the subsidy on wool was at stake. In the Cabinet room they had to fight their own Cabinet for the survival of that industry which produces the best part of $1 billion and which every newspaper in the country said should be written off. These 2 young men, when John McEwen was away, took their stand in the Cabinet and fought their own Cabinet on an issue that was of vital importance to this country. I challenge the Minister for Northern Australia and I challenge his associate,  Senator Wriedt,  to say when they have taken such a stand and to name any substantial concession they have secured for the beef cattle industry. 
Another matter which is of critical importance, particularly to the Northern Territory, is the sealing of one section of beef road. I give credit to the Minister that when he was an officer of the Department of Primary Industry one of his priorities, I believe, was the completion of the sealing of the road between Winton and Boulia. The section is some 60 miles long and is the missing link in any normal wet; never mind about the possibility of the floods we had the year before last. Had that section of road been sealed at that time immense worry and difficulties would have been avoided. Yet I was informed by the Minister that there is no plan to complete the final sealing of this road. I hope that when the Minister replies he has some better news than that. I rather wonder what would happen if some 60 miles of road, say, to the Gold Coast or somewhere in the vicinity of the great populated areas suffered a series of potholes. My goodness, the whole of the workforce would be out in action and money would not be taken into account. The Barkly Highway, particularly near Mount Isa, has a series of potholes and missing sections. No obvious attempt has been made to bring the highway into a condition where, when the wet comes- after all it is not very far away- it will not offer an obstacle to those wanting to get through to Darwin. 
Let me deal briefly with the work of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. I have said in this House and I repeat now that Tracy visited Darwin 9 months ago with all its devastation and as yet the Commission with millions of dollars at its disposal has not yet completed one house. The Minister interjected a moment ago and said $100m was allocated to the Commission alone. I agree with him. That is not taken into account in the figure I gave. I was in Darwin a fortnight ago. I went right through the area and one house is about to be completed. 
-The honourable member should go and play with his yoyo or something; that is about his capability. 
-The honourable member for Bowman is like the Condamine bell. He has a great tongue and a head full of nothingness. The reconstruction of Darwin is vital to the nation. Obvious facts are emerging. People who desire to resettle in Darwin are coming away with the thought that maybe they will never return because there are no homes waiting for them. Admittedly the ground floor has been laid for numerous homes. I believe that the official leak is that probably about 200 homes will be constructed by Christmas, but the reality is, according to those who know the score and who are observing the situation closely, that we will be lucky if we see 20 homes completed by Christmas. This is an obvious operation in socialised construction; a pilot scheme for socialism. It has fallen over on its face. 
I ask honourable members to look at the example set by private enterprise. One has only to wander around Darwin to see that private enterprise has got everything back in action. Large companies have homes completed, including painting, for their employees. One would never know the cyclone had hit. Yet the people who want to return to their own homes find that there is no home to return to. Where are these people put? Most were put on the ship  Patris.  What is that costing? It is costing millions of dollars because of the over bureaucracy, the over planning and the complete bungling that always follows this sort of socialism. 
I would like to stress one or two other points in the few minutes I have left. One is the freight charges which are utterly brutal to the people of the Northern Territory. Price fixing on soft drinks is practised in the Northern Territory. It cost me 40 cents for a small can of Coca Cola in Alice Springs not so very long ago. So much for price fixing. Freight charges from Darwin to Tennant Creek, for instance, have risen 82% per cent in the last 12 months. The co-ordinated freight rate to Tennant Creek is about $140 a tonne. By road it is $75 a tonne. One might say that the freight rates are actually crippling and almost coining to a point where one would write off the rail and road co-ordinated transport. 
Getting away from the Territory for the moment let me refer to one project which is well known to the Minister. I refer to stage 2 of the Urannah Dam scheme. The first stage is certainly under way. The second stage is vital for many reasons. If sufficient water is not available the flourishing rice industry will be brought to a standstill. At present the amount of production is only a fraction of the amount of rice which could be produced and sold in that area. Obviously further allocations of land for sugar will be made and this will absorb the very limited amount of water in the area. The next point relates to something I put before the Minister previously. I did so by telegram, which he ignored of course. I very rarely get a detailed reply from the Minister. I asked nun whether it was true that no executive powers had been given as yet to the Legislative Assembly, and about the rumour of the Cabinet decision that there is no time set down for any executive powers to be given to the Legislative Assembly. I am sure my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  will enlarge on that subject. It is an absolute disgrace and an act of gross hypocrisy that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  went up there and made a great flourish of trumpets about the executive powers which would be given to the Assembly. Because the Government gained no seats in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly this vicious party with its vitriolic detestation of those who do not go along with it has politically deprived the Legislative Assembly of any effective powers whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That this House condemns the failure of the Government to encourage exploration activity to extend Australia's known minerals and energy resources. 
I have moved this motion with the object of bringing home to the Australian people the appalling fact that this Government, and more precisely the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with his henchman the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  will be judged, if their shabby history is ever recorded, as the architects of disaster for an industry which was the envy of the world, an industry that established us a Mecca for huge development and for rich investment. During the pre- Whitlam period it brought prosperity and security to thousands of workers. Through the high quality of housing and amenities it provided instant comfort, community happiness and comradeship in settlements which were established almost overnight in many remote parts of this land. The Minister for Minerals and Energy, encouraged by a group of radical academics, most of them no doubt sharing his sick, obsessional class hatred, men who have not one iota of genuine, practical experience of the mining industry, set out to gain complete control over oil and mineral production in Australia and finally to take over the control of this nation's mineral resources.  His  highly publicised Petroleum and Minerals Authority was to be the vehicle of his grand design. 
Let us examine his tactics. I want to stress one important fact. The victims of his socialist rampage would not be the giant mining companies but the workers- those who sweat underground, those who sometimes lose everything, including their lives, as did 13 of my people at Moura and two at Mt Isa last month and the previous month.  His  threats, his failure to have dialogue with the industry, his desire to bring this monster industry to its knees, will soon bring the present slow down to a grinding halt and the unemployment ripple will grow to a tidal wave. What did he do? He forced out of business those who were exploring for oil and had the most attractive leases? The withdrawal of the search subsidy, the ban on overseas investment, the atmosphere of uncertainty, the dictatorial refusal to have meaningful dialogue with the industry at any level, including union leaders by the way, have lost Australia nearly 3 years of effective minerals and oil exploration activity. Let us face it; if the Government did create conditions favourable to exploration, what company would take the risk of spending millions of dollars with the spectre of Connor control ever present? 
Members of the Government prattle on about my Leader, the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  and us in the Party being in the hands of the major mining companies. They know this is utter rot. These days you can almost detect hysteria in their repetition of the rot. This Government is falling apart. I know what it is like to lose something or someone you cherish. It does lead to irrational conduct and the remorse that follows is hard to handle. Because I understand these things I can well appreciate how the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy feel. They have earned for themselves and this magnificent country, and the once great mining industry, a status which would cause any country to think twice before establishing any sort of relationship with us, trade or otherwise. 
Today I particularly want to discuss the small miner, the prospector, the gouger, the individual miner, an operator who, through thrift, sacrifice and efficiency gained by years of practical experience, has been able to provide limited capital for a lease which can be developed but not on a grand scale. While on this subject allow me to say that up to now these people have been a forgotten race. Like the small businessman, they have never received consideration from this Government. However, in both cases, we on this side of the House now have produced sound policies which are readily available for perusal. In the case of the people I have just mentioned in the mining industry, we have stated clearly that there will be a special tribunal. It will act in an advisory capacity as well as providing material assistance for these people who have been treated so contemptuously by this Government and more particularly by the Minister. 
Let the representative of the Minister in the House today deny that. Let him get up and deny that all pleas for assistance to himself and to the Australian Industry Development Corporation from the small miners who have made approaches to them have been rejected with a callous contempt. In their honey sweet speeches they dishonestly claim to represent such people. I think that this is the third time on which I have issued this challenge. The first occasion was in reply to a claim by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that assistance had been given in numerous cases. But of course he has never named those cases. He has never disputed my challenge, despite letters seeking information on this very subject.  His  credibility, like that of the Prime Minister, is now recognised as non-existent. 
As happened in the Khemlani affair, it has been clearly shown to the public and, regrettably, to the world, that the credibility of the Prime Minister and his Ministers does not exist and that they have diluted and distorted the truth. Our international reputation has suffered to such an extent that it was stated on the program  AM  this morning that the Arabs would be reluctant to do business with this Government. In fact the British financier who was speaking went on to say that a private approach made quite recently to secure finance was flatly rejected. Unless the  Herald  expose is untrue, we will still have the humiliating spectacle of Whitlam, Connor and Co. carrying on these back alley negotiations. One might well ask- in fact all responsible Australians are asking- why in heaven's name the Treasurer was not involved in the initiating action at Government House, why no approach was made through normal financial institutions and why this Government subjected its top public servants to a conspiracy of silence. 
All these things have flowed over to the mining companies in and out of Australia because finance is the lifeblood of mining activity and exploration activity. Whether we like it or not, if large sums of money are required- I am talking about billions of dollars- it is obvious that the source is the Middle East. Whether or not that situation is palatable, that is the case. Let me repeat that the small producer must be assisted. It is well known in the mining world- I have spent a lifetime in the midst of the richest mining leases in the world- that the small operator is an indispensable factor in the overall scene. In the aggregate these small producers are a great money making asset to the nation. This was realised in the United States of America. In about 1970 more particular attention was given to the small operator who could bring his mine to production perhaps through an inexpensive leaching process. That interest by the United States authorities not only stimulated a new deal for the miner himself but in the aggregate a valuable contribution was made to the earnings of the United States mining industry. I shall conclude this section of my address by making 2 points: As far as small Australian mining groups and individual miners are concerned, not only has this Government failed to encourage exploration activity but with calculated contempt it has ignored every request for assistance. 
Now let me comment on the industry generally and look at some of the factors which have produced the present stagnation. Suffice it to say that the overriding cause of the problems facing the mining industry are the policies of the present Federal Government, particularly the twisted ideological motivation of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I know that he deserves most of the blame for bringing the mining industry in Australia to its present state of confusion, crisis and uncertainty, but the Minister is a member of a government which has approved, even praised, all that he has done. It is that Government and the Prime Minister that must accept the ultimate responsibility for the present state of the mining industry. It is interesting to have a look at some figures. I am not in the habit of producing a lot of statistics but I think that these are interesting. Private exploration expenditure, excluding petroleum, over the last 10 years has been as follows: $44min 1965-66, $53m in 1966-67, $1 17m in 1967-68, $184m in 1969-70, $239m in 1970-71. Honourable members should note that one. In 1971-72 the amount was $163m. Now let us look at the figures since this Government took over, taking into account the present inflationary trend. The expenditure in 1972-73 was $131m, in 1973-74 $117m, and in 1974-75 $105m. There has been a steady decline in real terms since the peak in 1 970-7 1 . The outlook is for continued decline. 
The Government's policies towards the mining industry are not simply the result of confusion and misunderstanding, as many people in the industry, I am sorry to say, would like to think. The Government's policy is one of deliberate sabotage of the mining industry. I do not say this lightly: I believe that the present Government is bent on socialising this country, and to achieve this goal it must gain control of Australia's greatest source of wealth- our huge mineral resources. We are led to believe that the back alley negotiations, the Mafia type operation of raising money, were to be devoted to this objective. By bringing confusion and crisis to the mining industry the Government can more easily gain control of those industries. Inflation is part of the strategy designed to drive the mining companies out of business. If favourable world prices still enable them to stay in front, special taxes will be imposed as was the case in the coal industry. The mining industry should not forget that the Government's plans to borrow $4 billion overseas were designed to put the industry out of business. We are not guessing about that. 
If the mining industry wants clear evidence of this Government's intentions it should look at what is happening at Ranger. The industry should take into account the millions of dollars worth of rolling stock lying idle in Darwin. The development of one of the world's richest uranium deposits is being frustrated because the Government is not content that it will control a sufficiently large share of the project. The goahead to the Ranger development would of itself have provided a tremendous stimulus to the Northern Territory and Darwin which is badly in need of a project like this to bring funds and people back to the Top End. These days one utterly despairs going into the Northern Territory. Five or six years ago there were hopes for the cattle industry, hopes for exports, hopes for the production of grain. Above all there were hopes of bringing billions of dollars into the Northern Territory through uranium production. Now the Australian Council of Trade Unions is putting a ban on the export of uranium. Will we see the Government again cringing and crawling when the whip is cracked? In the face of this threat to its very existence the mining industry has reacted, I regret to say, with not a great deal of argument. It is at last beginning to realise that the ground is being cut from beneath its feet. The industry realises that it has a responsibility to join the Opposition in its protest. Perhaps the industry did not understand the facts until they were pointed out. 
I should like to turn now to the policies of the alternative government, an alternative which I hope will become a reality in the near future. The basic policy of a Liberal-National Country Party government will be to revitalise the minerals industry and encourage the development of Australia's mineral resources. Two areas which come to mind immediately where development could be given the go-ahead are coal in the Bowen basin and uranium in the Northern Territory. Several projects are in an advanced stage of planning and only need approval for work to commence almost at once. An essential part of the Liberal-National Country Party program to recommence the development of our mineral resources would be to restore the State governments to their proper role in mineral planning and development. The complete lack of dialogue between the Minister and every one of the State governments- I include the 2 remaining Labor controlled State governments- is a sorry spectacle. We believe that the maximum degree of consultation and co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States is necessary if a policy for mineral development is to be pursued. 
The most important step necessary to bring about renewed interest in mining development in Australia is to clear away some of the myths that surround the whole subject The most important factor which we must realise is that to develop our mineral resources we need the assistance of others- their capital, their knowledge and their markets. Overseas investment in Australia is the cornerstone to this country's economic development. Like all Australians I have said this from the moment I became a member of this House- I want to see as much complete Australian ownership of our natural resources as possible, but we must recognise that Australia needs the experience of the overseas experts, and that the benefits from overseas investment far outweigh the disadvantages. Overseas investors provide jobs, they lead to the creation of other industries and they pay taxes, and their money is as good as anyone else's. 
A Liberal-National Country Party government will adopt a case by case approach to overseas participation in the exploitation of Australia's mineral resources. We will aim at the highest practicable level of Australian ownership but we will not bring all development to a halt because Australians are not willing to put up the capital required for a project, or perhaps are not able to do so. We do not adhere to the policy that if Australians cannot develop a resource, no one else can either. This has been fatal. The policy of the Government has deprived this nation literally of billions of dollars. 
The second myth which we must get away from is that the Australian people can derive a greater benefit from the nation's mineral resources by the direct participation of the Australian Government in mineral development. The Liberal and National Country Parties believe that the Commonwealth Government must play a major role in encouraging the exploration for and development of Australia's mineral resources. But the Government's role is one of creating the climate in which private enterprise will be able to carry out the task of finding and recovering the nation's mineral resources. The role of the Government is to define national policies and to draw up laws for the orderly development of Australia's natural resources. 
Another myth which surrounds the whole issue of minerals development is that we should conserve our mineral resources and leave them in the ground. Nothing could be more shortsighted or disastrous. The Liberal and National Country parties reject the notion that by leaving our minerals in the ground they will only appreciate in value. What utter rot. How fluctuating is the industry? The price of copper is now getting down to a very dangerous level indeed. Consider the operations of Peko-Wallsend. This is the one which the Labor Party cited as being an Australian operation. My recent discussions at all levels with the mining fraternity at Tennant Creek only the week before last indicated that if the price of gold drops much further that company's operations could cease altogether. That is how dependent it has become on the market value. Yet this Government talks about leaving our minerals in the ground. If a market is distorted then alternative sources of supply will be found. Companies are going to other countries for their minerals. I ask for the support of this House and I ask the Australian people to pay heed to this motion that I have moved; that is, that this Government should be condemned for its failure to encourage exploration activity to extend Australia's known minerals and energy resources. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Northern Australia. May I congratulate him on his appointment. I remind him that the gong has gone and I will come out of the red corner. Will the Minister indicate whether he intends to take the urgent steps that are necessary to have executive powers granted to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? Further, will he act with urgent determination to urge the new Minister for Agriculture to have the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission regarding the beef cattle industry implemented? Finally, will he do what regrettably his predecessor failed to do, that is, ensure that some houses at least are completed by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission for the people of Darwin before the wet sets in? I remind the Minister that the clouds are gathering thick and fast. 
I shall be very brief. There is only one aspect that I should like to stress in regard to the Travel Agents Bill, and that is my hope that it does not become so sophisticated and its requirements do not become so complicated as to make it very difficult for travel agents in the remote areas of the country to handle because they cannot employ large staffs and so on. I say this, keeping in mind that all surveys made overseas- I think that Qantas Airways Ltd and other such organisations could confirm this- have indicated that the major Australian attractions, particularly to visitors from the United States, are the Great Barrier Reef and all it has to offer and the Centre. When I say the Centre I do not mean precisely Alice Springs and that particular area, but the inland generally. I suggest that when this Bill is implemented there be close dialogue and discussion with people who are on the spot, who understand and know where there are centres of tremendous attraction that are different from anything else offering in any other part of the world. I say again that surveys which have been carried out to gauge the interest of people indicate in an overwhelming manner that people are interested in the Great Barrier Reef with all its unique features and in what is offering in the inland, which is obviously unique. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 'Australia' includes a prescribed external Territory; 'bank' means a bank as defined by section S of the Banking Act 1959-1974; 
-One thing which brings out all the venom which I am capable of expressing is the absolute hypocrisy of many honourable members of the Government side in relation to the Aboriginal question. If perhaps I am exaggerating my reaction may I say that it has been stimulated by one or two practical examples. One has been my own experience in this chamber where at least half a dozen honourable members on the other side have been unable to restrain their racist inclinations and have had a crack at me. So perhaps I am able to understand a little more than others the feelings of Aboriginals. 
Let me tell the Committee about an incident on an aircraft a few months ago when I was travelling between Sydney and Canberra. A very prominent member of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Jack  Egerton, looked at  Senator Neville  Bonner and in a voice that could be heard not only in that aeroplane but also in any other aeroplane that might have been flying within 5 or 6 miles of it, said: 'Good day, Bonner. Have you got a didgeridoo with you?' As if that were not enough, again in a voice that could be heard from one end of the aircraft to the other, he said when he rose to leave the plane: 'You go ahead of me, Bonner. I wouldn't have a black walking behind me'. That man is a spokesman for the so-called pro- Aboriginal Labor Party. 
But let us get down to some more fundamental points. Yesterday we heard the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  making implications - 

 -Mr Speaker, you may have noticed that I went across to the table and brought back a glass of water to my seat. The reason for doing that was that I had suffered a very serious shock. I had not only suffered a shock but also my reaction was one of complete disappointment and almost disbelief. We listened to the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  make a great - 
I am glad that you appreciated it and I am doubly aware of the fact that the honourable member for Hunter would show an appreciation of that speech. 
I want the House and the nation to understand that what I am about to say would undoubtedly attract the support of the honourable member for Hunter because the quotation that the honourable member for Chifley read to this House was written by  Mr Salmon,  the editor of the  Tribune  and a member of the National Executive of the Communist Party of Australia. The entire quotation on the Central Intelligence Agency was from an article by a member of the National Executive of the Communist Party. Do honourable members wonder why I went for a drink of water? It seems that the criticism of the CIA is becoming more and more accelerated and is coming from the same source alt the time. Could it be, and this is being slightly suspicious, that there is a world wide movement to break down the efficient system by which the CIA is vigilant to protect the free world? Could that be the case? I notice that the honourable member for Chifley has left the chamber. I do not blame him one bit. He is probably sending telegrams to his electorate disowning the whole of the quotation. 
I would like to concentrate for the next 17% minutes on certain matters affecting the most prolific part of this nation, northern Australia. I would like to talk of what is required to bring to that area, which is subject to the exploitation of its huge resources, the quality of life which its citizens should attract. When I talk in Canberra of northern Australia I refer to everything north of a line running through Brisbane, the famous Brisbane line. We have been through an agonising 3 years and no one attracted the spleen and venom of those who formerly sat on the Government side but will never again have the comfort of sitting on that side more than did the people in non-metropolitan areas. The reason for this was clear. The former Government was under some sort of misapprehension that people living in capital cities would be attracted by their odd, queer and weird politics. However, these people gave a very clear decision on that question last December, as we all know. 
One of the products of the Whitlam era was the creation of conflict between people in metropolitan areas and those in non-metropolitan areas and it is forever to the shame of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that he constantly did everything possible to create that conflict. One ounce of common sense would have clearly indicated that we are interdependent. The prosperity of one part of this great nation affects profoundly the prosperity of another. This was clearly illustrated when that agonising strike occurred in Mount Isa. It brought a great part of the wealth producing machinery of this nation to a sickening halt. We saw the provincial city of Townsville come to a standstill. We saw the prosperity of Brisbane, the capital of Queensland, come to a standstill, and we saw only one provincial city producing a great part of the wealth of this nation. 
It is apparent to everyone that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  already is making his mark. He has a huge and distasteful job to do; that is, to restore the economy of this nation. I am sure that every Australian is proud to serve under him because he is a man of the highest integrity, a man of huge capacity and a man who will make up his mind, set his sights and proceed. It was almost laughable to hear the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  for whom I must confess I have a great deal of respect because I think he is intense and reasonably sincere according to the standards of those who sit on that side of the House, speaking of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Do not get me wrong or let me get over-enthusiastic about the honourable member but I was absolutely amazed not only at his naivety but also at how he thought he was convincing any Australian that the recent visit of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, my Leader, to Japan was abortive. It was so productive that I heard one person who is forever castigating my Leader say that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has set this nation forward 25 years. That is what he has done in one simple operation. He did not go over there to establish some sort of liaison with people who hold similar ideas to those of the pathetic group that remains on the Opposition side of the House whose objective usually was to go over there, snivel and crawl, and be subservient to some twopence-halfpenny nation because it waved a red flag and espoused the Left. The former Government never woke up to one thing. As one who was a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party for some years I am absolutely appalled and find it difficult to understand that it has no political sensitivity at all. They are constantly ranting about the Governor-General, and who will ever forget - 
Yes, that is correct. I know what you are in or should be in. I shopped around until I found the best Party in Australiaone of the best political organisations in the world- and joined it. I do not apologise to the likes of you for that. The  Deputy  Prime Minister went to Japan and returned and honestly reported the results of his visit. He did not come back and try to impress this nation with the fact that he had sold hundreds of thousands of tonnes of beef. He came back and told us quite soberly and with absolute truth and integrity that at this stage it was difficult to say what would happen and how we would go with the selling of beef to Japan. He did not come back and unload what was left of the caviare and champagne and great queues of people who accompanied him. If honourable members look at the list of people who went with the  Deputy  Prime Minister they will find that they were a hard-working team, unlike when the previous Prime Minister and  Deputy  Prime Minister went overseas with their great crowds of friends, relatives and Lord knows what. 
I draw attention to some of the detailed requirements of the northern part of Australia. 
When one thinks in terms of northern Australiaagain I refer to everything north of the Queensland border, that is the border between Queensland and New South Wales, and running right across to the west- one must think in terms of people and their requirements. One must think of the conditions under which they live and the incentives which attract them to areas which are comparatively remote and in many ways climatically unattractive. If people go into areas such as these they do so for one specific purpose, to develop great wealth-producing industries. One cannot assess the requirements of people in these areas- and I am constantly appalled by any Minister in any government who would do soagainst those of people who live in the more privileged, intense areas of this nation. One cannot judge their requirements that way and any honest administrator would admit this. 
One of the factors that most influence the life of not only the people in remote areas such as these but also the industries which they develop is water. Three schemes currently require government backing and government assistance. I make these comments with a full appreciation of the fact that the Government is not looking for ways to spend money but is looking for ways to save money. What I will say emphatically and forever is that governments should not save money at the expense of those industries which eventually will be the wealth producing industries of this nation. They should not economise at the expense of great wealth producing industries. They should not develop city areas at the expense of remote country areas. I refer to 3 specific schemes, all of which are in the northern part of Australia. One is the Burdekin scheme, another is the Urana Dam and the third is the Julius Dam. 
In my hands I have a petition which I propose to put before the Prime Minister. I think I can proudly claim that this is the largest petition of its kind per head of population that has ever come to Canberra. There are 8550 signatures to that petition. It is not the normal sort of petition that is presented to the House; it will go directly to the Prime Minister. I know that this scheme is already understood by the Prime Minister, that he has discussed it and that he will do everything possible to assist in bringing it to fruition. It is not the building of an ordinary dam, it is a scheme which will eventually serve 3 distinct mining areas. In other words it is an investment and it will have advantages not only for the city of Mt Isa. I say that because I might be accused of being parochial and this I would resist with all my might. While on the subject of Mt Isa I point out that unless assistance is forthcoming in relation to this scheme we will find that the people there are disadvantaged. Every person who lives in a city such as Mt Isa is a VIP and is there for a specific purpose. They are not there to enjoy the cool breezes or on some tourist jaunt. Tourists merely pass through, although they are very important to the area. This scheme is to serve 3 distinct mineral developments and in the very near future the proposal will be placed in the hands of the Prime Minister. 
Another matter that is of vital importance to life in northern Australia is that of housing. The previous Government through one or two of its Ministers, who I must say are not now with us, went around the country making great play of the fact that I had suggested that the possible provision of adobe housing in remote areas should be closely examined. What they did not know was that I had actually studied adobe housing in the mid-west of the United States. These days an adobe house is not just a mud hut with some poor broken down Indian living in it, or something of this nature; it has an aesthetic and climatic value, but above all it is economical because the materials are on the spot. I hope that there will be a detailed examination of the housing requirement for northern Australia. 
I now refer to the industry that has emerged as, more or less, the life saver of Australia. We saw the wool industry go through its agony and wondered whether it would survive. A great journalist of this country prophesied that the wool industry had had it and it was no good sending good money after bad. I pay credit to 3 people who stood their ground and would not budge an inch in a long drawn out fight to get the subsidy which eventually led to the survival of the wool industry. They are my Leader, my  Deputy  Leader and Peter Nixon. We won the fight and within no time- it was the following year- that industry once more was worth $800m to $ 1,000m per annum to this nation. Today it is worth that and more. Then the beef cattle industry was staggering under international market conditions to a point where the producers were fighting not for development but for survival. Not just the producers were affected- most of the larger ones were well able to look after themselves. But the thousands of people in the towns who depend on this industry- the subcontractors, the railway men who get their bit of overtime- were affected. The point I am making is that out of this situation emerged the great giant of the mining industry. It is forever to the shame of members of the Opposition that when in government they brought that industry to its knees. The most devastating part of their record was that in their ivory towers they were so completely convinced that they were right in smashing and breaking up this industry that the former Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was unapproachable and would not go into dialogue with the industry or any aspect of it. 
While I am on the subject of mining I should like to pay tribute to the thousands of coal miners who work in the electorate of Kennedy. I do not do so with the object of making a great impression on the electors in my electorate. I think they know me well enough now and I know them. We had the terrible experience recently of 13 of those men being killed, deep in the heart of the Kennedy electorate. Every coal miner who goes underground knows that he takes with him a certain amount of risk. I am not here to cause any industrial strife, but if ever there were a group of workers who were entitled to every penny they earned it is the coal miners of this nation. 
While I am talking about coal miners I want to talk about the small miner generally. I am proud that from this coalition, from the Liberal and National Country Parties, from the FraserAnthony Government, a firm undertaking has emerged that an advisory panel will be established to advise the small mining community. I certainly appeal to our Ministry to make a decision in that regard in the near future. Such a panel would not cost a huge amount of money. Almost since the inception of the mining industry there has never been a tribunal or any organised body to which the smaller miner could look for advice and assistance to get him over a difficult period. I repeat, we have given that undertaking and I am looking forward to the panel coming into action as quickly as possible. 
I come back to the CIA. Tied up with the consideration of the activities of the CIA is the defence of this nation. Once more we get back to the northern part, the frontier part of this nation. Once more we must with disgust and shame consider the allegations. I repeat again: If anyone in this nation had any doubts whatsoever as to the allegiance of many men in the Opposition they must have been convinced when they heard the honourable member for Chifley- a man for whom I have the greatest respect- quote in detail from an article written by  Mr Salmon,  an executive member of the Communist Party and the editor of the  Tribune.  The honourable member told the House the details. He wanted to throw mud on my Leader and also on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and somehow or other associate us with the CIA. If the CIA is acting for the defence and the protection of this nation and the free world I would stand four square with it, and make no apology, but not the honourable member for Chifley. He quoted the editor of the  Tribune,  a member of the executive of the Australian Communist Party. 
I most certainly will occupy only a few minutes of the House's time. I do feel that I should like to associate myself with what I think is a splendid step forward in Australian- Japanese relations. That is the establishment and, I hope, the continuance of the Australia- Japan Foundation. During the last 10 years there has been a growing recognition by both Canberra and Tokyo of the wide community of interests shared by the 2 countries. These shared interests are most evident in the economic field. We have these shared interests with Japan despite the antagonism which grew up during the last 3 years. I say that not out of any feeling of meanness towards the demised government, the previous Government, but based on facts. A government cannot, on the one hand, berate the capitalist countries of the world and almost point a finger across the waters to Japan and the United States, and then on the other hand put out a miserable, hypocritical hand of friendship. It just does not work out that way. 
As though that were not enough, from time to time we see in the minds and the hearts of many a person who sits on the Opposition side, their uncontrollable racist attitudes. No one knows more of them than I do. I have kept a little dossier. One of those most responsible for racial outbursts was the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  There was a great spokesman for Australia. On the one hand he will give vent to his racist emotions and on the other he will go across to Japan and expect these people of Asiatic origin to greet him with open arms. The situation just did not turn out that way. However it is a fact that whatever be the circumstances, the relations between Australia and Japan more particularly at this stage are based on our trade relations. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is an enthusiast in this regard and the Government with him are intent now on taking our relations beyond that. It is fairly obvious from this Bill that there is going to be an effort to bring our peoples much closer together. 
Most members in this House, I suppose, have visited Honolulu or the United States in one way or another. It will only be one way from now on I guess- the other has gone. However, these members would have observed- this is more particularly noticeable in Singapore and Hawaii generally- that there are literally thousands of Japanese tourists. Admittedly we are beginning to get a trickle of Japanese tourists into this country. The people who come into the country- the people who embark on a tourist safari of this nature- are usually people who are concerned with talking about their trips, not only with coming over for the ordinary pleasures which I suppose are in evidence here and in some respects to an even greater extent in Japan. I think that when we plan our tourism it should be done with the idea in mind that people will take back not just the reaction of an ordinary tourist but an appreciation of what this country has to offer which goes beyond the ordinary tourism. I hope that the Foundation will stimulate a much greater flow of tourists from Japan to Australia. I think we have a fairly heavy flow of tourists from Australia to Japan. No doubt that flow would be accelerated too. 
The main point I should like to make in the one or two minutes that I propose to speak on this Bill is the importance of bringing together the peoples of Australia and Japan generally, but more particularly the peoples in northern Australia and Japan. My mind immediately goes to the huge and almost limitless possibility of producing solar energy in this country. We have vast areas and recent experimentation on solar energy has brought it almost to a stage of perfection. It has almost reached a stage now where it could become a commercial enterprise. Two scientists, a husband and wife team in southern Arizona whose names just escape me for the moment, have recently produced what was the unattainable. That was a means of storing solar energy in a small compact area, in a sort of battery form. Those who know what they are talking about claim that Australia is probably the one country in the world which could produce huge quantities of hydrogen from solar energy and so on. If one goes a little further and gets a little more practical in this matter, it is quite possible that within the next 10, 15, or 20 years, we may see our motor vehicles running on hydrogen. This is a simple proposition. The only complexity about it is that a tank about twice the size of an ordinary petrol tank is required. 
What has this got to do with the Foundation? It has a lot to do with it and it has a lot to do with northern Australia because geographically the people there are a little closer to Japan than the people of the southern part of Australia. Hence I think it is a little hard to explain the great wastage that occurs in taking some of our materials from the southern part of the nation right around the coastline and up to Japan when the very same products could be taken out of the soilthey are being produced in great quantities in northern Australia-and shipped to Japan at a much lesser cost. This has been a great point in northern Australia. The Townsville Harbour Board and all of those people up there who are anxious to stimulate direct trade with Japan just get a little appalled and browned off when they are excluded from such an arrangement. I ask the House to take heed of this possibility and when the Foundation does come into operation and our people are brought together with ties not only of trade, but of culture, of industrial attitudes and so on, to keep well in mind that northern Australia is a little closer to Japan than the nation generally. I would go along with the other speakers and express my support for the Bill. I hope that not only will it come into action but that it will stimulate and bring our people together in a very effective and, most importantly, in a genuine way. There should be not just a sudden change of attitude towards these Asiatic people because we can cash in on them but a genuine attitude of friendship. Unless there is a genuine attitude, the Foundation will not survive and will not be stimulated to become the powerful force it should most certainly be. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I have the utmost respect for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is a former Treasurer, but he did make one or two remarks on which I wish to comment. At almost the conclusion of his speech he made the first remark which I wish to examine. He said that no one in Australia was prepared to take a risk. Of course no one was prepared to take a risk under the conditions that existed during the 3 years of bad administration by the Labor Government. Not only was no one prepared to take a risk but also the whole of the giant mining industry came to a standstill. The other point upon which I wish to comment is the impression I gained from his remarks that he was saying that there was not very much difference, taking into account the pressures and so on, between the position in the last 3 years and in the previous 7 years. I cannot believe that he was serious about that; he is far too learned and far too honest. So I must take issue with him on those 2 comments. The previous 7 years, particularly five or six of those 7 years, were the most prosperous years and the greatest period of development in the whole history of the mineral industry in this nation. I think I can speak with some authority on this subject as I represent the electorate in which most of the great developments have taken place. 
That brings me to the matter of what is now the greatest mining complex of its kind in the world- Mount Isa Mines Ltd. The people who have had a meaningful association with that part of the world and its growth may have been called a lot of clots because they live in that part of the world and did not see very much happening, but they can look back with satisfaction at the progress which has taken place. A few attempts were made initially to take the great ore body in that area out of the ground and to get this great enterprise operating, but they were not successful. Attempt after attempt was made in this country to raise the necessary capital but those attempts were without success. Finally- and I give credit to the Queensland Government for this- a limited amount of about 500,000, I think, was made available to try to keep at least some life in this ore body, and then of course we began to attract overseas capital. 
Let me make one thing perfectly clear, and I am terribly sensitive about this. I have from the moment I became a member of this House expressed my own attitude in clear and precise terms, and that is this: If we have the expertise, if we have the capital available then we do not really want one cent from overseas. I again refer to the situation at Mount Isa and point out that it is very doubtful indeed whether the mining enterprise there would have got off the ground, let alone been developed to the position it is now in and which it has been for some years- I do not want to stress the present position too much- but for Australian initiative. For many years it has been completely controlled by Australian management and Australian enterprise. The present position is that the majority of the shareholding in Mount Isa Mines is in the hands of Australians and that is as it should be. 
Let us be sensible about this matter. If honourable members want a comparison let me deal with Chile where the great revolution took place and where the great copper mining industry of that nation was brought to its knees because suddenly the expertise disappeared, the incentive disappeared. The great experiment of socialisation of that industry was another failure and there was chaos. Anyone who studied the record would have nothing to do with trying to socialise and hand over to socialist control a mining enterprise of that nature. Whatever be our feelings regarding the politics of Chile we now see that it has again returned to prosperity, or to a much greater degree of prosperity than previously existed in that country, and we now find that this huge mining enterprise is operating efficiently. 
It has become quite common in this House and outside it for people who want to have a hard hit at someone to attack the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the present Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony).  Let me look at his record in the short time he has held that portfolio. The first thing he did was to send a wave of confidence right through the mining industry. If some of the leaders of the industry find cause not to agree entirely with the policies of the Government and the policies of my Leader, I believe they will still readily admit that they are now breathing much more freely and that the great mining industry will be back to what it was, we hope in a very short space of time. We should look at this matter sanely. The great gripe of people opposite, of course, concerns the 75 per cent foreign participation level. When I say the 'great gripe', I refer to the criticism that has been forthcoming. Uranium is one particular commodity that we have in the ground which is of vital importance to Australia. I am not going to go into the details because this has been said time and again. Would any sane Australian permit some foreign country to come into this nation and take over our uranium resources? I suppose that Labor Party supporters will say that we on this side are adopting their policy. In a moment I will get on to the subject of fisheries. Let me expose the poh.cies of the Labor Party. Let me expose its attitudes in this field. It cannot claim credit for our uranium policy because we above all had deep in our philosophy and in our policies the defence and security of this country which are very much tied up with uranium. This is one commodity which I feel must be regarded in a separate category altogether. 
Let me examine the statement made by the Treasurer which was elaborated on by the Deputy Prime Minister in respect of participation in the mining of other ores and minerals. People conveniently overlook the fact that it has been stated time and time again by the Minister for National Resources that no project will die because of any particularly inelastic guidelines. That has been made perfectly clear. Honourable member's opposite fear Doug Anthony. They fear this Deputy Prime Minister. That is why he is their target for attack. They know he is a man of immense integrity. They know he is a man who is so honest that he says what he believes, he stands by his convictions, he has a sense of direction and nothing will move it. People on the other side of this House fear a man of that character, but they do not get anywhere with their attack. 
I said that I would refer to fisheries. We do not have a great deal, if any, foreign participation in the fisheries of this country. We may have it in a fringe sort of way. But when one thinks of fisheries one thinks of the Gulf of Carpentaria. There was a great deal of squealing and going on by supporters of the previous Government about the sanctified waters of the Gulf being infringed, trespassed upon and so on. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  my fellow Queenslander, in the quickest possible time made sure there was vigilance in this area. He made sure there would be a survey of those waters day and night. He took action to ensure that Taiwanese were not creeping into this country. I wonder whether there would be a great squeal from those opposite if a boatload of Fretilin forces came over? It is extraordinary. The Opposition went to the extent of sending a man to the United Nations because its supporters are all upset over these poor Fretilin people. They are upset because they carry the great red sickle and hammer behind them. They cannot help themselves because they are so sensitive about this. One only has to show a red sickle and hammer and these men are up in arms and cry out: 'Ah, the poor Fretilin'. I wonder what those who sit opposite would say if the Fretilin people wanted to invest in our fisheries industry. 
One final point I want to make relates to vigilance and the closest possible examination of overseas control of our various industries. The Government's policies are set out quite clearly in the statement by the Treasurer. I was the  chairman  of the Government's drought committee during the terrible years of drought. We were particularly vigilant to ensure that there would be no foreign investment whatsoever, and that no vultures would be hovering over our lands to come down and buy at some giveaway price. It was the Country Party and the Liberal Party who watched over this. The people who sit opposite would not even know what I am talking about because they have never been west of the Great Divide except when they have come through like a brumby with his tail on fire, made some political comment and dashed back to the coast. We were the ones who were vigilant. We were the ones who watched over the possibility of the multi-nationals taking control of this country. 
The Treasurer's statement is clear. It is lucid. It sets out at long last a policy. The Minister for National Resources has swept aside the doubts and confusion. He has set down guidelines. Some of them perhaps are not so popular but at least the industry knows where it is going, and under this Government this nation knows where it is going. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources. Will he indicate to the House the present condition of Australia's revived raining industry and provide a comparison with the dismal, disastrous, abortive , and stagnant 3 years of decline in the industry when Labor was in power? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Road Safety I bring up the first report of the Committee on passenger motor vehicle safety. A limited number of copies of the report are available from the Bills and Papers Office and copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with that report. 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that employees of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have been confiscating radio transmitters in the outlying areas of central and northern Queensland? Those radio transmitters have been operating for many years as the only form of communication for people in remote areas. For many people these radio transmitters are the only form of contact with the outside world. They are even used by officials during times of crisis. 
Is the Minister for National Resources aware of a statement by  Mr Madigan,  the  Chairman  of Blair Athol Coal Pty Ltd, that the company has shelved plans for development of a steaming coal project at Blair Athol in Queensland? Does the Minister accept the reasons given by  Mr Madigan  for this decision to put aside plans for a $500m project? 
It is interesting to note that this is the first debate of its kind on defence since 1972. Apropos of that, I congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for the sense of urgency and responsibility to this nation and its people that he brought to his department when we took office. What courage and tenacity must have been required to rebuild on the wreckage which the previous Government had left-an army with morale at its lowest ebb, a navy whose remaining ships rarely sailed and an almost grounded air force. Who could forget the tragic but humorous content on the notice which appeared at the Amberley Royal Australian Air Force base when the Mirage squadron was out of action: 'Our inactivity due to Labor pains'? The Minister's achievements have been many in a short space of time, but the one which has impressed us all is the manner in which he extracted from the Treasury $12, 000m for a 5-year program. 
I would like to make a brief comment on the quite wild and surprisingly irresponsible claims made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I cite his reply to the Defence Minister on 25 May. Referring to the Minister, he said: 
He proudly announces equipment purchases as if they were new, as if he were responsible. 
Now comes the completely incorrect claim: 
Every piece of equipment he mentions was ordered, or its ordering foreshadowed, by Labor. 
I will refer to only two of the items mentionedthe Leopard tanks and the Rapier surface-to-air guided missiles. These items were dealt with during my term as Minister for the Army in 1 972. As a matter of fact the Rapier missiles have been under discussion for 1 1 years. I actually drove the Leopard tank myself before a decision was made. At that time the thought of the Australian Labor Party being in power was only a horrible, nightmarish possibility. 
In any defence and security assessment we must now accept the concept that forward defence is out and mainland strategy and the immense problems involved is the reality. Military authorities have theorised as to what should be the order of priorities in our mainland defence planning. I would submit that the following could be the most obvious and acceptable: Firstly, surveillance; secondly, the development of forces in the north and north-west and if we are able, without dispersing our forces too much along our northern and western frontiers, Darwin to Fremantle, if you like, and Darwin to the Gulf; third command structure. 
Let me briefly look at some of these requirements. In regard to surveillance, we are inclined immediately to think in terms of aircraft patrols and light boat patrols, and so we should. However, the much more effective eyes and ears of our defence must be static new generation systems particularly the sonar systems remotely controlled providing us with constant vigilance. There is now a variety of these and time does not permit me to discuss them, but no doubt they will be referred to by other speakers on the Government side, men highly qualified and experienced such as the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson).  An urgent requirement obviously is the second priority I have referred to, that is the development of our forces in the north and north-west. This must be examined in regard to mobility, communications, availability of logistics and again the best use of new generation weapons. I must say right now that the whole concept of future warfare must be based on the reality of unbelievable technical advances made during recent years in the perfecting of such weapons. 
Perhaps at this point I could refer to just a few of the items on the space age shopping list. It is said that precision guidance of missiles has reached such perfection that you could wipe out a selected building in Washington or Moscow without breaking a window on Capital Hill or in the Kremlin. Wire guidance, radio command, laser beam riding and terrain contour matching are but some of the fields of experimentation which have produced this perfected precision guidance. 
Great technical advances have been made with night vision devices, remotely piloted vehicles, conventional explosive and warhead technology. Let me refer to the horrifying ca- pacity of two of the items under this heading, ne is bomblets. A bomb the size of a person's fist delivered with the precision previously referred to will sink a $ 1,000m aircraft carrier. The cost of the bomb would be negligible. Another horrible possibility is fuel air explosives. This is a cloud of explosive vapour ignited to wipe out everything beneath it. If all of this were still in the experimental stage I could well be accused of wasting the time of this House and at this moment that would not be appreciated. But let be repeat that these weapons and defence systems are a reality and setting aside the nuclear element they would most certainly be used in the case of wholesale warfare. This now brings me to the most important consideration- logistic replacements. Money and effort could be well wasted if we did not pause to consider new weaponry before placing long and costly orders for weapons that could be quite useless in the new generation strategy. When we ponder on this line of thought, the $ 12,000m defence funding is anything but excessive. 
One of the serious consequences of the manner in which the Labor Party when in office downgraded matters of defence was the reaction of the Australian people. In my opinion there was a deliberate and sustained effort by that iniquitous government to establish in the minds of the younger people particularly the suggestion that this country could be under threat was just another example of kicking the communist can. So not only was the security of this country an unpopular matter to contemplate- no one likes to think of war and destruction- but patriotism itself was almost presented as something to be ashamed of. How a country can degenerate under shabby and incapable political leadership ! It is encouraging to note that informed sources, informed observers, now claim that all this has changed, and not since the Vietnam war has there been a greater defence awareness amongst our Australian people. It is the duty of every member of this House to arouse his people to responsible defence and security alertness. 
One of the most contemptible actions of the previous Government was the decision to abolish the cadet system. This, I think, was a part of its class hatred philosophy. How its prejudices can expose its sense of unreality! During my term as Minister for the Army the cadets I came in contact with were the sons of solid working class battler-type families. I immediately think of one of the most enthusiastic and efficient cadet groups I knew and this was at the Mount Morgan High School, a small mining community, not the mecca of sons of the idle rich. The amount of interest by the Australian people in the Cadet Corps was clearly in evidence when more than 1000 letters and submissions containing constructive suggestions were received by the Millar Committee. It is well known that the Minister for Defence was most conscious of the necessity to reintroduce the cadet system. He has done so and it is hoped that the cadets will be in business from early September. 
The future defence and security of Australia could well depend on our relationship with certain countries and on developments in other potential trouble spots near and not so near to this country. Let me look at a few of them. Relations with Japan have taken a giant step forward since our Party returned to office. Not only trade arrangements, but bonds of friendship were established on an excellent and permanent basis when the  Deputy  Prime Minister visited Japan last February. He not only conferred with Prime Minister Miki and Trade and Industry Minister,  Mr Komoto,  but had most cordial discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Miyazawa.  Soon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will visit Japan, and it is interesting to note that this will be his first major overseas visit. So he has clearly indicated, as our Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  who will accompany him has done, that he regards our relations with Japan as of paramount importance. It is not only the immense trade between the 2 nations which has created this unique relationship between Australia and Japan. Ethnically Japan is certainly of the Asian family, but her dramatic westernisation, her progress in production and her capacity to enter into competition and in many cases lead the world in modern technology, has lined her up with countries such as the United States and the Western block European countries which of course include Australia. Yet with all of this, Japan has remained relatively uncommitted in the matter of balanced power on our side of the globe. 
In any assessment of Australian foreign relationships and defence there is a growing belief that Papua New Guinea could well become a problem area of worrying proportions. The political situation in this emerging nation is not near as stable as it was when it became independent. The leadership of Prime Minister Michael Somare was unquestioned. The National Party was intact. Bougainville's Father John Momis was still at least a member of the national Parliament. Now we see the suggestion that the Prime Minister could be challenged. The National Party has been decimated by resignations and John Momis, after a series of semi-resignations, ended speculation about the positions of himself and another Bougainvillean, Raphael Bele, when his official resignation was announced on 29 March. 
The situation on Bougainville, where the determination to make the Republic of the North Solomons a reality, is apparently gaining momentum. To speculate on this becoming a reality is to ponder a Papua New Guinea deprived of its only substantial and permanent revenue- the great mines on Bougainville. If this is an inevitability one would hope for the sake of our northern neighbour that it might not occur before other proposed mining ventures are developed to the production stage. Then what could be a volatile situation might well be defused. I could not conclude my comments on Papua New Guinea without pointing out that Australia can take much comfort from the fact that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  is our Foreign Minister. He has an experienced understanding of that country and its people.  His  sincerity of purpose has been appreciated by the leaders and people of Papua New Guinea at all levels. 
I turn now to Lebanon. History has shown time and time again that civil war produces a special ferocity, hatred and courage. How tragically evident this is when one looks at the war in Lebanon and examines the record of slaughter and the unbelievable scenes of destruction. Less than 2 years ago this small, friendly country was drawing people from all over the world, not only because of its natural attractions which contrasted the ancient with the ultra modern- the ruins of Ba'albek with downtown Beirut. All of us who have spent time there would confirm that the major attraction was the people themselves. The Lebanese, non-Christian and Christian, had a special brand of friendship, a special warmth in their kindness. All this has changed. More people have been killed in Lebanon, in less than 18 months, than in all recent Israeli-Arab conflicts. And the world looks on, moved to genuine expressions of compassion for the Lebanese people and to conjecture as to the variety of appalling possibilities if the result of this conflict moves in one direction or another, but not inclined to set in motion any influences that might persuade both sides to halt a war that could well accelerate to wholesale genocide. 
Let us examine the possibilities. Firstly, the one we all would want is the immediate end to the killing, a sensible, realistic assessment of the pressures that produced the war and a solution that would bring justice to all. Let us look at another possibility, and that is the full-scale entry into Lebanon of Syrian forces. Would this not bring forward the possibility of a large-scale Israeli-Arab war? Of course, the grand and final question is: Can the world afford to look the other way and try to convince itself that this is just another isolated conflict, an internal squabble that must be decided by the Lebanese people themselves? I think not. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to the editorial in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  in which certain claims are made with respect to expenditure on Service equipment this financial year? Are these claims well founded? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, in a most serious manner. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that members on this side of the House had never been actively associated with unions at all. This is entirely incorrect. In my case I was actively associated with the Federated Clerks Union when I was working on the wharves. I was a delegate for the State Service Union when I was at the university and at the Public Curator's Office in Queensland. I was actively working for the Australian Workers Union for many years in far Western Queensland.  Senator Collard  was Secretary of the Combined Railways Union and Secretary of the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen. I could go on. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-In supporting this Bill, I state first of all that the Minister for Post and Telecommunication's  .(Mr Eric  Robinson) has shown some foresight. Apparently he anticipated that some television stations, particularly those away from the more favoured intense areas, were going to have difficulty in surviving. The Minister's second reading speech indicates that there are 48 commercial television stations in operation and that for eleven of those stations there will be no increase in licence fees under the new scale. It is interesting to note that the turnover or gross income of four of those stations is below $500,000.  Obviously  the Minister saw that there would be difficulties in the continuing prosperity of those stations. Might I refer to what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  just said about that much discussed program  Alvin Purple. 
-To keep  Alvin Purple  clean would be quite a project. I may have certain capabilities, but they do riot extend that far. I imagine that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, in putting this film on the market, appreciates the fact that those people controlling the commercial stations which are sufficiently prosperous to take on a series such as  Alvin Purple  have achieved that prosperity by being very astute businessmen. I am quite confident, as no doubt he is, that the commercial stations will reject the program. I agree with the honourable member for Corio when he puts  Alvin Purple  in the same category as  The Box  and  Number 96.  All I can say about  Number 96  is that it must have a great publicity officer. I was in the picture show business, where people know what is a good film and what is a crook film. This would not be put on as a support film in Kajabbi, and that is a little town hundreds of miles from anywhere. The program  No. 96  has been referred to as an epic produced by our Australian producers in a dingy little building. We have the scope to make magnificent films. We could make, a series such as  Rush  which would sell anywhere. Any cinema in Australia would grab at it. 
I am pleased that the Minister has come into the House because I wish to put forward a proposition which I hope will receive his support. Because the Minister is present I repeat that I support the Bill, which is far-sighted, looking to the future. I said before that the Minister when he framed this Bill must have anticipated that the television stations which are away from the intense areas would have difficulties ahead of them, and I commend the Minister for taking into account their financial problems. Television stations in remote areas normally start telecasting at about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, and by 10 o'clock at night, when the viewer is just getting warmed up to watch a good movie, the transmission ends. I would suggest respectfully that when we achieve the prosperity which the Government is rapidly bringing about, although not as rapidly as one would like, we could be a little more extravagant than we are being now. I refer to licence fees and such like- anything pertaining to the economy of these stations which will permit them to telecast over a longer period. 
One of the reasons I have spoken on this Bill is to put in a plug for that particular aspect of the operations of commercial television stations, that is, that they be provided with financial conditions within their structure- I do not mean actual handouts- that will encourage them and permit them to telecast for longer periods. I commend ABC television to the infinite degree in regard to the presentation of its documentaries; their content is another matter. I wish we had more time to discuss that aspect. However, the ABC's presentation is second to none; it is superb. What a pity it is that the people who plan that presentation have such a slanted, peculiar and weird attitude towards life and towards Australianism. 
I will give one example of an area in which there is obviously a breakdown in communications between those who plan our programs and the people for whom that entertainment is provided- It may mean that some day there should be a second ABC television station. Maybe the people who live in the more thickly populated areas like gardening programs, but do they like them to the extent of having televised in the afternoon of last Sunday week three such programs on ABC television? If you do not like ABC television in my little old home town you do not watch television; you cannot switch to any other channel. The only other channel is Coppermine Creek and you can throw yourself in it. After watching 3 programs on gardening during one Sunday afternoon that was the thought that occupied the minds of many of us. Quite seriously, where is the planning in that sort of programming? 
I am sure that the Minister will give my argument his utmost sympathy. I suggest that in the future years or maybe in future months when the economy of this country becomes more buoyant than it is at the moment and we can begin to think of giving some sort of assistance to commercial television stations we should in fact encourage them and give them the sort of financial encouragement that will permit them to telecast programs for longer periods. Alternatively, our ABC program planners should come out into the great outback where we depend entirely on that medium for our entertainment and give us a little more variety. I remember one afternoon when we saw the Duke of Edinburgh being sworn in for something or other, and the program ran for exactly an hour and fifteen minutes before he was sworn in. No doubt people from the electorate of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  in Western Australia would have some comment to make on that. We commend and support the Bill. We again ask the Minister- this is the third time that I have said it, and it will be the last: When conditions permit please give to television stations in areas other than the thickly populated areas support which will permit them to telecast for longer periods. The Minister has shown foresight and we commend him for it. 
-This Budget is renowned for 2 things. The first is that it has to mend a financial situation which appeared to be beyond repair. The other quite remarkable thing about it is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and all those who were the loud voices prior to the election made one thing perfectly clear, that the Budget strategy- the planning- to mend this nation would take the term of 3 years. When one looks at an analysis of the arguments that were put forward as to how this should be done and examines the planning in its various segments one finds that this Government is well ahead in time. I want to make clear my own attitude, my own philosophy which is the philosophy of those who sit with me on this side of the House, that despite the shallow, puerile, hypocritical comments that we hear coming from people who profess to be Labor people, in terms of the old Labor Party they could not raise their heads. 
What I want to point out and make perfectly clear is that while one solitary person remains unemployed other than through his own faultthrough misfortune, through circumstances beyond his control- I would safely wager that not one person on this side of the House would sleep comfortably at night. I believe that to be true. Hence it was so exasperating to hear someone like the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  say the other day that there was not one unionist on this side of the House. My goodness, from that moment onwards he fired off at man after man, people on this side who have had genuine union experience. The honourable member made a miscalculation. One of the terribly sad things about Australian Labor Party supporters is their constant miscalculation when it comes to evaluating the electorate. .  Mr Les  Johnson- You were in it for a long time. 
Exactly. When I was in the ALP it was a party of people who were dedicated; people who would be thrown out if they espoused the communist cause- not like you so called Labor people. You would not know what the Labor Party is. You would not have lasted 10 minutes in the Labor Party of the past. You have desecrated it. You have brought it down to the greatest ill repute of any party in the history of this nation, to such an extent that the Party was annihilated in the Northern Territory, the seat of Labor; it was annihilated in Broken Hill, the seat of Labor; and it was annihilated in the electorate of Kennedy. You remember the old slogan: 'When all else is lost, we still have Kennedy'. You do not have Kennedy any more, and you are not likely to get it back. 
The constant cry on which we base the whole of our strategy is inflation. If honourable members related inflation to all the circumstances surrounding the unemployment situation in this country they would realise that if tomorrow every person in this nation were employed and if inflation were allowed to continue the way it was going under the mismanagement of the people who now sit opposite, this strategy would all be utterly futile. I repeat that while one person is unemployed, no one who is a member of the 2 parties on my side of the House will rest well of a night. 
There are a number of matters which one would wish to deal with on this unique occasion when honourable members are permitted to speak on all sorts of things in the Budget debate. I realise, of course, that this nation is attempting to do what a previous non-Labor Government attempted in the United Kingdom, but we are doing it much more successfully and for one very clear reason, that is, that when the Heath Government was elected it was elected with almost a 50/50 majority. It did not have a decisive majority and there was always in the minds of the people of the United Kingdom the doubt that that Government might last or it might not last. But in respect of Australia there was no doubt in the mind of any one Australian or any international political observer because when we went to the polls last December the people who now sit opposite were swept into political oblivion where they will remain ad infinitum. That is where they belong. So we find the Australian people suddenly fired with a new pride, a new enthusiasm. This can be found wherever one goes today. 
We want a lot more done as soon as it can be done, but wherever one goes in this nation one finds that despite measures taken by the Government, unpopular though they be and perhaps inevitably creating unemployment in some quarters, the people of Australia will go along with this Government. Yet honourable members opposite condemn this Government for what it is doing. So there is a difference between the situation in Australia and what happened in the United Kingdom where a non-Labor Government went into office and went out of office just as promptly. There were 2 reasons for this. As I said, one was an indecisive victory, a very shallow victory, and the other was that anarchy was allowed to romp at large. There are anarchists in Britain and they thrive. Nothing very much is done to keep them in check, but the people of Australia have indicated very clearly they do not want anarchists in power in Australia. 
There must be thousands of unionists who will no longer tolerate the domination of so-called labor men, men who are there to feather their own nests, men who thrive on the power that goes with their positions- power which would be dissipated if they were not able from time to time to call on their men to lay down their tools, to go home and face all the difficulties which come with an unwarranted strike. I will say this and say it decisively- and again I think I speak for most of the people on this side of the House- if there is a cause for social justice, if there is a cause that merits a strike I would be the first one to commend to the men that they go on strike. I have done so not less than a dozen times in my life. That is the situation. The difference was that anarchy took over in Great Britain, and unfortunately it still exists. But in Australia the people woke up to it before it really became rampant and destroyed the people who were creating this anarchy. 
Notwithstanding the situation that does exist, notwithstanding the necessity for measures that have been proposed, there are a few matters on which I must dwell. The first that I must speak of is the beef industry. Admittedly there has been an extension of the assistance given by the Federal Government in conjunction with the States on a dollar for dollar basis. 
If If my memory serves me correctly, I think that $6. 8m has been made available for this year 1976-77 as carry on finance. We have discussed the matter with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  We know that the Government is probing much deeper into the beef cattle industry. It is critically necessary that that be done. 
Let me make one point perfectly clean Any assistance given to the beef cattle industry of this nation is not a handout. It is an investment in an industry which five or six year ago was earning more than the mining industry. It was the top industry of the nation. Assistance given will not be a handout. If an industry is fed the necessary fuel to let it carry on until it gets back to its previous prosperity, that represents an investment in the future of this nation. The point is that this has to be done if this industry is to survive. At the present time, the situation confronting many people in northern Australia involves bushfires which are sweeping that part of the country. The landholders have lost their fodder. Their land is no longer fit for grazing. Fortunately, however, most of them have been able to save their stock. One of the exigencies of being on the land is that from time to time an occupier must face up to the need for agistment. But the point here is that these people are in such a lamentable financial situation that they cannot even find the finance for the agistment of the stock. I use that purely as an example to illustrate just how difficult is the position. 
One matter I would stress is the absolute necessity, and I would say the great urgency, for the Government to review the petroleum differential subsidy as soon as it is able to do so. Perhaps I use the word 'subsidy' not advisedly because I am quite confident that if the Government were to examine this matter from the point of view of arriving at some arrangements with petroleum distributors or the fuel distributors- it is not just a matter of petroleum- there should be without a great deal of negotiation some means whereby a very fractional additional payment could be made for fuel sold in the densely populated areas which would flatten out the price. At the moment, country people are paying $1 a gallon for petrol, and in the far outback areas of this nation, they are paying up to $1.20 a gallon for it. I do not think that people should pay that when they have to face up to every other difficulty country people must face and when those very same people are producing the great wealth of this nation. I refer immediately to the mining industry, the beef cattle industry and the wool industry as being among the industries which are adversely affected by the high price for fuel. I am not being parochial in this matter. People who are six miles or up to 20 miles from the coast are faced with a very much higher price for petrol. I believe this matter should be examined. It does not depend upon the restoration of the previous prosperity of this nation. I am not setting my remarks in the scenario of 1970 or 1971. This is something which I feel, upon examination, could be done here and now. When we achieve that result, I see no reason why this principle of differential subsidy could not be applied to other commodities. 
Another matter which I think the Government should examine involves the creation of a small miners' tribunal. This was advocated in our policy and I am confident from my discussions with the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  on the matter that it will be attended to in the near future. However, I see some urgency in it because if one examines the whole spectrum of mining activities throughout the world, particularly in the United States of America, one finds that in the aggregate a great number of small mining leases are being operated. When I refer to small mining leases, I am not talking about the individual gouger. I think that the gouger himself would be the first to admit that it is extremely difficult for him to get off the ground these days. I am referring to the small companies that have resulted from the activities of the individual gouger. They should receive sufficient assistance to bring them into production. The aggregate of that production is a very substantial industry indeed as has been discovered in the United States. I look to the Government to carry into effect what was a plank in our platform, namely, the creation of a small miners' tribunal- a special organisation to assist the small mining communities. 
Another matter that affects people throughout Australia- people in areas away from the capital cities- is that it is becoming almost impossible for people to afford an air ticket. I am not referring so much to the Sydney-Melbourne route but more to the other air routes throughout Australia on which one of the great disadvantages is that most people cannot afford an air ticket, and economy class travel is not available. I would ask the Government to give some future to the commuter airlines. There are many such airlines serving the length and breadth of this nation. I notice that there are not many Labor Party members in the chamber tonight. I suppose that they are enjoying the hospitality at the reception tonight. Normally, honourable members opposite would interject from their places, screaming out about members of the National Country Party representing galahs and trees. Fortunately, they are not in the chamber tonight and we are not hearing that sort of interjection. But that is not what is involved. These commuter air services, or branch air services, are extremely important to our capital cities. They serve the arterial airlines which feed eventually into our capital cities. These airlines are getting to the point where they cannot carry on. Hence, I ask the Government, as soon as it is economically possible, to create with all urgency a situation in which the airlines may see that they have a stable future- not just a subsidy for 12 months and after that the end of the line or the end of a service that is helping to sustain industries which are critical for the future of this nation. That is one more point I would like put in the little black book by the Government. When it is able to do so, I hope that it will move very promptly to look at the matter. 
Turning to the matter of water resources, it is pleasing to note that at a time when the Government has quite clearly indicated that it cannot become involved in grandiose schemes as it would wish to do in some cases, there is still an amount of $6.7m made available for water resources investigations and so on in the Budget. I am not being parochial when I speak of one particular project, the Lake Julius Dam in northwestern Queensland. That water supply project sustains the largest mining complex of its kind in the world- the Mount Isa operation. In addition, it will provide water for other projects which are beginning to emerge in that part of the world. Even with the new boost and the new morale that we have fostered in this industry, there is still a feeling of depression to such an extent that five or six days ago the  President  of Mount Isa Mines Limited, in addressing a meeting in Mount Isa pointed out very emphatically that Mount Isa Mines Limited was not intending to expand its operations in the near future or at any time in the foreseeable future. It must be depressing for Australia to know that its largest mining complex has reached the point where it cannot see any further room for expansion in the future. It becomes critically necessary that other mining leases, other operations and other potential Mount Isas should be given the encouragement to open up in areas where they presently exist. We know that in those areas there are leases which could be developed and opened up. But such developments would require water and plenty of it. That water can be provided and in turn it would provide an inflow of a huge volume of funds to the Treasury of this nation. This would be one more thing to be placed in the little black book. The Queensland Government was able to give hundreds of thousands of dollars to this project. I regret to say that so far no Federal government has given more than a substantial loan. That loan was given by the McMahon Government. Of course, the Labor Government gave us nothing and that was to be expected. I say to this Government that surely $ 1 m could be given to that project as soon as the Government is able to do so. 
There is another consideration in regard to the further development of leases in the north-west and that is that the opening up of further leases in that area could well provide the lifeblood to sustain the area and give new hope to the area represented by my friend, who is making a tremendous impact as a politician. I refer to the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige).  No one has tried or has sapped the brains of everyone in this nation to such an extent to try to find an answer to the question of keeping the Mount Morgan mines a going proposition. That could be well and truly tied up with the sustaining of the economy of that water project in the north-west of Queensland. This Government has performed an almost unbelievable task in mending the ruins that were left by the Labor Government. Any person in this nation who has any sense of responsibility acknowledges this and goes along with the Government. Hence I have the utmost enthusiasm when I say I thoroughly support the Budget. I ask the people in this House- there does not seem to be anyone on the Labor side in the chamber, so I ask my Party- to send the Opposition's amendment to where it belongs and that is, into the past. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! the honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for National Resources. Is the Minister aware of an announcement that an Australian company has won a contract to prospect for uranium in Iran? Can the Minister give the House details of this matter? 

 -Mr Chairman, if I appear to be straining at the leash, that is exactly the situation. I thank the Opposition for the courtesy of allowing me to speak first in this debate. The estimates this year for the Department of Foreign Affairs total $432,127,000. It is interesting to note that of that amount, a special allocation of $238m is being made to Papua New Guinea. Perhaps we can put that allocation in the category of overseas aid, although I think we would agree that it comes into a very special category. Honourable members will note the significance of the contribution that is being made to Papua New Guinea, and I will return to that shortly. 
Before proceeding any further I should like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  I think that he has done an outstanding job in the short time that he has had the responsibility for this portfolio. He has at all times examined the pressures which have arisen, particularly in relation to the Indonesian situation. He has tried to develop with the United States of America a relationship which would revive the splendid understanding that we had with that country in past years. He has examined the position in relation to the various other activities which have been undertaken during what have been extremely difficult times. As I say, I pay a tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that he has done an impeccable job. 
I think that when we examine international relations generally we can say that they are at present almost in a state of suspended animation, if I might put it that way. I think the people of most nations, particularly we people in the South East Asian area, appreciate the fact that there could be some change in international relations as a result of the Presidential election in the United States. I think that we who have the responsibility to examine these matters perhaps a little more closely than other people might do and to analyse the situation- I speak as  chairman  of the Government parties' foreign affairs committeerather feel that there will not be a very significant difference in international relations whatever the result of the Presidential election. I say this although it has been reported that Jimmy Carter has indicated that if he wins the election the allocations for overseas aid, if I may call it that although I would prefer to call it United States overseas involvement, will possibly be reduced by some billions of dollars. Immediately we wonder whether that would involve the South East Asian area. We might well ask ourselves whether it would mean that the United States would perhaps consider taking less of an interest in this part of the world. By that I do not mean so much Australia itself, because I rather feel that all the indications suggest that our relationship with the United States, our understanding with the United States and- let us face it, let us not beat about the bush- our dependence on the United States, will not be affected greatly, no matter who wins the Presidential election. However, it is something which we will watch and which will cause us a little apprehension. 
In observing the general situation as it more particularly affects Australia, we look at areas such as southern Africa and the Indian Ocean. There have been what might be called conflicting opinions about Russian intrusion into this area. Some people like to call it a threat. Some people like to refer to the possibilities of additional pressures being aroused. This is not a new thing. I can remember speaking in this chamber 5 years ago when the Russians were beginning to make their influence felt more particularly in the Malaysian Peninsula by establishing formal relationships and doing the sorts of things that could well be done by one country or another in Papua New Guinea. That was the beginning. There was infiltration through trade, closer diplomatic relations and so on. Then gradually came the hardware. How does one evaluate such things? It is a matter of some opinion, but the cold, hard fact is that there is a very substantial and significant Russian influence in the Indian Ocean area. 
Let us return to the subject of Papua New Guinea. Here we have something that could have far more effect upon the future of this nation. I say again that we are contributing $228m in the 1976-77 financial year to the assistance of the maintenance of Papua New Guinea as an independent nation. One might well ask: What is being contributed in one way or another by other nations? It would be interesting to examine that question. There is one very obvious fact relating to Papua New Guinea and that is that if Bougainville should secede a very precarious and sensitive situation would arise because the only real and substantial source of income of that nation would suddenly disappear. It is becoming more of a possibility every day. 
I do not think that the Bougainvillians will ever adopt in their hearts and minds the general attitude towards Papua New Guinea that they are part of it. They have never been a part of it ethnically and I doubt very much whether they will ever be a part of it in a patriotic allegiance sense. In fact, I believe that the situation will be quite the reverse. We who have visited the area and have talked with the people for hour after hour, gone into their villages and inspected the mining areas have come away with the impression that they consider themselves to be a people apart. I doubt whether that situation will ever change. 
Should their feelings grow to the point where they secede from Papua New Guinea a very sensitive and delicate situation would arise in Papua New Guinea because that nation would quite suddenly find that it has been deprived of its only source of economic vitality, that is, the income that it derives from the huge copper project on Bougainville. What would happen then? It would be open season for any nation which cared to pressurise that country through monetary influence. I suggest that this is already being done by a number of countries. 
During my term as Minister for the Army I had cause to have a series of discussions with the man who is now Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. At that time no-one expected independence to come about in Papua New Guinea as early as it did. One might well question just what were the genuine reactions of people like Michael Somare when that independence was almost thrust upon them. There was one thought that he never failed to express and that was that should independence come about he would hope that in matters of defence and foreign affairs we would still be considerably involved in that country. 
I often wonder whether his attitude is still the same. Perhaps it is. I am inclined to think that that is the case because it would appear that he and our very splendid Minister for Foreign Affairs seem to have an understanding and seem to get along famously. That goes for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as well. We should face up to the fact not with apprehension but with at least some realistic understanding of the possibilities that should the rather grim situation arise where Papua New Guinea is deprived of its only form of financial vitality it could become the base for people who might like to buy in. So therein lies a very clear threat. 
I have but a minute of speaking time left. I would like to dwell very briefly on the situation in the Middle East. I consider that the situation in the Lebanon has been greatly underestimated by the United Nations and the world generally. The Lebanon is the meeting place of the east and west. Regardless of whether it is admitted, it is one area in which there could be consultation, and in which there was a shading of one opinion into another. I think this conflict was created by design. 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. He is no doubt aware of developments in Thailand, resulting in a coup by the Minister for Defence in that country. Will he indicate whether this has any special significance for Australia? Will he assure the House that he will not attempt to emulate the Thai Minister for Defence and stage such a coup? 
-I must briefly impose a few ideas in this debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  remarks that the Australian Council of Local Government is a nebulous body which is not terribly well known to members of the House. It is extremely well known to honourable members interested in local government. Briefly I might point out that the Australian Council is the very essense of representation from the grass roots of local government because the local government members on the Australian Council are in turn appointed by the State governing body. For instance, if I might use my own State as an example, the State body is the Queensland Local Government Association. It appoints one member to the Australian Council. This happens in each State and finally the Australian Council has six or seven members. So, in effect, if it does have authority to appoint 6 representatives, its members have been appointed to the highest possible authority because they are the parent body, the supreme body, the supreme voice of local government in the country. I do not agree with the Leader of the Opposition. If the Australian Council has that authority it has it by the purest democratic means. 
-I can assure honourable members that I do not propose to take very much of the time of the House in dealing with a Bill that was introduced purely to bring validity to a situation that was just a little dubious. It is purely a machinery Bill to bring the matter into line and to make sure that it is absolutely valid. But this does give me the opportunity to comment on the Government's action in restoring the 3 cadet systems. I think the whole of this nation was acutely aware of the action of the previous Government, in accordance with its general attitude towards the defence of this country, in cutting out the cadet system. The previous Government played up the suggestion that this system was encouraging jingoism, that it was making our young people militaristic, and so on. It never referred to the fact that the substance of our cadet system was to put into young men a sense of responsibility, of awareness of the necessity to defend this nation- after all, who would be ashamed of that- a sense of discipline, adventure training and so on. It is to the credit of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  that he reintroduced the cadet system without delay. He said he would do it and he did it. We now have it as a going concern. 
I must say that I personally derived a tremendous amount of pleasure when I saw on television the other night the first of the cadet camps which have been held since we restored this system. I think that an even greater and more efficient system of cadet training is going to emerge from the reintroduction of the cadet system. That is all I have to say in regard to the Bill, except to indicate that the Minister has displayed his analytical approach to these matters. A Minister of less ability, less discernment and less dedication might have let the possible invalidity of this Bill go undiscovered. I commend the Bill and I commend the Minister. 
-Someone from the Opposition said 'Answer that'. There are one or two answers I would like to make. The first is in regard to the claim that we are failing to spend huge amounts of money on the arts generally. The various remarks that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  are indicative of just how mean we have been. I suppose it is extremely easy to be generous with huge amounts of money, not to give a damn where they come from and not to be terribly concerned about building up a deficit that is approaching something like $6,000m and, in the process, produce some pretty crummy films. I heard a number of people being interviewed on  Four Corners-   think that was the program- in relation to the future of the film industry. As one who has for a fair part of my life been associated with this industry I was rather staggered to hear at least one producer say that he - 
You are not entirely right, old boy. I happen to be associated with 5 drive-in theatres and a few other odds and ends. The honourable member for Blaxland is a very smart fellow. In fact he is so smart that he ridicules people from the back blocks and waffles about wool and God knows what when he would need a compass to cross Copper Mine Creek. He would not know where it was. I can immediately think of one or two interesting television series which could be brought into existence. Let us start off with  Stepdown and Son.  I think this would make an excellent story. If we are not satisfied with that, I suggest we cast our memory back to some of the wonderful characters who have passed through this House. I immediately think of Fred Daly. We could produce another epic called  Gone with His Wind,  and so on. There is no scarcity of productions if we look to the Opposition side of the House. Unfortunately, the cast has diminished in number. 
You are a racist. Repeat that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, let me make a point it I may. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I merely point out to you that here is a man whose leader got up the other day and spoke about how terribly distressed he was about the Lebanese. You hear this racist comment from this pack of hypocrities. They are hypocrites of the worst type. They ask people on this side of the House - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I ask which remark I have to withdraw? 
I withdraw that remark. I ask, respectfully, if we do not have double standards here: What about his remark? 
If this man wants to get personal - 
If I offended the Chair in that manner I most humbly apologise.'  Mr Deputy Speaker,  no one has greater respect than I have for your services to this House. But no one has greater disrespect for a member of this House than I have for the honourable member for Hunter. On the  Four Corners  series to which I was referring we had an interview with the producer of the film referred to by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  Picnic at Hanging Rock.  One can examine that film from any point of view. It is something of which all Australians can be well proud. By any standard whatsoever, it is a splendid picture and it will earn big money overseas. There was much talk about the discouragement of our local artists. That goes back an awfully long way. It takes two to tango, by the way, and it has been quite obvious that the artists who have made good overseas have, by their own verdict, stayed overseas. I think of Rolfe Harris, Joan Sutherland and Robert Helpman. It was their verdict that they should stay overseas. They found greater opportunities which could never be offered in our lifetime in this country. 
I think it about the standard which the honourable member should appreciate. We have a tremendous opportunity in this country to produce films of the highest possible standards. There are 2 elements which go to make great films. First of all, there is the ability to produce great films. I think we have that now. I spoke on this subject in this House 2 years ago and we did not have that ability then. I think this ability, this almost genius, has emerged. The second element is consistantly good light which we have in most parts of Australia. We certainly have the scenarios. We have locales of the highest possible standard, whether it be on sea or land. We have tremendous opportunities to produce really great films. But if we talk about producing 5 films a year we are talking about something which is pretty scrubby and of an inferior quality. I say that it would be better for the Australian film industry to concentrate on a film such as  Picnic at Hanging Rock  or something of a similar standard. We should produce one of those a year instead of talking about producing these crummy little  Alvin Purple  type films. 
Some of the highly publicised series on television, such as  No. 96, The Box  and so on, are little double bed productions, if I might call them that. They are little indoor types of films which may appeal to some people. But I think with the tremendous opportunities in Australia it is high time we gave up the double bed for the double barrel. By that I mean that we can produce a series like  Rush,  which was tremendously popular. In fact, it was of extreme disappointment to most Australians when it was learnt that the second series would at least be delayed. I say to the Government that if it can get ahead and produce another series such as  Rush,  the industry will make its impact felt on an international scale. That is my conrtibution to the debate. It is in relation to the production of good films. I again stress I am speaking generally,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  so please do not censure me- that there is a great element of hypocrisy in what is left in the ragged remnants of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite sit down and talk about the millions of dollars they once spent on the arts, in the film industry and in other ways generally. But they have squandered tens of hundreds of millions of dollars in absolutely frivolous ways. I appeal to the industry to go for quality rather than quantity. 
-The moneys provided in this Budget for defence - $2,036,64 1,000-reflect the tenacity of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  If we add to that the fact that he was able to announce that over the next 3 years $ 12,000m will be available for expenditure on defence, we will understand that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  chose this man to be the Minister for Defence, he evaluated not only his capacity and integrity but also his tenacity. 1 think that the Prime Minister, who held this portfolio himself, realised the extreme difficulties in this area and that the Minister was taking over a department which in many respects- this is no reflection on the people in the department- was in effect in a shambles because of the discouragement under the previous Government. Naturally, I will speak highly of my Minister because he merits such .praise. But it is interesting to note that a writer in this month 's edition of the  Pacific Defence Reporter  states, among many other complimentary things, regarding the Minister: 
As it is,  Mr Killen  is emerging stronger and stronger within the portfolio, with any showiness of style more than offset by a widespread and growing trust and respect for him from within the Services. 
That one comment alone indicates that within the Services there is a restoration of morale and respect for what the Services stand for. Honourable members each have 10 minutes to speak in this debate. How can we possibly hope to deal with the all important matter of defence in that time? However, one point I should stress, and it is my responsibility to bring it before the Australian people, is the tremendous importance of having a defence capability and I should explain what that capability stands for. I will expand that a little further. I hope that sinks into the younger people who over the last three of four years have been encouraged to have nothing but contempt for anything that may be even suggestive or patriotism, and I use the word without shame and with an awareness that this is a magnificent country. Unless we are prepared to build up a realistic defence capacity, no other country in the world is likely to look in our direction - 
Let me repeat what the honourable member said. He interjected and said: 'Against whom- the Vikings?'. In other words, he is projecting the technique that has been used with some effect by members of the Australian Labor Party. I understood that honourable members opposite still use that title for their party; shame on them. As soon as a threat is mentioned, honourable members opposite throw out a contemptible comment such as the one we just heard, 'Against whom- the Vikings?'. I listened to the shadow Minister for defence, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I commend him for his low key address to the chamber. He did not attempt at any time to scream forth as the Minister in the previous Government did that there would be no threat to Australia for 5, 10 or 15 years. Honourable members opposite have given away that line because the Australian people found it unacceptable. 
Let us look for a moment at the defence situation as it is seen by people whose business it is to know the requirements for a realistic force to defend this country. Of course, at first glance it would appear to be an insoluble proposition with our huge coastline, our huge land mass and so on. But there is the possibility that we can, within a short space of time or a comparatively short space of time, with the new spirit in the various defence forces build up a capacity to enable us to hang on until a powerful ally could come to our assistance. One line of thought is that we would need a capacity to hold on for up to 6 months. Of course, that can be disputed. One might well ask: Could we hang on for that length of time if we were under threat, whatever that threat may be? It may be the threat of infiltration, invasion, all out attack or a force establishing itself and then expanding into this country. Those who have contemplated this proposition visualise this nation having from six to ten infantry divisions or equivalent lower formations. When we think of infantry divisions, this Government is not for one moment setting aside the concept of new generation warfare. In other words, we do not contemplate six to ten footslogging divisions. We contemplate divisions which would have the supporting forces of all the units which would include new generation warfare missiles and so on. 
I wish to quote some further facts in relation to the defence of our coastline which have been compiled by people who once again have thought about these things with a sense of responsibility and reality. I think that is the important thing. They deal with the reality of defending this country with a holding on operation until the forces of a country powerful enough to assist us arrive. It has been estimated that we would require 40 missile boats. The defence planners have been thinking in terms of a craft similar to that used by the Israeli forces in the defence of their very limited coastline. It is debatable whether a craft of that nature could be adapted to be precisely suitable to our situation. This is the sort of defence that has been visualised. As I have said, I can merely touch briefly on or scratch the suface of this subject. But obviously, the many airports scattered throughout this country should be upgraded at least to a point where they can handle the Hercules and Caribou aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
I turn to deal with our road system. Because of the policy introduced by this Government in relation to beef roads, we have at least some sort of road system now that would be immensely valuable in the time of an emergency. But at present it is totally inadequate. Again, the advice of the people who study these things is that we would require many more miles of highway traversing this country, more particularly from east to west. We have a program of national highways to run from north to south. But at the moment, we need something more suitable to travel from east to west. We would need to look at the establishment of bases for the Royal Australian Air Force. They exist now at Townsville, Amberley, Williamstown, Richmond, Wagga, Laverton, Sale and Edinburgh. But the suggestion has been made that there should be greater development of Air Force bases, particularly in inland Queensland and inland New South Wales. It is estimated that to supplement a force required we would need six to twelve tankers.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I find that already I am running out of time. It is quite unrealistic to try to debate this question during the Committee debate on the Estimates. However, may I say this in conclusion? Under this Minister at least we have debated the subject of defence in this place. We know that he is preparing a White Paper and that there will be a full-scale debate on the defence of this country for the first time in many years since the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government went out of office. We realise that without a defence capacity nothing else would matter very much. 
-Does the Minister for Defence consider the recent coup in Thailand of any special significance to the defence situation in South East Asia and adjacent areas or to any defence agreements or arrangements which we may have with our South East Asian neighbours? 
-The Narcotics Drugs Amendment Bill proposes to transfer certain responsibilities to the Department of Health, those responsibilities relating in all cases to licit drugs. My purpose in speaking for a few minutes is to express the hope that the Bureau of Narcotics and the Minister foi* Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  perhaps will now be permitted to devote even greater effort to dealing with the illicit drugs. There is one most dangerous aspect of the attitude towards drugs at the moment. Unfortunately, it is promulgated by people in positions of responsibility. For instance, with the insanity abroad in Queensland at the moment, we may even see the full moon affect those who legislate to a point at which possibly they will distribute marihuana. 
Let me state one or two facts. These are facts. They are not based on emotion. They are based on experience over a period of the last 6 to 8 years during which I have had an opportunity of seeing something of the drug scene, not only in this country but also, for a period of 3 months, in the city of New York. It is perfectly obvious. Honourable members can ask anyone who is a drug addict, or who has been one, about the position and they will be told: Marihuana is not addictive in that your body screams for it in a physical sense. However, what it does is to bring about an apathy because its user is not getting the lift that marihuana does bring. As my friend, the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  pointed out so explicitly, that newspaper headline to which he referred has aroused more comment around the House and elsewhere than any newspaper report that has appeared for a long time. 
I would make a statement with complete conviction, although again I take the risk of incurring ridicule by that outstanding and magnificent newspaper,  Nation Review.  God help me if it ever praises me. The kiss of death would be given in a third dimensional way. The point is that there is always the possibility of graduation to the heavy drugs by anyone who has used marihuana. It will be said: 'OK, the statistics show that 90 per cent'- I am pulling this figure out of the air- 'of those who have been using marihuana graduate to the heavy drugs'. However, it may be said also that that is 90 per cent of about 5 per cent. That is a very weak sort of an argument. The fact is that of that S per cent who used marihuana, 90 per cent did go on to use heroin. 
I said that I pulled that figure out of the air. My friend, who is distinguished in many areas, apparently has not a great capability in mathematics. I wish to refer to a recent finding by the narcotics section of the World Health Organisation. If this is not true, the World Health Organisation might as well be disbanded. I believe that its narcotics section operates on statistics from all parts of the world. It contains some of the world s greatest expertise. It has now been shown conclusively that the habitual- let me make that clear- smoking of marihuana has some very clear side effects. One of these is that women's reproductive organs are affected to a point at which monstrosities can be produced. The reproduction facilities in young men are limited to a point at which there are no further facilities. Thus, a young man can take his choice as to what his recreations will be. I can assure honourable members that these findings have been proved fairly conclusively. However, this is the appalling side effect: It has been proved conclusively that there is a real possibility of the creation of cancer cells. 
The sad part about this- it has been perfectly projected in the House today- is that honourable members opposite some day will have to face the condemnation of the people because they have accepted the proposition that marihuana is harmless. Let them go and explain their attitude to the father of that young boy mentioned in the newspaper article. Let the womenfolk strongly associated with the Australian Labor Party who time and again promulgate that marihuana use is harmless tell that to the father of that lad whose drug problems started with marihuana. Let them tell the World Health Organisation it is a lot of hogwash that there is the remotest possibility of cancer cells being created. While these dangers of the drug pusher exist, these men and women in public life who promulgate the smoking of marihuana should be put away for the rest of their lives. That may sound like a very broad statement. If honourable members have seen what I have seen of the drug scene- I wish I had more time to expose it in the House- they would be entitled to become a little hot under the collar in relation to these matters. 
I will conclude my remarks as I began. I would hope that the Minister and his splendid and superb Bureau of Narcotics- I have seen its officers in action- now that the responsibilities for controlling licit drugs have been taken away from the Department, will to an even greater extent do everything in their power to apprehend these vicious criminals who are responsible for the wrecking of lives and the creation of half people. These people- the pushers primarily- must be put where they belong. They should be put in gaol for life. If there is capital punishment iri any overseas country concerned, good luck to them. They can take the extreme penalty. Naturally, we all support the Bill. We hope that with this new arrangement there will be greater power and muscle in the hands of the Minister and his Department. 
-When this White Paper was presented to the House it was almost like going into a new era in our history because there had been very little debate recently on the subject of defence. It has been many years since we have seen a White Paper, Green Paper or any other paper presented to the House on defence. Hence it was gratifying and relieving to the great bulk of Australians to learn, firstly, that a White Paper had been tabled and, secondly, that those who prepared the White Paper had gone about the subject in a businesslike manner and a manner of extreme responsibility to the nation and had produced a quality document. I wish to comment on one or two matters relating generally to the White Paper. Firstly, there was no witch-hunt. I think that was greatly appreciated by the House generally. There were no recriminations. I commend the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for this aspect of the White Paper. While on the subject of commendations may I say that the Minister and his civilian and uniformed staff have done a magnificent job in producing such an analysis of the subject of defence as it applies to this nation. 
One of the first points that strikes one upon looking at the White Paper is that the matter of self reliance is stressed. If one were to compare our situation now with what it was, say, 10, 12 or even 15 years ago I suppose one would see that there has been a dramatic change. That change is based on 2 matters. The first is that we no longer think in terms of forward defence. We no longer think of fighting an enemy 1000 or 10 000 miles away. We know now that any engagement that may take place or any emergency that might be created if there were a threat to this continent would be in the country itself. Hence we have a completely different aspect and concept of defence. This is based very greatly on the matter of self reliance. Various theories have been offered and submitted as to how long we would have to hold this country before we would receive the assistance of a powerful ally. The period has varied from one month to 6 months. All sorts of opinions have been offered on that matter. 
However, one or two facts have emerged. I refer firstly to the recent operation which was called Kangaroo II. One of the lessons learned from that operation, as the Minister pointed out not so very long ago in answer to a question in this House, was that when it comes to professionalism in the three branches of our Services we do not have to play second fiddle to any country in the world. This evidence came out very clearly in the Kangaroo II exercise. There were one or two aspects of this operation that appealed to those of us who had the privilege of being involved, to some extent at least. One was the manner in which the joint operations worked out. It was quite splendid. I think that we can now accept that concept. The other was the performance by the field hospital. I would like to pay particular tribute to the field hospital. I think that its contribution to the operations, which were indicative of the situation that would exist in the case of an emergency, were absolutely superb. I would say that it was at least equal if not superior to any similar operation of its kind in the world. 
It is interesting to note the accent which this Government has put on defence. People say that one should look to the pocket when you want to see the strength. In the 5 years 1976-77 to 1980-81 estimated expenditure will be $ 12,000m. No doubt the House will recall that when the Minister for Defence made his statement to the House after the Budget he pointed out that he had secured this sum of $ 12,000m and said that it would be in terms of real money. That is another aspect which should be considered. 
I notice that in the White Paper there is an accent on the fact that ground forces have to be sustained over long distances. I have noticed, in consultation with the people who study these matters, that the authorities are quite concerned about transport, about the roads which would make possible the sort of transportation that becomes necessary in times of an emergency. It was stressed that the present road system would be quite inadequate. It was said that existing highways such as the Flinders Highway and the Stuart Highway would have to be brought up to a much higher standard if they are to stand up to the sort of transport that they would be required to carry. No doubt in future considerations this matter will be taken into account. 
Another point of view preferred around the country at the moment is the necessity for additional air bases. The matter of additional air bases was mentioned in one of the submissions made to me and the group I had the privilege to serve with on the Government parties defence committee. It is rather appalling to note that at present we have an air base in Townsville with limited capabilities and that we have another base with perhaps somewhat greater capability at Amberley. Then we have a huge vacuum until we get to Darwin. I am sure that as time goes by this situation will be remedied. There is also the matter of the dispersal of ordnance and the sustenance of an army or an air force as well as our naval forces to cover our coastal areas. We must think of the dispersal of our ordinance and our logistics. When we consider the present situation it leaves a lot to be desired. 
Technology is one matter that is stressed in the White Paper. It points out that although we may consider the present concept of defence and may work out all sorts of approaches to our strategy, all these things could become obsolete in future warfare. This argument could be applied time and again. Today we have the Leopard tank but the Swedish tank is regarded as having tremendous capability. The Swedish tank may be camouflaged more easily because it has a lower turret and so on. One could go on for ever with that argument. I would say, as one who had a little to do with the examination, trial and eventual order of the Leopard tanks, of which I think we will have 101, that they will be a force to be reckoned with. It was gratifying to note that the Minister acted expeditiously to bring forward the delivery of these Leopard tanks. As far as I know, many of them already have been unloaded and are in operation in this country. 
Turning to advances in technology, we have been told of the bomb which can sink an aircraft carrier costing $ 1,000m. We have to give serious consideration to our capability, having regard to our financial and technical resources, of playing an effective part in new generation warfare. The White Paper deals specifically with this subject and therefore is a fairly complete document. 
The subject of the deployment of our forces brings me to the question of manpower. One of the things in the White Paper that I found particularly gratifying was the accent again given to the Army Reserve or, as we knew it, the Citizen Military Forces. I know from my discussions with the Minister that he regards the Army Reserve of particular significance. I was at a function yesterday and was exhilarated to observe the reaction of the Minister's senior officers to this matter. When one examines the history of the wars in which this country regrettably has been involved it is quite easy to discern that much of the fame, if I might use that word, much of the magnificent reputation earned by Australian soldiers was earned by the Army Reserves or whatever they might have been called in those days. Hence the Army Reserve is an extremely important body when considering our future defence. I refer not only to the Army Reserve but also to the Navy and Air Force reserves. It is gratifying to know that the Minister does have this matter m mind. 
Turning now to the capacity, capability and size of that Army, I suppose that if we had unlimited manpower and unlimited finance we possibly would think in terms of 10 divisions as one well known professional officer stated. Well, we would like to think in terms of 10 divisions but what we do think of is a new balance. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stressed this matter yesterday in addressing the function I referred to. He pointed out that although we do not want to reduce our manpower, that we want it to reach the strength we desire so that we can deal with any emergency we have, we also have to think of weaponry in a new generation of world warfare and the necessity to protect our coastline by means of the technology available to us. I was interviewed recently about one aspect of the Kangaroo II exercise in my part of the world. A young reporter asked me how we could possibly defend a country like this. I suppose one could look at the matter in that way if we are going to be faced with some great invading force but as the White Paper points out threats of wars and invasion do not just happen overnight. Warning lights go on and we are able to take the necessary steps for our defence. 
I would like to conclude on what I think is an extremely important note. The committee which I have the privilege of chairing regards this matter very seriously and hence we are having this debate. I suppose if we examine the time allotted to this debate and related it to the time available for other Bills we have had a fairly generous bite of the apple but the important thing is that we have to send out a message to this nation, loud and clear, that the responsibility for the security and defence of this country, and dealing adequately with it, falls on its citizens. It is gratifying to note that there is a growing awareness of this fact. I am sure honourable members on both sides of the House would agree that every member of this House has to get across to the Australian public the message that each and every one of them is involved in our security. The economic prosperity and stability of this country would be pretty worthless if we were not in a position to defend it adequately and did not have the desire to defend it adequately. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bryant)  adjourned. 
Will the Minister for Post and Telecommunications indicate what plans exist for the installation of television in areas of the Kennedy electorate and other similar areas throughout Australia which do not have this amenity or much else to make life easier? Would he not agree that the areas involved provide for this nation a great part of its overseas earnings because of the industries they sustain? 
Why don't you go and play with a yo-yo or something. Those industries are beef, sheep and mining. 
I entered the chamber during the latter part of the address of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  If I interpret his remarks correctly, I commend him for some of the views that he expressed. I think that his attitude is shared by honourable members on both sides of the House. A particular aspect of this argument is stimulated not by conservationists generally but by a small group which will stimulate argument whenever the security or stability of this country is at stake. Let me refer as an example to  Dr Camilleri.  The last time we heard of this gentleman he was tearing around the Northern Territory. He knew well that what he was agitating for was almost an accomplished fact. He did not care which party was in government; he levelled his unfounded criticism at the government of the day. He levelled unfounded criticism at the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. This man was tearing around the country saying that the Government was doing absolutely nothing about the health and welfare of Aboriginal children. He is adopting the same attitude in the alleged dispute about whether we should export uranium. 
In addition to this nit-wit we find the churches buying into the argument. I include my own church. Morality is supposed to be the business of the churches; but not the morality of whether we should export uranium ore. Let the churches take a close look at the State of South Australia to see some of the licence abroad there. Why do the churches not comment on this? Some of the archbishops and other people around the country should look after their own business and stay out of such affairs as this. Last night on  Monday Conference  an interesting comment was made about  Dr Camilleri.  An argument was described as garbage. One  speaker  said to him: 'I think that you are an absolute expert on garbage.' That could apply also some of these churchmen. 
Let us look at the huge wealth of uranium ore that exists in this country. Australia has precisely 30 per cent of the known deposits of uranium ore in the world today. In the Northern Territory at Ranger 1 there are 100 700 tonnes of reserves; at Jabiluka, which is owned by Pancontinental Mining Ltd, there are 104 325 tonnes of reserves; at Nabarlek, which is a comparatively small deposit, there are 9100 tonnes; at Koongara there are 15 422 tonnes. Then we come to the prize State of the CommonwealthQueensland. At Mary Kathleen there are 7000 tonnes of reserves. I will have a little more to say about Mary Kathleen in a moment because it is right on my doorstep. It is one of the gems of the great Kennedy electorate. We have many gems. At Yeelirrie in Western Australia, which is owned by the Western Mining Corporation Ltd, there are 46 266 tonnes of reserves. We find that South Australia, which has some uranium ore apart from its activated philosophies, has 15 875 tonnes. All these represent about 30 per cent of the known uranium deposits in the world. We are not exporting or treating one ounce, but 70 per cent of the deposits are being treated elsewhere. Hence we should not go along with this unconvincing sentimentalist humbug about this product falling into the hands of terrorists who will wipe out half the world 's population because they already have 70 per cent of the world's known deposits that they can work on and would not have a great deal of difficulty in getting some of those deposits if they wanted to drop little atom bombs here, there and everywhere to blow up half the world 's population. This is garbage, which seems to be the 'in' word when we talk about the arguments of the alleged conservationists. Where do we find these conservationists? They are everywhere, like a germ on the community. The most difficult problem we have - 
It is the ratbag fringe of conservationists. I am a conservationist; I want to conserve things too. There are 300 000 conservationists in Australia so a lot of politicians shimmy and shake when they think of the conservationists' vote, but what they do not understand is that about 75 per cent of those 300 000 would not touch this lunatic fringe, would not come into contact with them. As to the other 75 per cent, your votes are safe because they will vote responsibly and well. So I say to those who shimmy and shake about the conservationist lobby: Forget it, because it is not an issue. 
However, there is an issue that is of importance, and I come back to the Mary Kathleen mine. I have had considerable experience with the union movement and there are at least 6 unions involved in the Mary Kathleen operations. They are fully united in their resolve not to be adversely affected by the decisions made by the Trades Hall in Brisbane, by those gentlemen who enjoy the luxury of safe and comfortable jobs from which they foment union strikes from time to time. I am not a union basher and I can never be accused of being one. I do not know whether these men went out on strike last Thursday, but it struck me that if those Trades Hall officials went to Mary Kathleen they would be well advised not to waste money on a return ticket because their chances of getting out of Mary Kathleen alive would be very remote. The 6 unions involved there have said that if those officials attempted to get on the lease they would block the highway. They have some pretty good rifles and shot guns and can use them on those persons who are coming here to try to deprive them of their livelihood to suit the extreme views of the ratbag element of conservationists'. So here is a practical example of what decent thinking unionists can do and how they can become united. I will be up there on Thursday taking with me a gentleman who is not very well known to all of you. He is a fellow named Joh Bielke.Pettersen. Honourable members may say that maybe we also will not get off the lease alive. 
The fact is that 70 per cent of the world's uranium ore is being worked and is providing jobs for hundreds of thousands of nonAustralians. We have a group of people resisting with every bit of the organisational power they have- and strangely they have sufficient funds to permit them to do this- the mining of an ore which can provide jobs. It has been calculated coolly and logically that directly and indirectly 10 000 people would go into employment as soon as these major lease began to operate. Regrettably one or two people are killed each year in mining accidents in my city of Mount Isa, but these are the hazards of the mining occupation. Every miner, whether he works underground, in an open cut, or whatever is his occupation, has a hazardous and dangerous job. I do not have to make speeches to win votes- I do pretty well in the mining areas- but every one of those men should be highly paid, paid in keeping with the dangerous occupation they follow. I stress the question: What is our major consideration? Should we be guided by the theories of the ratbag element of the conservation movement and keep these men out of work? Never. 
Honourable members have talked about the safeguards mentioned in the Fox report. With all due respect to  Mr Justice  Fox, we never required that inquiry to be aware of the safeguards that must be applied in the mining and export of uranium ore. Ask any common worker, any unionist, any executive in the mining companies, anyone in the community involved, even the smallest child, and he can tell you that the safeguards required for the mining of uranium are well known and that we did not require a costly report to bring them to our notice. It is rather strange that the same group of people will always be active, will always come forward and will always get dramatically interested and demonstrate when anything which provides security for this country or something which is of major concern to our security is being argued. They are always there. A great many of them are nothing but traitors. They are traitors to our country and traitors to the work force in this nation and to every thing we hold dear. So I hope, and there is not much argument in the House, that we will support the export of uranium ore with the safeguards- I will not say 'as suggested by the Fox report' although they were suggested by itwhich are so obvious to everyone associated with the industry. 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Very little can be said about this Bill. It is purely a procedural Bill. It indicates the thorough and completely dedicated attitude of the new era in matters of defence. It is a minor Bill which has been presented by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to correct what has been the cause of some difficulties within the Department of Defence. We have a new highly efficient approach to and a sense of responsibility for matters of defence. I commend the Bill and give it my full support. 
-This matter is indeed of public importance not just for the cattle producer, not just for the thousands of small businessmen- the stockmen and all the other little people throughout the nation- who, ever since Australia as such existed, have been a part of this rugged scenario, the truly Australian world of the cattle industry, not just the exporters, and not just the stock and station agents. No indeed. This Government and this nation cannot disregard and will not disregard the disaster which is closing in on an industry worth one billion dollars to this nation. 
The Australian Labor Party stimulated by the philosophy of the Coombs report, could not at any stage disguise its venom towards country people or, more specifically, towards nonmetropolitan residents, hence the utter neglect of industries such as the beef industry. Let us look for a moment at just what has been done in the short time our Government has been in office. There is provision in the Budget for a further $ 15m to be made available as carry-on loan assistance to be jointly financed with the States after joint Commonwealth-State consideration. The conditions on the granting of these loans were liberalised to enable producers who had already obtained finance to apply once again. Earlyin 1976 the meat export inspection service provided by the Department of Agriculture was suspended. This is estimated to have saved the industry about $25m for the year 1976-77. There was a contribution to the beef industry of $ 18.5m. I admit that $1 lm approximately is the net amount involved because of the $1 per head cattle slaughter levy for the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign. There was a grant to the Australian Meat Board of $ 1.2m to cover the cost of the export charges on the sale of meat to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1975. Finally, speaking in a general sense, it might be confidently anticipated that the recent devaluation will permit exporters to take advantage of many more inquiries from nontraditional markets. 
Regrettably these measures gave little, if any, benefit to the desperate financial plight of the cattle producer. There must be an end to the recurring cycles of booms and recessions and the only machinery to achieve this is Government legislation. To me the industry is crying out, not for Government dollars, but for the reconstruction of the industry based on a cornerstone policy of stabilisation. The argument that supply and demand will determine a price structure and will stabilise market conditions for the producer is no longer acceptable to the cattlemen. It is interesting to note that since 1974 the demand for beef has increased by 50 per cent while prices have fallen lamentably and over the last few weeks, at least in Queensland, prices have dropped to such an extent that my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  purchased just the other day a 433-lb vealer carcass hot for $20. It is calculated that this would be about one-third of the production costs of that beast. 
The cold facts are that the cattle producer does not have direct access to a true market and the price he receives bears little or no relationship to the price his product brings on an overseas market. So much for the supply and demand argument. It cannot be effective in a market place where, say, 25 000 producers are subject to the prices paid by half a dozen buyers. Every cattle producer in Australia is affected by these circumstances but I would point out that the State perhaps most affected by the collapse of the beef industry is Queensland. I do not think any other State has more individual cattle producers who are unable to diversify, so it is not surprising that some rather dramatic and certainly determined initiatives have emerged in that State. The State Government formed a beef industry committee which has submitted a proposed beef stabilisation plan which, it has been suggested, should have an initial trial period of 5 years with provision for extension at 5-year intervals. Without going into the details of this scheme I think it would be an advantage to explain one or two features which I think are interesting. For instance, the plan refers to a 'livable price' concept and this is explained as intending that the minimum price fixed should provide a return sufficient to enable the generally efficient grazier to survive in the industry until market prices improve. 
The committee claimed that a price of around 66c to 70c per kilogram, dressed weight basis, for first and second quality would be about the level required. I do not want to go into further details regarding this or any other stabilisation plan. I have only 15 minutes to deal with a subject that is of momentous importance and the major objective of this debate is to argue the general concept of stabilisation and to plead the cause for the utmost urgency in the matter of reconstructing the cattle producing industry. It is apparent that no marketing plan can be put into action until 2 matters are finalised. First, a uniform national classification scheme must be introduced. It is encouraging to note that the Agricultural Council, at its meeting at Launceston earlier this month, announced that Australia's carcass classification scheme will be based on measurements of weight, fat depth and age of carcasses and will apply to cattle, sheep and pigs. Much more important was the announcement that chains would be operating in all States by June 1977. The industry is understandably urging the Government to pull out all stops and give this matter full priority, and I am confident that this is what is being done. The second matter essential to any plan is the organisation that will administer it, hence the insistence that the personnel of the newly organised Meat and Livestock Corporation be announced without delay. Let me say with complete conviction that throughout the land the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is being urged to bring the Corporation under producer control. I believe that no Minister for Primary Industry in history has ever had such difficulties to contend with. 
He has received hundreds of representations in relation to the new Corporation and, in accordance with the way in which this Government acts, each of these has been respected and evaluated. However, I must say to the Minister, if I am to project truthfully the unanimity of opinion I have received from the producers, that if the composition of the Corporation was announced before lunchtime today, it would not be too soon. One matter to which I must refer is the necessity for the sub-committee of the Agricultural Council to have its recommendations examined and processed with all urgency so that this will not be an inhibiting factor to delay the Government's attention to the marketing requirements of the producer. There was much disappointment, if not considerable anger, when it was learnt that the matter of stabilisation was not effectively discussed at the Launceston meeting. I regret that I have not had an opportunity to discuss the matter with Queensland's Minister for Primary Industries,  Mr Vic  Sullivan, to learn why the required recommendations were not ready for the Launceston meeting. 
I must return again to the main theme of this debate, that is, to stress again what can only be described as victimisation of the cattle producer by a system which coldly denies him a fair share of export returns. I think at this stage that I would do well to quote some comments made by the leader of the National Country Party, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in the House only last week. He gave figures which indicated record meat sales during 1977 due, I might mention, to the tremendous activity by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Primary Industry and, of course, the  Deputy  Prime Minister himself. He said: 
Our Japanese quotas are being continually pushed up since the ban on imports in 1974 was lifted. The European Economic Community has eased some of its restrictions and is offering a market of about 12S 000 tonnes of imports of which we will have a part. One aspect that is very pleasing is the sales that have been made to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and to the Eastern Soviet bloc countries. I am pleased to say that it is after my visit to the Soviet Union and the invitation of the head of the Soviet States Trading Agency that we look like making sales to the Soviet Union and Soviet bloc countries of about 100 000 tonnes which is additional - 
This is interesting- to last year's sales. The higher prices and the greater sales mean that the industry should be doing better. 
I ask honourable members to note what he then had to say: 
I believe it is true that the non-growing sector of the industry has had a prosperous year- that is the exporters, the processors and the people who work in the meatworks. But the prices have not been reflected back to the cattle producers. 
He went on to say: 
I think it is a bad situation for the whole of the industry if everybody does not share in the benefits. The cattle producing side of the industry has gone through 3 agonising years. Unless there is a sharing of the returns then I think great harm will be done to the industry. There should be an opportunity for higher returns going to cattle owners this year but that will depend on whether the buyers are prepared to pass the returns back . . . 
The latter part of what he states eloquently and sincerely supports my case for our cattle men. I merely add that the cattlemen of Australia and all who work with them- from the ringer, the stockman, the tank sinker to the vet, the professional man-are a determined bunch and they are looking for an alternative if a scheme is not urgently put into operation which will give them a fair snare of our export earnings. Their threat, which most certainly will materialise into action, is that they will go it alone. They will kill, process and export in their own right. Could they be blamed for this if one read, as I did the day before yesterday, in a New Zealand newspaper dated 9 February 1977 a report of sales which had been held the previous day? It said: Prices paid for prime cattle: top oxen $254, heavy $240 to $250, medium $205 to $235-now we are getting back to the plonk and away from the champagne' Angus steers $ 1 1 5 to $ 1 1 8 '. Let us look at some figures that were given to one of my producers in relation to prices in Australia. The cost on board ship was 68c per lb and- this is interesting- the maximum price to producer was 1 7c per lb. I conclude by saying that if we look at the existing prospects for 1977 we must admit that the beef producer has never had it better and the cattle producer has never had it worse. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
-The responsible people in this Parliament who are taking part in this debate are very much aware of the unique privilege that is ours. After all,  Her  Majesty presented an address to us. That address has been described, in not very kind terms, as abortive and so on by speakers on the Australian Labor Party side of the House. However, we on this side have a sense of privilege and I am particularly aware of it. In my opening remarks I would like to add a tribute to our armed forces for their splendid and unforgettable display and the fly past. That demonstration had a tremendous effect- an effect that they always generate when permitted to do so. 
Normally I am a gentle soul and I get not a great deal of pleasure out of being unkind, particularly to members of the Opposition. If my remarks appear to be not of a gentle nature,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask you to understand that they have been stimulated by an address by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which must go down as the emptiest, most aggressive and mose unconstructive and character destroying addresses that I have heard in this House. He singled out one or two honourable members and took advantage of what he has created as a coward's castle to attack them here this afternoon. Maybe I will add one or two remarks that will not reflect too kindly on him. 
Let the people of Australia never forget the shattering disaster of the 3-year Whitlam regime. The nightmare began with an immediate and indecent grasp of power. The then Prime Minister virtually ran the country for some days with single dictatorial power, with arrogance and contempt for the most elementary form of democracy. As he began his rampage, his rape of this country, so he ended it, defying every accepted constitutional device which was being used to persuade him, not to force him, to make a simple move- to go to the people, to submit himself and his Government to our masters, the electors of Australia, for a verdict. Finally, the GovernorGeneral, virtually after pleading again and again with this man who was allegedly his friend, was forced to take the only course open to him, to dissolve the Parliament and hand the matter over to the Australian people. And what a decision the people gave. I never cease to wonder,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  at the irony of the situation in which the ragged and mouldy remnants of this Party childishly and gibberishly cried 'havoc', 'get rid of Kerr', 'Kerr has destroyed democracy' and so on. If all this is true then hundreds of thousands of workers and others who could not get to the ballot box quick enough to flush out these people who had riddled our great democracy must have been involved in that conspiracy. 
I say to my fellow Australians: Remember that our present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made it perfectly clear that the road back to financial stability and the restoration of our reputation in the market places of the world would require hard work, tenacity of purpose and above all time- at least one term. It was interesting to note that quite recently a number of responsible financial and other institutions in this country recognised and publicly commended the Government's financial policies. This has been particularly so over the last few weeks. I ask my fellow Australians to compare the FraserAnthony administration with the WhitlamCrean administration, the Whitlam-Cairns administration, the Whitlam-Barnard administration, etc. How could one make any sort of comparison? The defence of this country is now secure. The rag pickers and the weirdos who were filling the coridors around this House have been flushed out and eradicated. No more are there jobs for the boys and girls and some who are a little bit of each. There are no more  Blue Poles  and regrettably there is no more  Blue Hills.  The family is again recognised as the most important element in our society? in our social structure. No more do we have people in government ridiculing moral standards and encouraging contempt for law and order. No more do we have the Coombs' philosophy hammering rural dwellers into the ground. No more do we have the enormous and scandalous squandering of public funds; for example, overseas trips for numerous people travelling in luxurious circumstances. No more do we have Cabinet instability. Our reputation as a reliable nation has been restored. Our dignity is again recognised overseas with our powerful allies. It is once more good to be an Australian. 
If a few of the matters that I propose to place before the House appear to be a little parochial may I respectfully submit that if honourable members examine them they will see they are not parochial but are of extreme importance to the whole of this nation. The first subject I deal with- I spoke at some length on this only a week or so ago in this House- is the situation in the cattle industry. I refer specifically to the cattle producer. It was said here tonight by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  a man for whom I have a great deal of respect, that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  displayed some sort of lack of concern for the consumer. The insinuation was that if producers adopted the  Deputy  Prime Minister's suggestion- that is, that there should be a dribbling of stock into the saleyards rather than a great flood of stock- that would necessarily mean a higher price for the producer. It certainly would but it would not mean a higher price to the consumer. The  Deputy  Prime Minister made clear what is obvious to those of us who are involved in matters such as these that there would be a little less for the in-between man. If there is consideration for the workers then the huge and unreasonable costs that are involved, not so much through decisions which affect industrial awards and arbitration matters but because of the actions of certain groups of people in the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union who are intent on bringing the industry to a standstill from time to time, could be reduced. I include among those people a few who are not members of that union -meat inspectors. Some of these- and let me be quite explicit- it is alleged cause much more industrial unrest and stoppages than the actual knockabout worker involved in the industry. I will not enlarge on this subject except to say that I am sure the Government is now acutely aware of the necessity to have not dollars but legislation for the industry. The industry is not asking for money. It is asking for legislation which at least will take some of the cream which is now going to exporters and to others and bring it back to the producers because almost everyone who is a part of our rural scene in the non-metropolitan areas of this nation is dependent on them. Our small towns and our workers in local authorities depend for their survival on the prosperity of this industry. 
Maybe this does sound parochial because I propose to talk about one particular project in this nation but it is a project that supports an industry which is one of the largest industrial complexes of its kind in the world and it is in my own city of Mount Isa. There is a dam there. I am talking of a single dam but it is a dam that provides water to stimulate an industry which provides millions of dollars each year to the whole nation. The situation is simple. If this dam is not funded by a federal contribution it will mean that the people in this area will be faced with annual rates of somewhere near $500. If this charge is added to the cost of living in this remote area 600 miles from the coast with all the penalties that are involved in living in such a locality, the situation will become intolerable. I firmly believe that the Government will give sympathetic consideration to providing some assistance for these people. I make this earnest appeal in what is an important speech for any member, namely his speech in the Address-in-Reply debate, when a member can bring home matters which are of huge importance to his people. It is our duty to do this. I shall press that matter further. I have had the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  come out to my electorate. He is now familiar with the situation as is the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  who is my Leader, and my senior Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We hope that there will be a smile from Cabinet. Even the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  may assist us in this matter. 
I point out to the House that we have the great privilege of having in the gallery tonight one of the greatest figures, if not the greatest figure, in local government in Australia. I refer to  Sir Harold  Behan- a man who has devoted his entire life to local government. It is with a great deal of pleasure that I recognise that he is in the gallery tonight. I am not speaking for my own benefit; he is not in a position to further my prospects. I also refer to other people such as Andy Walls, who is now the liaison officer between the whole of local government in Australia and our various committees in Canberra. This is the crux of what I am about to say. This Government has created 5 specific committees which have as a very important part of their responsibilities the task of looking after the local government movement throughout Australia. I say to all the local government people of Australia that we have a most sympathetic Prime 
Minister. There is an open door whenever one wants to discuss matters of local government. We have a sympathetic Ministry. I would say that we are on the verge of a great era for local government. I feel that local government will be given powers which will enhance its responsibilities and, much more importantly, it will be given sufficient finance to carry out those responsibilities. 
There is a great demand at the moment throughout the nation for some form of work- if I may put it that way- or something which will occupy the people who are unemployed and which will produce some benefit to the country. Not for a moment am I attempting to play lightly with the industrial requirements for which the unions would ask. We had the Regional Employment Development scheme, under which there was an irresponsible spending of money. If we had something of a similar nature and if the responsibility for the works involved was placed in the hands of local government, I think that would have 2 effects. Once more we would see the hope of development in local authority areas. At the moment we never think in terms of development; we think of sustaining the present situation- of maintaining roads and existing facilities. Good heavens, are we going to look to an absolutely futile future where there is no talk of development? I think that such a scheme as I have proposed would open the door to a consideration of the development of our shire works and so on. 
I am sure that no one would argue against the merits of the case which I shall put now for the restoration of the petroleum prices subsidy. I realise that this Government is doing an almost unbelievable job in trying to tighten the purse strings and to bring responsibility back to this nation; but I do not regard, for one moment, the restoration of the petroleum prices subsidy as a handout. It is an investment in 4 industries which alone produce $4 billion a year for this nation and which stimulate the growth of our urban and metropolitan areas. It is easy for an economy to sag and to become limp when the great backblocks begin to fold up. People are quickly losing hope. In my part of the world and in the electorate of Kalgoorlie we pay something like 22c a litre for petrol whereas our city brethren pay 14.5c if they go to the right place. This situation should not exist. I do not think that a government subsidy is absolutely necessary. Surely the Government has the authority to confer with the fuel distributors- I do not want to confine my remarks to petroleum- of this nation and to get them to come to some sort of arrangement whereby a fraction of a cent more is paid by people living in the coastal areas and the benefit is given to the many hundreds of thousands of country people, most of whom play an important role in contributing $4 billion a year for this nation's economy. I appeal strongly to the Government to consider restoring the benefit at the earliest possible moment or alternatively introducing a scheme under which fuel prices can be levelled out throughout the nation. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  drew attention to the fact that many people in his electorate are without the benefit of any sort of television or radio reception. It is a sad thing. It can be said that 96 per cent of the people of this nation receive television. That is a tremendous achievement by this Government. But the 4 per cent of people who do not receive it are vital to the economy of this nation. It is extraordinary irony that those 4 per cent are involved in industries that are earning the money that keeps the wheels of industry and everything else turning. Recently I travelled with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I anticipate- I hope that I am not being over-optimistic- that a further scheme will evolve to bring television to some of these remote areas. I could cite such places and I am sure that there is not an honourable member here representing rural areas who does not have those pockets in his electorate. It is rather frustrating, as the honourable member for Kalgoorlie said, that there is a microwave link within cooee of a town and for an outlay of perhaps $20,000 or $30,000 this reception could be provided. I feel that there is some hope that this will be done. The Address-In-Reply debate provides me with the opportunity to mention problems in my own area as well as national problems. 
I want to conclude on a subject that I suppose is so important that by comparison anything else I have mentioned appears of little consequence. I intend to dwell at least for a minute or two on the matter of the defence and security of this country. This morning the  President  of the United States of America made an announcement that must worry all of us here in Australia.  His  Press Secretary said that he would enlarge on his announcement. He indicated that the American forces would be withdrawn from the Indian Ocean to some extent. I do not know whether they are to be completely withdrawn or to what extent. The point is that this announcement opens up a completely new situation for us here in Australia. Whether we subscribe to the point of view that there is a threat in the Indian Ocean or not this decision means that the ocean is wide open to any sort of intrusion. Let us not think for a moment that the possibility of an emergency is not around the corner. It always is. Unless we accept that proposition the defence of this country will become of no consequence. So we must condition ourselves to this thinking. 
Perhaps the key to the whole situation is our association with the Indonesian people. Only today I found in the corridor a paper which must have been produced by a communist organisation setting out the terrible way in which the Fretilin people had been treated. Let us remember one thing. If we should cease to have the present friendly association which we have with the Indonesian people we will indeed be in grave danger. I think that the presence of Her Majesty the Queen has brought a most wonderful impetus to this nation. I feel highly privileged to be able to make a contribution to this debate. 
Is the Minister for National Resources aware of the figures recently released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing an increase in the value of mineral exports of almost 30 per cent in the half year to 31 December 1976? Do these figures show that the recovery in the mining sector is well under way? What effect are they likely to have on Australia's economic prospects? 
-The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  expressed quite some concern about the abolition of an independent statutory body. Of course, he was referring to the Bureau of Roads. He was also concerned whether the new amalgamated Bureau of Transport Economics would have the independence which was such an attractive feature of the Bureau of Roads. I would like to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Normally I do not like including quotations in my speeches as it may give the appearance of padding a speech. But as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will know, honourable members do not pad their speeches these days. We are lucky if our Whip does not come over to us and say: 'Instead of speaking for 1 5 minutes, would you mind cutting down your speech to 7 minutes?'. However, I would like to clarify the position for the honourable member for Melbourne. At this stage, it might be of concern to some of the people involved in this matter, if not all of them, to know that there is a body of people who have been appointed specifically by the local government movement itself to act in a liaison capacity between the Government and local government. I have the privilege of being the  chairman  of that committee. Hence, we became the focal point of a huge, continuing and momentous agitation and concern at the possibility of the elimination of the Bureau of Roads and the formation of the Bureau of Transport Economics 
I would like to say that the present Minister for Transport had a particular understanding of the concern of the people throughout the nation. The concern, which was fairly unanimous, was that the Bureau of Roads was going out of existence. One can well understand that concern. One can well understand the concern of the Minister because he comes from an area in which roads are perhaps of more vital and critical importance than they are in the more densely populated areas. 
The Bureau of Roads has been particularly fortunate in that it has always had serving on it men of the highest calibre. After all, there are only three of them. If I mention one or two of them and do not mention the other it is not because of any priorities which I hold. One man whom we all know and who has served the Bureau, the nation, this Government and other governments splendidly is Ron McCormick who is the Secretary of the Bureau.  Mr Loxton,  the  Chairman,  did a splendid job. Those of us who probe a little deeper into the membership of the Bureau of Transport Economics know that that Bureau has an equally high calibre of personnel serving it. I seem to be throwing with gay abandon bouquets all over the place, but I say these things with the utmost sincerity. What I say is factual. It is never difficult to discuss the subject of roads, either at the Commonwealth political level or at the bureaucratic level. I think we would concede generally that the 2 bodies have the great advantage of having men of high quality serving on them. 
I have another interest which brings me close to those people, and that is my position as Chairman of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety. I think it important that I should read what the Minister said in his second reading speech in relation to this matter. He said: 
It is important to realise, however, that the BTE has similar autonomy to the Bureau of Roads. 
The Minister made a very specific statement there. He went on to say: 
For instance, the Director has direct access to me as Minister for Transport on all matters relating to the Bureau's work. There is a considerable misunderstanding in the minds of some people who think that the BTE is a division within the Department of Transport - 
That was a major obstacle in getting a message through to the people involved in local government, and I must say that I share their concern to a tremendous degree, as the Minister well knows-  and is thus subject to direct influence by the Department. It is true that the BTE receives administrative support from the 
Department of Transport. This allows for considerable cost savings but does not put the Department in a position where it is able to alter the professional advice the BTE gives. The BTE has no less and no more independence in this regard than the Bureau of Roads. 
That is a fairly specific and fairly clear statement. The independence of the Bureau of Transport Economics receives administrative support from the Department of Transport. The Minister went on to say: 
The independence of the  BTE's  advice and its Director's free access to me as Minister are established facts. There will certainly be no erosion of these rights as a result of amalgamation. The new body will act independently in undertaking research and supplying advice as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the BTE have in the past. 
One would have to be either a little mentally unstable or stupidly and priggishly determined if one would not accept such a factual and clear cut statement and if one were not to realise that the Minister has entirely clarified that matter and given a very specific undertaking. As regards the Minister's involvement, I must mention another man who has played a very specific part in this matter. I refer to Andy Walls. For those who may not know him, he is the Director of the new Secretariat of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations here in Canberra. He has maintained a very close liaison not only with the Minister but also with we people who I suppose are his storm troopers. The Minister has at all times had his office open not only to Andy Walls but also to other people. He has asked me on occasions to tell the Australian Council of Local Government Associations that if any of its State bodies or if the Council itself wish to confer with him on this matter he would at all times be prepared not only to receive them here in Canberra but also to go to the States and discuss the matter with them. So there has not been a breakdown of communication in this matter. 
The 2 States that reacted in a particularly apprehensive manner to the Bureau of Roads proposal were Victoria and Queensland. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  who himself is highly qualified in local government affairs, made it quite clear last night when he addressed the House that the Victorian Municipal Association has a very grave concern about the matter. We held a conference with the gentlemen on that Association. The way they explained the situation was that many of their bitumen rural arterial roads have become gravel roads and the gravel roads have become bullock tracks. Maybe there is a slight element of exaggeration there. The message they were trying to get across was that they do have a great problem. Why is there concern that the Bureau of Roads should be abolished or, if you like, absorbed into the Bureau of Transport Economics? The great virtue of the Bureau of Roads was that it considered that its primary task in making any evaluation in any particular area was to ensure that that evaluation was based on need. In other words, if the Bureau went into a particular area it had to condition itself not to be concerned so much with government policy or with the amounts of money that were available; it had to make a truthful and explicit report based on the needs of that State or that part of the State. To my mind, that was the great virtue of the Bureau of Roads. Now we are assured that this aspect will be maintained in the new Bureau. There is a fear that because of the comprehensive responsibilities of the Bureau of Transport Economicsits overall interest in all aspects of transportation in the nation- maybe roads will become just another element in its activities. That is not the case either, because an assurance has been given in this matter. Maybe I should read just one or two parts of the statement to which I referred earlier. When speaking of the staffing of the amalgamated body, if I might put it that way, the statement reads: 
It is not intended to proclaim this Act (to abolish the BOR) until staff of the BOR have been absorbed into the PublicService. 
The Public Service Board's recommendation is to the effect that staff of the BOR who were employed on 1 1 November 1976 (the date of the formal decision to amalgamate the 2 Bureaus) and who have since been continuously employed by the Bureau be made offers of employment in the Public Service. 
This is important: 
The Public Service Board has indicated that it is prepared to consider a formal interim proposal from the Department to create in Melbourne a sufficient number of positions identical - 
This should be noted-  to positions currently existing in the Bureau of Roads in the BTE to allow those staff members of the Bureau of Roads to whom division 9F would apply to be offered employment at their current substantive level in the APS. 
It is not just a matter of those people retaining the same classification in the Public Service; their expertise and their attitudes are often more important, because we could well conclude that the stressing of needs in a particular area when evaluating roads would flow on to the Bureau of Transport Economics in the form of the very splendid people who staffed the Bureau of Roads. I would rather hope that the services of  Mr McCormick-  I do not know yet whether this is to be the case; I have not gone into this matter -will be retained and that his association will be of a similar nature with the new amalgamated body to that which he had with the Bureau of 
Roads. Over the many years that I have been associated with him, not only as a federal member of Parliament but also in the sphere of local government, I have come to know very explicitly that no man is more respected, is more accessible and is more willing and ready to help all of us who are interested in the one objective of having a better roads system in each of our States than is  Mr McCormick. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  dealt last night with the situation in Victoria. I would like to talk a little about the Queensland road system and why that State is concerned about all matters relating to decision making in respect of the funding of roads. Anyone who is prejudiced against that State and who is not convinced of the State's concern need merely pull out a map to see at a glance that Queensland is the most decentralised State in the Commonwealth. The State requires long arterial roads which have to be maintained. Because of the splendid contribution made by the Government coalition parties almost all of these arterial roads are sealed. A previous Liberal-Country Party Government made probably one of the most historical contributions to the development of this country when it introduced the system of beef roads. While I am on this subject, I might mention that there is a move afoot to have this classification of roads reintroduced. I am led to believe that this proposal may receive some sympathetic consideration. The major reason why Queensland is so concerned about this legislation is its need for a tremendously long mileage of sealed roads. For instance, the road from Townsville to Mount Isa to Darwin is approximately 650 miles long. The road from Brisbane to Longreach to Alice Springs and on to Darwin - 
Almost entirely sealed. We should also consider the road from Adelaide to Alice Springs to Darwin. I am stressing the important point that these roads are feeder roads to Darwin. I think it would be pretty obvious that road transport is easily the most predominant form of transport for the carriage of supplies to the Northern Territory. Road transport has been obliged to use these roads particularly since Cyclone Tracy. 
The second reason why Queensland and the areas beyond are concerned with this legislation to establish the Bureau of Transport Economics is that the roads of that State have suffered havoc- I think that that would probably be the most descriptive word to use- because of continuous torrential rains. In passing, I do not think 
I have to tell members of this House, prejudiced though some of them from both sides might be against Queensland, of the magnificent tourist attractions of that State. One cannot help but envy Queensland. The State boasts tourist attractions such as the Great Barrier Reef and the rain forests of the far north. There is also the grandeur and the natural and naked beauty of the Gold Coast and on occasions the naked and colourful beauty of inland areas. If we take these attractions into consideration we must be impressed with the necessity for Queensland to have a road system of a standard sufficient to service these tourist attractions. 
I have read to the House in great detail and informed honourable members of the manner in which the Minister for Transport has made himself accessible to the local government movement for discussion and dialogue. In answer to the honourable member for Melbourne, who had grave apprehensions about the independence and powers of the proposed organisation, I quoted from the Minister's second reading speech. The Minister left no doubt in anyone's mind about the independence of the proposed Bureau of Transport Economics. I want to reiterate in the Minister's presence that this particular attribute of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads could be maintained, continued and probably developed in the Bureau of Transport Economics. In respect of the transfer of personnel I have pointed out that a detailed and vigorous effort has been made to make sure that the expertise that was available to the Bureau of Roads will be transferred to the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
I would like to mention just one other aspect. I have mentioned that great interest is again being shown in having the Government consider a classification of roads similar to beef roads. I am always amused when members of the Oppositionthose of the Labor Party who are left in this place- comment on the introduction of a national roads system. I was a Minister when the decision was made to introduce the national roads system. It is a splendid concept which will give us great arterial roads, particularly from the north and south of our continent. 
Recent comments and statements by people who are looking at our whole defence structure, particularly at mainland defence and not forward defence, show very clearly and very specifically that the whole road system has to be looked at again not only in terms of availability both north and south and east and west but in terms of quality. In the case of an emergency the roads would have to carry such equipment as 
Leopard tanks and other extremely heavy equipment that would be required to move with great mobility into areas far beyond what we visualise today. In this context there is talk about the need for additional airports. Suitable roads will be needed to service such installations. This is another aspect of our tremendous interest in the Bureau of Transport Economics. We hope that the all predominant function of evaluating an area in regard to its needs will be continued by the proposed Bureau. If it is, I am sure that the local government movement of this nation will be far less apprehensive than it is at the moment and will be very happy to co-operate with the Federal Government in the future planning of our road system. 
I want to draw attention tonight to 2 subjects of a very parochial nature. I think that the time is well ripe for this House to look at these particular matters. The first matter is related to the provision of television services to certain parts of this nation which have not had even a test pattern or anything approaching it in the 21 or 22 years that television has been available to this nation. I am led to believe that certain specific investigations are taking place at the present time which could lead to an early and favourable decision in relation to this matter. Having in mind the Government's extreme economic difficulties, I make the comment that I feel that the provision of such a service would not be a handout to the areas involved; rather it would be an investment to stimulate the morale and the desire of people to stay in industries which are earning for this nation in the vicinity of $4,000m a year. It is all very well to hear people, more particularly people in the Opposition, say that those of us who come from the vast rural areas represent galahs, trees, grass and so on. But it would do well to remember that almost every person who is so described is a very important unit in the productive capacity of this nation. So at a time when budgetary considerations are very much to the fore I appeal to the Government to make finance available to bring television signals to these areas, particularly to my own electorate, the areas of central Queensland. I refer to places such as Pentland, Greenvale and so on. 
The second matter to which I wish to draw attention is again an extremely parochial one. Having said that I think I can point to it as being of very significant importance to the economy of this nation. I refer to a project known as the Julius Dam project in the Mount Isa area. I know that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  who is sitting at the table has a very keen understanding of this matter. I see also in the chamber my colleague, the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  and the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  Those people know that in the far outback of Queensland there exists a water conservation project which is very critical to the economy and to the provision of water to the community of Mount Isa. In case anybody has any illusions as to the contribution made by that community to the nation, it would be well to consider not only the taxes paid to the coffers of this nation by Mount Isa Mines Ltd but also the contribution of many millions of dollars to this nation by the workers at Mount Isa. All we are asking for in return is a comparatively small amount of money. 
The funding of this project has been contributed to very considerably by the Mount Isa City Council and the communtiy of Mount Isa, by Mount Isa Mines Ltd and, more recently, by the Queensland Government. I do not think it would be to the credit of the national Government if we were to set aside the consideration of providing funds for that very important project. 

 A loan of some $2.4-1 emphasise that a loan -was made in 1972. In the 5 years that have elapsed since then no further contribution has been made to this terribly important project. It is a project which in the future could not only prove to be critical to the continuation of the operations of Mount Isa Mines, which is the largest mineral complex of its kind in the world, but also could well be needed to provided water for the further development of other projects in the area. So again I would earnestly appeal to the Ministry, to the Cabinet, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to give very careful consideration during the Budget deliberations to make some financial assistance available for this project. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister is no doubt aware that many people in Australia do not have a basic telephone service and many others have non-continuous or unsatisfactory services. The Minister no doubt is also aware that significant funds are being expended by Telecom on sophisticated advances in telecommunications technology. Can the Government bring any pressure to bear on Telecom towards providing all Australians who wish to have a telephone with a service before proceeding with other technological advances which, at first glance, do not appear to be of critical necessity? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Road Safety, I bring up the report of the Committee on heavy vehicle safety. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I feel sure the Parliament can appreciate the responsibility that this Committee bears in attempting to find solutions to the very high road accident casualty figures in this country. Current statistics indicate that an average of 10 deaths occur per day on Australian roads. Committee members and staff of this Committee could be forgiven for regarding this Committee as the most important in the Parliament in terms of its constant dealings with human tragedy. As the activities of the Committee proceed, it is becoming more and more apparent that the final authority on road safety matters, whether it be statutory or otherwise, must have independence, must have muscle and must be able to demand the respect and cooperation of the States. We feel that any petty objections by some of the States which feel that their authority is being threatened should be put to one side. Surely in this matter it should be realised that the paramount objective must be to cut down the slaughter on our roads. 
The heavy vehicle safety report which has just been tabled is the second report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road 
Safety established in the Thirtieth Parliament. The report is also the second in a series of reports that the Committee is preparing on safety aspects of vehicles using public roads. The first report related to passenger motor vehicle safety and was tabled on 2 June 1976. The next report which we will commence work on very shortly shall concern motorcycle and bicycle safety. 
During the course of the heavy vehicle inquiry, the Committee held 10 public hearings and inspected truck and bus shows in Sydney. The Committee also held informal discussions with drivers of heavy vehicles. Seventy-four submissions were received during the course of the inquiry. 
There are 28 major recommendations in this report covering a wide range of matters. They include recommendations calling for safety related improvements in the important areas of heavy vehicle braking, steering and handling, tyre standards and the use of retreads, structural strength of truck cabins and bus frames, loading practice, vehicle inspections, modifications and component failures as a source of accidents. A number of recommendations also have been made in areas related to the heavy vehicle driver's field of vision, his comfort and the use of seat belts. 
In relation to other road users, the report makes what I believe are extremely important recommendations. Having regard to the frequency and the severity of rear-end accidents involving cars and other light vehicles crashing into the rear of heavy vehicles, the Committee has recommended that States and Territories make mandatory requirements for rear-end markings and under-run barriers on heavy vehicles. The Committee received many diverse opinions on the desirability of having mandatory requirements in this area of heavy vehicle safety. 
The Committee concentrated its attention in the report on determining the nature and extent of problems related to heavy vehicle safety and on the range of measures by which heavy vehicle safety could be improved. I must say that I was pleased to find that many significant areas for improvement have been identified and that regulatory authorities are giving increasing attention to the need for further regulation over heavy vehicles. The Committee was also impressed with the evidence given by a number of heavy vehicle manufacturers demonstrating their continuing concern to improve the safety of vehicles produced. 
The lack of adequate accident statistics is a basic problem faced by both vehicle manufacturers and regulatory authorities in attempting to make rational decisions on the effectiveness of various safety measures. Extensive comment was made on this problem in the Committee's previous report on passenger motor vehicle safety. In the case of heavy vehicle accidents, the Committee is aware that extensive investigations of such accidents are currently being conducted. However these studies will only partly meet the need for more data and the Committee remains deeply concerned with the lack of uniformity in the collection of accident data. It might interest honourable members to know that even in the elementary matter of ordinary police accident reports, no 2 States use the same form. There is an urgent need to implement a uniform accident report form throughout Australia and this report urges relevant data collecting authorities to cooperate in a complete rationalisation of accident data collection. We feel that comprehensive data collected on a uniform basis will enable authorities more accurately to assess the benefits of safety measures introduced, and determine areas requiring priority attention in the future. 
I would like to pay tribute to the staff associated with the inquiry and the preparation of this report. Since this Committee commenced its inquiries in 1972, we have been most fortunate in having the assistance of staff who obviously appreciate the very serious nature of our work and who have ably assisted the Committee in its inquiries. I would also like to express my thanks to the witnesses and experts who have contributed to this inquiry. I would like to thank both the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and officers of his Department who have so willingly assisted the Committee. Finally I would like especially to commend the Road Trauma Committee of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons for the superb manner in which it organised and conducted the recent International Conference of the Association for Accident and Traffic Medicine. I look to the Road Trauma Committee to assist our Parliamentary Committee in the future to the same great extent as it has in the past. 
I commend the report to the House. 
-This is a cognate debate on nuclear safeguards policy, the uranium industry and the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. I suppose I can claim with some justification that I have more than a normal interest in the decisions, the attitudes and the final debate- this is not it- which will produce our ultimate policy in relation to the export of uranium. My more than normal interest is stimulated by the fact that the only active mine in Australia producing and exporting uranium oxide is at Mary Kathleen, which is not only in the electorate of Kennedy but also very close to both of my home towns. 
The contribution of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  was balanced and added splendidly to this debate. He brought out one matter in particular. He stressed the fact that agreements are broken. History has shown that. Attitudes change. I suppose we might well refer to the remarks of my Leader, the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  earlier in the day when he pointed out that the then Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had canvassed the countries of the world in an all out endeavour to interest them in buying what is one of our major resources, uranium. From examination of the attitudes of the people on our right here-philosophically on our left- I do not think they have changed a great deal but they have become subject to the fringe of environmentalists who attract nothing but discredit on to the genuine, thoughtful, responsible people who have concern in relation not only to this matter of uranium but also to other matters. This is a group of people who are recognised- unless one is prejudiced in their regard- as the professional demonstrators, the professional bludgery 
-Yes, I shall repeat it. The ratbag fringe are the professional bludgery. They go around demonstrating on every cause that stimulates policies by countries which are inimical to this country. The first of the matters being considered in this cognate debate is Australia 's nuclear safeguards policy. I can do no better than read to the House an extract from a letter which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wrote to the  President  of the United States of America, Jimmy Carter: 
The Australian Government will be giving close consideration to these matters - 
That refers to the safeguards for the export of uranium or its by-products- in the near future in the context of formulating a national Australian policy on nuclear safeguards. Naturally we wish to take full accounts of any new thinking as it develops in this area, especially to ensure that our policies and those of the United States and other like-minded countries, such as Canada, are mutually reinforcing. 
We have heard members of the Opposition constantly citing Canada as reacting and being sensitive to the application of safeguards in this matter. The Prime Minister goes on to say: 
Australian officials already have held detailed and useful consultations with United States officials and I am sure you would agree that it is highly desirable that this be an ongoing process. 
That was the letter written by the Prime Minister to Jimmy Carter. Jimmy Carter, no less a person than the  President  of the United States, above his own signature wrote in reply: 
As you are aware, we are currently making a comprehensive review of United States non-proliferation policies. 
He then goes on to speak of the safeguards that are being considered and the general attitude and philosophy of the United States. In other words, the Prime Minister has allied himself with a man who has surprised the world by being so completely conscious of the necessity to supply safeguards. 
Let us look at what no less an authority than  Dr Margaret  Maxly had to say and what she believes.  Her  own expression of opinion is this: 
If Australia does not mine uranium and export it with proper safeguards and assurances, then world demand will turn to other suppliers such as South Africa and South 
America who may be not as careful or require as strict safeguards. 
This is one of the reasons why she believes Australia should undertake this venture. Here is an important point and I think it is worth consideration. No doubt it will receive consideration because the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  can be well assured that we are not rushing into this thing. But good heavens, how much longer are we to wait; how much longer are we to keep people out of employment while we consider and reconsider this matter? Admittedly we have had an analysis of the situation supplied by the 2 Fox reports. I think that we can safely say, if we are perfectly honest, because we are not going around the country and more or less justifying the expenditure and the lag of time, the years we have had to wait for the Fox Committee report to become available, that there is nothing new in it. For we people who are close to the uranium scene and for we people who confer from time to time with the people who are practically associated with the uranium situation there is nothing new in the Fox report. I say that if a decision had been made by the Government 2 years ago that decision would be little different from the decision which will be made perhaps 2 years hence, although I hope a lot earlier. God forbid that we have to wait that long. That is the situation. I cannot stress this point enough. I have to get across- we on this side of the House all have this duty- the expression of opinion that was so clearly enunciated by our own Leader, our own Prime Minister, and which was repeated here today by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  who is also the Acting Prime Minister. 
Let us look at what the Prime Minister himself said when he talked about safeguards. He mentioned containment, surveillance and the accounting and inspection of nuclear materials. My goodness, the man could not have gone into greater detail. He summed up by saying this: 
Against this background, I would like to announce the following specific components of the comprehensive safeguards policy which the Government has adopted. 
Note them and note them well. I am repeating them here tonight so that they will again appear in  Hansard.  I am repeating them so that the Prime Minister's words will counter the attitude of the media. This is the regrettable part of this whole situation. The media will give great headlines to every ratbag sort of demonstration that is put on from one end of the country to the other. I talk of demonstrations by those like Friends of the Earth. They have an affinity with the earth. I wish that that affinity was 6 feet deep. I have no compunction in making that comment. 
The Labor Party has degenerated. The regrettable thing is that there is a great element of hypocrisy on the part of many members of the present Labor Party. I repeat that the Prime Minister canvassed our uranium all around the world and hoped to get great sales of this product. Then we heard a suggestion during the debate today that we are just anxious to woo the big companies and that all we are concerned with is money and sales. The great capitalist, the multi-national story is put across again. Let us have a look at the capitalists. What does the bell boy  Telegraph  tell us? The bell boy  Telegraph  tells us that the Federal President of the Australian Labor Party would not live in anything less than an executive suite at the Wentworth Hotel. The bell boy  Telegraph  could tell honourable members a few other things as well. Let us cast our minds back to the advertisements about uranium that appeared in 1972. Some of the newspapers carried a full page advertisement and we saw some of the lesser lights in the business world such as Ken Myer supporting the Labor Party. Of course, he is not a capitalist! The Labor Party has no association with that type of person. It is economy size hypocrisy! 
I shall read the official safeguards enunciated by our Prime Minister. They cover: 
The need to keep policy under review; 
I suppose that technical advances will have to be examined and we will be pliable in our attitude there.  careful selection of eligible customers for uranium; the application of effective International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards- 
I was quite interested and fascinated by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in connection with this matter today. In one breath he was saying that the Agency's opinion was to be valued and in another breath he was telling us not to pay very much attention to it. The other components comprise:  bilateral agreements with customer countries: fallback safeguards;  that is extremely important-  prior Australian Government consent in relation to reexport, enrichment and reprocessing: 
When we talk about re-export and reprocessing, we should stop to realise and to appreciate one particular fact: That if we are not going to export natural uranium we are going to stimulate the production of plutonium and other enrichment processes which will create a great hazard. Honourable members opposite should remember that when they talk about terrorism and all the other furphies. The remaining components are:  physical security; safeguard provisions in contracts; and international and multilateral efforts to strengthen safeguards. 
I now turn to the human element of the uranium industry. I suppose I could also include the third subject of this debate, the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, under that heading. When I commenced my address to the House I said that I had in my electorate the only uranium mine which is actively operating in this country at present. There is a very large community and a very large body of workers who depend on that mine. It may interest honourable members to know that since the Mary Kathleen uranium mine went back into operation there have been a number of job vacancies. The company cannot get anyone suitable to fill those vacancies. When the Mount Lyell mine closed down the company thought it would have no difficulty in getting people to fill the vacancies at Mary Kathleen. They were not successful because extreme union bosses told people at the Mount Lyell mine that they were not to work at Mary Kathleen. I issue a word of warning to those bosses who are very comfortably situated in their great capital cities with their 4 television channels and so on. I say to them that it would be a decidely dangerous operation for them to appear physically on the Mary Kathleen uranium field. I suggest that if they do go up there they buy a single ticket, not a return ticket, because I do not think that they would need it. The people at Mary Kathleen depend on the mine for their existence. 
I wish to raise one final matter and it concerns people with whom I have grown up and know intimately and not for political purposes, the Aboriginal people. Let me tell honourable members opposite this and let them cut out their silly, stupid hypocrisy: If the Aboriginal people were to see the Ranger Mine develop tomorrow, they would take a fascinated interest and in time they would get to learn what was happening there. They would gain great advantages, monetary as well as physical, from the development of that area. The difficulty is that we get the great white bosses, the Uncle Toms- and they call us Uncle Toms- going out there and filling these people with alcohol and spurring them on to make them discontented. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which produced, the report we are discussing worked with tremendous intensity. I think it must be acknowledged that it has produced a report containing great detail. This document is of great importance to honourable members on both sides of the House. I would like to congratulate the Honourable Kim Beazley, the Honourable Ian Robinson and the other members of the sub-committee, including my friend the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  The terms of reference for the subcommittee were: 'The significance of the domestic crisis in Lebanon for the fragile Middle East situation and the possible international repercussions'. I am quite sure it is not necessary for me to go into great detail and to explain to the House that the sub-committee was concerned with what was happening in a very small country, in Lebanon. What was happening in that country obviously was of importance not only to our country, our sphere of influence and our security. If there were no finish to this war, one which would tie up the loose ends, then there would be terrible possibilities for the future and for all of us at this end of that particular sphere. 
I commence my remarks by stating that there is a clear course for action for Australia to take in relation to the Third World- more particularly in relation to the Middle East. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was right on target in declaring to the world that we acknowledge and respect the important role that the emerging nations of the Third World are playing in world affairs. He, of course, was subjected to a great deal of criticism from people who are to the extreme Right, as he was subjected to a great deal of criticism from people who are to the extreme Left. They suggested that he was doing this sort of thing for our own particular gain. Nevertheless he was quite definite in his expression of opinion. Our course of action, based on the Prime Minister's leadership at the Conference of Commonwealth leaders, is to acknowledge that we have a clear choice. We could, with what would be a high degree of stupidity, stand in isolation and imagine that our only affinity is with the Eastern European bloc, which has previously been regarded as comprising not only the Eastern European countries but also the United States of America, Japan and, of course, Australia. I say that we would be standing in isolation because geographically we are a part of the South East Asian family and this zone of influence will inevitably extend, as the world contracts, into the Middle East and the vast African continent. 
We were more than casually interested in the domestic conflict which caused bloodshed in the Lebanon on a massive scale. We were interested not only because there are a couple of hundred thousand Australians of Lebanese origin in this country but also because of a realisation that all sorts of possibilities depended upon the course and outcome of that terrible genocidal war. It is interesting to note some of the theories expressed as to the cause of the war. I will not go into detail in relation to this matter except to say that the informed sources were not convinced that it was a religious war. I do not think that anyone who was in a position to probe deeply into the initial outbreak of this war was ever convinced that it was a conflict between the Moslems and the Christians of that country. As a matter of fact, those who have studied affairs in the Middle East will acknowledge the fact that the Lebanon has offered a splendid example of co-operation between Moslems and Christians. I well remember my experience in that country. It occurred at a time when I was being briefed in a number of countries en route to the United Nations. It was interesting to note that even when the police officers patrolled the streets of Beirut there was always one Christian and one Moslem. The Parliament consisted of a Moslem and a Christian for each area of responsibility. Everything seemed to work out extremely well. This example of co-operation was outstanding. However, that war came and, we hope, has finally gone. 
I think that it is of immense importance to the world to be assured that the Lebanon becomes stabilised as it is a gateway point between East and West. A number of options immediately become apparent. The Lebanon could revert to the pre-war situation of complete independence. That, of course, would necessitate the Government being restored to its former position of responsibility. The army would have to be reorganised and the city of Beirut rebuilt. One might well expect the United Nations to assist with a substantial contribution of finance and expertise. That would be well and truly due to the Lebanon as that country acceded to the wishes of the United Nations and provided a refuge for thousands of Palestinians and had to endure the complex and enormous problems that followed. One might be forgiven for theorising a little and saying that if Palestinian camps were not sprawling around the city of Beirut there never would have been the conflict that caused the death of perhaps 40 000 to 100 000 people. 
Another matter worthy of consideration is how long the Syrians will remain in occupation. If they leave will there be a further outbreak of internal war? If they stay will there be a provocation which could well stimulate war with Israel on a full scale basis? How interested are the world powers in the preservation of peace in the Middle East? Could the situation arise where the United States and mainland China tapered off their interest in the Middle East and the African continent and left a zone of influence available for the exclusive exploitation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? That possibility is well recognised by those who are involved in a constant study of the balance of power. 
When one realistically examines all these pressures it becomes obvious that a country like Australia must earn the confidence and respect of that large and influential segment of the Third World which has not accepted and never will accept communist enslavement. I will always remember the point of view expressed by Archbishop Ryan, who was a very old friend of my former leader,  Sir John  McEwen- they were buddies- that the genuine Moslem world could never bow its knee to communism because communism in its purest sense is entirely atheistic.  His  theory, followed through, is perfectly justifiable. It is that people who have a god of any description cannot accept the cold atheistic, materialistic philosophy. So we will always have that bulwark against communism in those areas. 
I have gained great comfort from his theory. I think it would apply. So we can safely say that there is a great segment of the Third World that would never accept the enslavement of atheistic communism. 
I revert to my suggestion that we should build up an affinity with this segment of the Third World. We have to do it in a manner that earns its confidence and respect and not by sending out smoke signals that we are interested in its petrodollars, that we are interested in our own survival and that we see its immense power beginning to develop. Not for one moment should we consider doing that. We have to try to get across to this segment of the Third World that we now understand that the barriers which divided Europeans and non-Europeans, black and white, Moslems and Christians and the very rich and the very poor must be removed. No one appreciates that more than the Prime Minister. I think that he has given international leadership with his tremendous tolerance. I do not think that many people would have thought that the Prime Minister accepted that philosophy. I think that the . Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  will agree with me on that aspect. Yet he has produced it in its purest and most sincere form. I believe that his leadership will earn us the right to become closely associated with these people. It is not, as I have said, that we want their petrodollars and because we quiver and quake because of the possibility of their vast influence offering some sort of threat to us. We seek an honourable association with these countries. We have offered a home to thousands of people who have come from the Middle East. Many Armenians, Turks, Lebanese and other nationalities have attained very high and noble positions in this land. 
In the few minutes I have left I would like to talk about the ever present possibility of a conflict blowing up in the Middle East which will prove more criticial than any we have encountered. I have had a good deal to do with Israeli ambassadors over a period of years, both here and at the United Nations, and with various Arab ambassadors, such as the Egyptian and Lebanese ambassadors. When one talks to them separately they seem to produce a very simplistic solution to the whole conflict. Israeli Ambassadors will tell one that now that they have their own country they do not propose to permit that their territory should be interfered with in any way. But vast areas are still available. The need is for someone to convince both these peoples that they can exist side by side and that gome, pf the billions of dollars that are being squandered IR preparing for war could be used to create a Palestinian state that did not interfere with Israel. I am speaking purely as a layman who, as a representative of this country at the United Nations, has spent, in relation to the period a politician is at that body, a long term there. I have had the opportunity of observing these people and I have tried to adopt a tolerant attitude to the matter. I would imagine that a solution would be readily available. Please God that it will come- I hope it will. 
I now turn to the subject of trade. I have had the opportunity on two occasions now of observing the trade possibilities that exist in the Middle East countries. These trade possibilities are immense. But, of course, it takes two to tango. If we go the Middle East and say that we are willing to sell beef, wool and other products from the great natural resources that we have but that we are not greatly interested in any of its products, obviously trade arrangements between our countries will not work. 
It is important to understand the psychology of the Middle East people. It is a matter of trying to introduce into discussions on the great prospects for international trade among our nations something of the philosophy of the Arabs bargaining in the bazaars. I returned from the Middle Eastand I hope to go there again at the end of the year- with the opinion that in that area Australia could not have a trade commissioner in the normal sense that that position is understood. A few of our trade representatives in this region have not been quite normal! Boy, they have taken over the character of the area. The only thing they did not do was wear Arab dress. They spoke arabic. They ate the food of the region. When I met them, I found myself wondering whether they were genuine Arabs or whether they were people such as Pier Hutton, a delightful character, who would not like to call himself 'Peter' Hutton. He was not a trade commissioner. He was our ambassador. He was a grand worker for trade. If we choose the right people to represent Australia we could well become part of that terribly influential segment of the Third World. 
I conclude my speech by again offering my congratulations to the members of this very hardworking sub-committee. They have done a fine job. 1 am sure that their contribution will go a long way towards producing the kinds of results that I have been talking about. 
Debate interrupted. 
If the members of this House and of this nation were to look at the map of Australia setting out the present  boundaries of the Federal electorates, if they were to look at the electorates of Maranoa, Dawson, Leichhardt, Kalgoorlie, Wakefield, Darling and Kennedy, and if they were then to consult the Library and estimate the contribution made to the national economy by those electorates, some very interesting results would be produced. If their research went a little further they would find that in those electorates there is a lamentable lack of what is now regarded as a very ordinary amenity, and that is television. The very people who are associated with the production of the massive wealth of this nation are denied any sort of television reception. I have gone through this exercise for 1 1 years now with successive governments, and I will admit that I have been given valid reasons why television could not go immediately into those areas. The valid reasons related, of course, to the concept that television should go first to the most densely populated areas. If the pressure of politics and of vested interests was not taken into account and if pure compassion, understanding and some sort of just reward for living in those areas and producing the massive wealth of this country were to apply, television would have gone into those areas first. There would have been no question about that. But after 23 years it is a little difficult to continue to accept reasons why television is not being received in those places, particularly when in many cases the cable passes over the heads of the people involved. 
I am a little tired of accepting the verdicts of the bureaucratic commissions which were brought into existence by the Labor Government and which were given powers to set aside the elected representatives of this nation and be a law unto themselves. They pass verdicts on whether or not they will research the possibilities of videophones and other futuristic instruments so that they can get a slap on the back from the people with whom they live. Let them get out and endure some of the difficulties that we have to endure. Let them sit at home at night in places like the ones I have in my electorate, and I will name a few. Aramac, Muttaburra, Jericho and Tambo are towns in probably the richest merino wool producing area in Australia. Caulfield and Sanford are in cattle producing areas and Greenvale is one of the largest nickel producing areas in this nation. Those towns have no television whatsoever and are hundreds of miles from anywhere. Pentland, another cattle and killing centre, does have television. It you sit up and strain your eyes until you go silly you might get some sort of reception. That sort of thing has been going on year after year, and I do not see any indication in the present Budget that television will be provided in those areas. I have been a Minister and I realise the agony involved in making a decision to allocate funds for various things. 
Let me deal with the Coombs report. In the conspiracies of the Labor Government of that time, the Government did everything in its power, through the medium of that report, to wipe the people in the country out of existence altogether. The $1.5m, or whatever it was that the Government paid for that lousy, crummy painting,  Blue Poles,  would have provided all the television we wanted in those days. Where is that painting now? It is hanging somewhere, and I believe that the paint is peeling off. It would be no loss if the paint peeled off altogether. This is an extremely serious matter for those involved. We cannot constantly go back and say to those people that once again no provision has been made for television, that a bureaucrat in Canberra had a few meetings and sent out one or two experts, who went through the areas like brumbies with their tails on fire, giving some sort of indication that they were half interested, taking a few details here and a few details there, and coming back and making a decision unfavourable to those people. How long can people like the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  and the rest of us be expected to stand by? This cannot be worked out on statistics. Surely there is some compassion somewhere, some understanding that the very vitality which is seeping out of this nation is the vitality that has seeped out of every other nation which has crashed, that the people in the inland are drifting to the parasite cities. The more quickly that is realised the better. 
I might appear to be a little stirred, but I think that 23 years is a pretty fair time; we are now getting into the 24th year. How do other honourable members trunk I feel when I go into one of these areas and accidentally ask: 'Did you see the commercial celebrating the 2 1st anniversary of commercial television?' People in those areas would  settle for a smoke signal. That is how difficult it is. The dme for talk is over. I appeal most earn.estly to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to set aside the recommendations of his Commission. In fairness to the Minister, I should say that I know he bases his decisions on those recommendations. I was a Minister and I know how these matters are processed. One hopes, looking at the whole balance of the economy, that one will make the right decision on the recommendations. But in the evaluation of the people representing those electorates, the right decision has not been made, and the amount of money involved is not of any great consequence. So much for that. 
Another matter I should like to deal with briefly is that of the small miners' tribunal. The Government has a policy and will proceed with it as soon as the matter can be discussed and some sort of preliminary planning arrangement set up. I am quite confident that that will happen, but I want to support the case for the small mining fraternity. I do not mean the ordinary gouger or fossicker, but the numerous people around the country who have small mining projects which cannot get off the ground. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is at the table, would appreciate this because some of the legislation he put through in relation to these matters when he was Minister for Mines in New South Wales was most commendable. At this stage we are not even looking for funds. We are seeking a tribunal, call it what you like, which in the early stages would be able to pass on expertise, advice and necessary consultation to people who can handle the mining industry. If we look at the history of rnining in this nation we will see that almost every major mining project, even to this day, has been discovered not with highly sophisticated equipment but by the ordinary bloke who gets around the country and fossicks out the lode that really matters. In the case of Mount Isa it was Campbell Miles. Weipa was discovered by a geologist, which is not surprising. He was a qualified man, but even so he was not doing some scientific research but discovered Weipa in the ordinary process of exploration. It is through small men such as those that the great mining discoveries have been made. I have already arranged to have discussions with the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and I hope that eventually the matter will go through to our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) and that we can look at the possibilities of a section of the Bureau of Mineral Resources being made available first of all for consultation specifically with the small miner. In the course of time, when through the medium of the splendid Budget which has just been brought down in this House and through other processes we bring about the restoration of prosperity, I hope that we will be able to provide bridging finance to assist these people to get their ventures off the ground. 
-There has been a tremendous clamour and a tremendous demand from the Opposition for debate on the all-important topic of the mining and export of uranium which is something this Government proposes to do. The speeches which have been made in the House have been so repetitive that I think that if one were to appeal to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  about the Standing Order on repetition, some sort of an interesting verdict might be produced from you. Hence, it is rather difficult to stand in the debate and say something new. Perhaps I have an advantage because I represent and in fact live in an area which has the only mine which is producing and exporting yellow cake. It is interesting to note that yellow cake is not yellow; it is a sort of khaki green. That is a technical item which I am sure is of interest to the House. 
One would be most unkind to suggest that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  was anything but a kindly and fairly well informed honourable member. I have seen him make only one glaring mistake in the House. One night he went to sleep during a division and voted with members, from this side of the House. However, he had himself exorcised the following day and he is back in the fold. Today he went on with a lot of platitudes. He talked about leukaemia and made great generalisations as members of the Opposition are prone to do. But I am not aware of one single shred of specific evidence which can point to any person in any part of the world who is suffering a disability or an illness as a result of either the mining of uranium oxide or ore or from being associated with its treatment. The challenge has gone out. I repeat it again. No doubt many speakers are still to come from the 
Opposition side. Let them produce one shred of evidence. 
I refer to another matter. Quite unashamedly I am dealing with generalities because everything has been said that has to be said about the technical side of uranium. I live with it day and night. I live within a few miles of Mary Kathleen. I refer to the involvement of  Mr Bob  Hawke. There is a media mania about the land which gives the impression that any current affairs program is fairly limp unless it shows this gentleman. So he becomes a sort of continuing commercial. But for what is he a commercial?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you could well ask what has this to do with the uranium question. It has much to do with it because  Mr Hawke  has bought into the argument. He had to do a bit of side stepping because of a major conference. He is the National  President  of the Australian Labor Party and it decided that it would oppose the mining and export of uranium. It talked about a moratorium and about time for debate. All these were delaying factors. As we all know, he is also  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He must get dizzy changing his hats. He changes from the hat of the Australian Labor Party to the hat of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He looks desperately for some sort of a side step. He talks about a referendum which is a delaying factor. 
The democratic processes of this country are still extant. If that man wants to take a decisive part in government, I am sure there will be an opportunity for that. We know that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is departing this House. There will be an opportunity for  Mr Hawke  to come into the House. Then will come the moment of truth. The great figure which the media builds up and pushes down our throats every day and night of the week will suddenly become the pathetic figure which any Australian Labor Party would-be Prime Minister of Prime Minister must eventually become. If the major figure who has bought into the argument on uranium has a loyalty to his unionists will jump when the radical left wing unions crack the whip- I am not a union basher; quite the reverse- then the rest of the nation will ask: 'Who rules this country? The Halfpenny's and all that group?' So it is an impossible situation.  Mr Hawke  should keep well and truly out of this argument or stand for a seat and then take his place in the House. He should put up or shut up. 
In relation to the actual mining and export of uranium, let us look at the whole concept of mining and its contribution to this nation. While we look at that, let us not be deceived by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who has a new tune. I understand that the Labor Party is desperate for arguments. It has some sort of an illusion that there will be an opportunity to get back into office. As we know, that is a farcical illusion. Do honourable members opposite think that people in rural areas are absolute idiots? Time and again I have sat here and heard the people in my area described as galahs and cows. I have been asked: 'Do sheep vote for you? Does grass vote for you? Do trees vote for you? ' We do not forget that-not by a long shot. If the honourable member for Blaxland comes into the House and suggests that country people will abandon their loyalties and their common sense, which is even more important, and be deceived by the suggestion that the mining industry now occupies the minds of members of our party more than the rural people he is making a mistake and honourable members opposite will be as soundly defeated as they have been in the past. 
Nevertheless we must face up to the reality of what the mining industry represents to this nation. It provides over 40 per cent of export income and that figure could probably grow to half by the 1980s. We are a major world supplier. We make our mark in the world at the present moment because of our mineral resources. That influences our trade and our international political relationships. It affects the strength of the currency. It contributes to national development. That is the subject on which I would like to dwell for a little while. How much hypocrisy is there in the world? I suppose that any honourable member on either side of the House- let us forget politics for a momentcould not be content if one person deserving of employment were out of work. It must worry all of us in the House that there is a growing number of unemployed. It is completely and fundamentally hypocritical for people on the Opposition side to say that the Government is contributing to unemployment and that its economic policies are not working; that half a million will be unemployed by the middle of next year. Honourable members opposite hope that for political reasons. They hope that that will be the case. 
Honourable members know full well that supplier after supplier throughout the world, even among the countries for which they have a great affinity- the communist countries- can provide uranium ore to the countries which are crying out for it and they will provide it if we do not supply the goods. So let us get rid of this humbug and hypocrisy. It has been suggested that we would be creating all sorts of difficulties and that half the human race could be wiped out. The Government is asked what it is going to do and how it will dispose of this and that, and so on. Let us set that hypocritical attitude to one side. We know full well that if we do not supply the goods someone else will. One could well be misled if one considered this to be an issue which is at all in the balance in this nation. That opinion is a great illusion. I guarantee that if people in this country were only half informed about the realities of the advantages of exporting uranium, an overwhelming number of people would support the decision which this Government has made. The decision was made after we had made the most minute examination of the safeguards associated with the mining and treatment of uranium ore. 
Other speakers will follow me. I am sure they love a challenge. Therefore I challenge them to answer this statement in the document 'Nuclear Safeguards' which sets out the policy of safeguards which this Government has adopted. 'This is a policy of great stringency'- this is the point- 'more rigorous than that adopted to date by any nuclear supplier country but following a very similar approach to that of the United States and Canada'. If that is an exaggerated statement, if the policy on safeguards is not a strict one, let the speakers who will follow prove it. I refer now to some of the advantages. First and foremost, there is immense wealth for this nation. With that wealth there will be employment for thousands of people, not for the few people associated with the digging and the exporting of the uranium ore- not for a moment. There are all the by-products and all the subsidiary industries associated with the operation. 
I speak with a little authority, because I live in the area in which the only mine in Australia is producing and exporting yellowcake. We know that the Labor Party has for years used the pensioners and the Aboriginals purely for political purposes. The pensioners and the Aboriginals know this. Those who care to take an interest in these matters know this. Again I speak with a little authority, because I have lived among Aboriginal people for most of my life. There is a great advantage to them, not only in dollars and cents. The Labor Party likes to build up this concept that there are a lot of nomad Aboriginals standing around, third, fourth or fifth rate citizens, utterly neglected who would get a few dollars, to get slightly better clothes, go to the pubs and grog up. That is not the situation at all, because the income to the Aboriginal people in the adjacent areas would be quite immense. I hope and trust that the Government will assist the Aboriginal people to gain real and fundamental advantage from the sudden flow of wealth that will be available to them. 
There would be the advent of community areas, not just those associated with the mining of uranium- not for a moment. Out in my part of the world, when one gets into the backblocks, it is remarkable how one thing leads to another in relation to this type of development. It is badly needed. I do not want to get off the subject, but at the moment we see the prospect of the third largest copper producer in this nation closing at least temporarily. 
-Yes, Gunpowder. It could be faced with a situation in which at least the best we could hope for some time would be a sort of caretaker situation. I have been discussing with the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  the possibility of some assistance in this matter. The whole subject is being closely examined. There is absolutely no danger associated with this. The safeguards will be applied. They will be applied effectively and completely, in the same way as other nations are applying safeguards. I think it is interesting to note that this aspect is not being questioned. Members of the Opposition who talk about a moratorium and waiting for another year or another 10 years are not concerned about those who are already mining and exporting uranium to countries which have no particular affinity with ourselves. I say very decisively- I feel I speak for about 99 per cent of the people of Australia - 
In my area, in the areas where this mining operation occurs, I mean. I have no hesitation in saying that 99 per cent of the people there would thoroughly support the immediate mining and export of uranium. 
-Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications at this stage indicate when television facilities will be provided for a number of electorates such as Kennedy, Maranoa, Capricornia, Dawson and Kalgoorlie, which do not yet receive television transmissions? 
I briefly draw attention to a great and disastrous possibility in Queensland. At the moment the State is tinder dry. Auxiliary firemen throughout the whole area quite possibly will withdraw from their responsibilities unless something is done about a 35c premium that is being charged on their taxation. I ask the Government to review this situation. 
In this House today there occurred an incident which I think must be revived during the adjournment debate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in answer to an interjection by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  was obliged to give details of a trip by  Mrs Tamie  Fraser to Sydney to attend a performance by Joan Sutherland. The facts are that the VIP aircraft was due to take off. In fact, the Prime Minister's staff were in the aircraft. He was delayed. It was not for a very important engagement, just a Cabinet meeting on the Budget! He was unable to fulfil his engagement. It was too late for  Mrs Fraser  to get a commercial aircraft, if she should have done so. I am one who believes she should not have. So she travelled to Sydney to attend a very important function. 
The point is that the Leader of the Opposition bought into the argument. A most courteous reference was made by the Prime Minister- any one who was in this House would have noted the tone of his comment- about a trip which was made by  Mrs Whitlam.  How unfortunate it is that we have to bring the womenfolk into this matter at all. I feel that I am shedding my gallantry by mentioning these subjects at all. It was shown conclusively that the wife of the Leader of the Opposition travelled in that aircraft. 
Before I make my final point, may I say that there was another incident of this nature. When  Dr Cairns,  the honourable member for Lalor, was  Deputy  Prime Minister, he authorised a flight by his wife. He had no right to do so. This occurred on 1 June 1975. She was accompanied by a Miss Murray. I do not want to make a great thing of this. The Prime Minister's wife travelled to fulfil an engagement. The Prime Minister was almost on his way out to travel to Sydney. It is pretty obvious that the Leader of the Opposition told a deliberate lie in this House. He told a deliberate he. He said to the Prime Minister: 'My wife did not travel - 

 -Mr Speaker, I have the utmost respect for you, but I feel I really cannot withdraw that remark. 
-I am not putting on any act at all, but I feel there is a principle. 

 -Mr Speaker, I really do not feel inclined to withdraw. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition told a deliberate lie. I feel it should be exposed to this country. He said that his wife did not travel on a VIP aircraft, when she did. 

 -Mr Speaker, I find this a very painful experience. 
-I am sorry,  Mr Speaker,  I cannot. 
-No, the Leader of the Opposition must be exposed for telling a deliberate lie in this House. 
I am not looking for headlines at all. It is a matter of principle. 
-No, I do not feel inclined to do so. 
Will the Minister for Transport advise the House whether any action has been taken in relation to the restoration of the air services between Rockhampton, Barcaldine and Longreach, in Queensland? 
-In a period of 10 minutes it is extremely difficult to deal with any one aspect of our foreign affairs commitment and all that it entails. It is interesting to note that nearly $464m has been allocated for our role in international affairs. I would like to refer to one or two points that the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  made in relation to the subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. That sub-committee did a rather splendid job and produced a very balanced and very valuable report. It would be obvious to that sub-committee, I think, that the only reason why military attaches were not appointed to Middle East countries prior to the reasonably new and rather refreshing era which seems to have opened up in that area was the extra sensitivity that existed in that area. I think that would be one reason which would have prevented what is a fairly obvious requirement from being met. What the future holds remains to be seen. 
I would like to make some comment on one or two aspects of the United Nations and what it has to offer. That organisation has been something of a disappointment to many people who, I think, do not really understand its role. I had the opportunity of being at the United Nations General Assembly for three and a half months. I attended the commemorative session when it was claimed that things were done in a bigger and better way. The interesting thing about that session was that an appeal went out for it to achieve the great objective of the United 
Nations- that is, greater understanding and a genuine and profound approach to world peace, eople said that it was the 25th anniversary and that it should provide an example to the world. It was interesting to note that two of the countries which showed complete lack of co-operation were Iraq and Albania. Surprise, surprise! They did not toe the line. So, that session was not what it was meant to be. 
In retrospect, I would think that one of the most valuable things that a delegate to the United Nations can do is to try to encourage his colleagues in the Parliament to get to that forum of international politics and international affairs generally. The Canadians have a splendid system which I suppose at first glance would not appear possible for us because of the great distances and the expense involved. They rotate their delegates. Every fortnight they send two new delegates and bring two home. I imagine that the system could work with the travelling allowances available to members of this Parliament and that we could send delegates, say, for one month of the three months and give them that tremendous experience. 
The accent in this nation at the moment, perhaps somewhat overdue, is on drug trafficking, on the searching out of those who are responsible for the distribution of drugs and generally contributing to the appalling situation which exists in this country and in other countries. I remember that about 20 to 25 years ago a raid was made on the communist cells in most of the major countries of the world. The person who educated me in this particular matter was a man named Clarrie Fallon. 
He was a man who was dedicated completely to finding out just where the communist activities began and how to deal with them. The raid was made in most of the major cities of the world, according to Clarrie Fallon, a man of profound knowledge who was actively engaged in projecting what was happening throughout the world. One of the edicts that went out in this great secret document was that there should be an attempt to stimulate the trafficking of drugs and to do everything possible to disseminate drugs in a number of countries. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Hunter will remain quiet. The honourable member for Kennedy is doing very well without their help. 
The World Health Organisation is a body of the United Nations Organisation, and this is essentially a part of our consideration of foreign affairs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Leaving aside the last part of the honourable member's point of order, the first part is entirely correct. 
It is a good thing that I am not sensitive or I might ask for withdrawals and all sorts of things. But one has to respect age. About 18 months ago the World Health Organisation sent out a little circular. By the way, I am on its mailing list as I happen to be the  chairman  of my party's drugs committee. The circular describes a two-year investigation into marihuana and the effects of the continuous smoking of marihuana. The investigation was conducted throughout the world and the evidence collected was not from one particular country but an aggregate of what had happened in most countries which were members of the United Nations. I ask anyone who contemplates the promulgation or the decriminalisation of the distribution and smoking of marihuana to note this well: It was proved conclusively that the habitual smoking of marihuana produced deformity in reproduction and sterility in young men. The side effect was conclusively proved - 
It may have been of advantage to this nation if that sterility had occurred amongst the honourable member's forebears, but I do not want to reflect upon the honourable member. The side effect was the production of cancer cells. So it becomes extremely important - 
It is very much a part of foreign affairs. We are part of an organisation and if we are to remain a part of the international family we should be just as much interested in the projected findings of the World Health Organisation of the United Nations as in anything else. I ask the honourable member to try to understand that. I have a few minutes left and I would like to enlarge a little on what has already been said by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and one or two previous speakers. I refer to the rather extraordinary attitude of the Australian Labor Party. I think that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  sent a telegram once when he was overseas but otherwise the Labor Party has turned a blind eye to the slaughter and carnage that is going on in Cambodia. Honourable members opposite are constantly worried- particularly the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on my right- about Fretilin forces and about the great injustices of East Timor. 
It is interesting to note that one of the countries they support, without any apology-we know their alignment and their sympathies- is the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. According to this report, and it is an excellent authority, the USSR has been milder in its criticism of Jakarta 's East Timor venture. It goes on to explain that Soviet Russia is not really interested but China and Hanoi have constantly been barraging the world with the great injustices being perpetrated by the Indonesians. Indonesia is our bulwark and buffer against any threat that might be offering. Last night someone talked about traitors. I would not like to use that expression but one could be forgiven if one interpreted such an attitude as being reasonably traitorous. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address to the Minister for National Resources a question that is of extreme importance to this nation and to the future of its people. The Minister will be aware of concern as to whether existing uranium export contracts will be honoured. Can the Minister see any obstacles in the way of their being honoured? 
-I present a report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry into safety aspects of motor cycles and bicycles in Australia, together with extracts from the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The Committee has presented two reports to Parliament since its appointment, namely reports on passenger motor vehicle safety and heavy vehicle safety. The Committee is currently inquiring into motor cycle and bicycle safety. This work is well advanced. In relation to this inquiry, the Committee has received 178 submissions, heard evidence from 93 witnesses, taken more than 1,800 pages of evidence and received many exhibits. The Committee has also conducted three inspections. The Committee had planned a further two days of public hearings and inspections on this inquiry. Preparation of the Committee's report has commenced. The Committee recommends that it be reconstituted by the new Parliament in order that the inquiry into motor cycle and bicycle safety can be completed and that other areas vital to road safety, such as the human aspect, may be made the subject of inquiry. I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Committee who acted in a most bipartisan manner and were quite intense in their interests in the Committee's activities. I particularly commend  Mr Frank  Hinkley, the Secretary to the Committee, who devoted himself to our interests and the interests of the inquiry in a manner quite beyond what one might expect from such an officer. The various people who worked with him also did a splendid job. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, with a brief comment. As many areas throughtout Australia are still deprived of television reception-centres such as Pentland and Greenvale, with hundreds of meat and mining workers and their families, Aramac, Muttaburra, Jericho, Isisford, Tambo- and as the people in those areas are already underprivileged in so many ways - 
-First of all,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would like you to convey my congratulations to  Sir Billy  Snedden. He is a  Speaker  who is almost impeccable in his control of this House. How well I know it. I think I was the only member suspended in the previous Parliament.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have a special pride in you. You are a fellow Queenslander. I offer to you my warm congratulations. I think the regard in which the previous  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  was held and the appreciation of his character might be summed up by my relating a discussion I heard only a few days ago. A conversation was taking place about the people who were generally popular in this House and who had the affection of all parties and the admiration of everyone in the building. The people who were named were Arthur Calwell,  Senator Condon  Byrne and Phil Lucock. I think that was a great tribute to  Mr Lucock. 
When one represents an electorate of 391,000 square miles which has within its bounds almost every industry- secondary, primary and even tertiary- it is extremely difficult to make a speech encompassing the requirements of an electorate of that nature. Extreme difficulties exist within the boundaries of the electorate. I would like to pinpoint a few of the problems. I have only about 1 1 minutes to do so before the adjournment debate commences. 
First of all I mention defence. I suppose that nothing is of very much significance if the security of our people is abandoned. It is interesting to hear members of this Parliament, particularly members of the Opposition, constantly shedding tears at what happened in East Timor. No one, least of all myself, would ever condone the sort of invasion that has been visualised and dramatised by the media. Apart from that, one must consider the security of this country. It is hogwash and humbug to suggest that the Fretilin forces were some sort of unaligned group which merely wanted to settle in East Timor and establish a nice and happy community. What damn rot! Fretilin was there in the interests of countries which are antagonistic to this nation. It is completely unacceptable that it should have been allowed to establish itself in East Timor or anywhere else. As far as I am concerned, we should accept the security of agreements and friendship with Indonesia. So much for defence and foreign policy. 
The only other thing I add is that in matters of surveillance no one is more aware of the dangers that can occur not only to the morality of this nation but also to the security of this nation by the constant bringing in of drugs and so on than we people who live in the frontier areas. When we cannot provide physical surveillance we must look to things such as the Jindalee radar system which is probably superior to anything else in the world. It is something of which we can be immensely proud. I would think that we would see this being used to a much greater extent than it is at the moment. I should like to say much more on the subject of defence, but time simply does not permit. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government on reviving the Department of National Development, which is of extreme importance to we who represent vast areas which have limited development but nevertheless require the specialised attention of a Minister whose sole duty it is to look to the development of the nation. Within his jurisdiction is the matter of water resources. We have already been advised by him that more than a significant role will be played by the Government in that regard. If I may become a little parochial, I would suggest to the Government that at this early stage it consider making a further grant for the development of the Julius Dam, because when we think of national development we must consider that project as being very much a significant part of this country's development. The waters of Lake Julius are required for the development of one of the largest mining complexes in not just Australia but the world. Mount Isa Mines is one of the most significant mining operations in the world, and in the near future additional supplies of water could be sadly needed there. 
A number of honourable members have mentioned that we look anxiously to the Government to reintroduce the petrol equalisation which was ruthlessly stripped from us by the Whitlam Government, and in quick time if I may say so. Before I leave the subject of the Department of National Development I would appeal to the Government to consider again reviving also the Department of Northern Development. It is said that Ministers, in their various capacities, have at heart the welfare and prosperity of the nation as a whole. That is understandable. I have been a Minister and know what these huge responsibilities incur, but where there exists such a massive example of underprivilege it requires the attention of a Minister who would look to the special needs of the northern area and present its case to the Ministry generally. I do appeal to the Government in that regard. When funds are more readily available, and the nation is even more assured that it is on the road to prosperity, I would hope that my request would be well and truly considered. 
I have already mentioned the huge size, 391,000 square miles, of my electorate. Within its borders are found just about every industry one could imagine- beef, wool, mining, dairying, sugar, grains, cotton, fruit and even peanuts. The newly-acquired South Burnett area which, as you well know  Mr Deputy Speaker,  was formerly a part of your electorate, is probably the most prolific peanut-producing area in Australia. One other interesting attribute of my electorate is its attractiveness for film production. Next Tuesday night I will have the great privilege of attending the world premiere of  The Irishman,  which was made in Charters Towers. At least part of  The Mango Tree  was made in Gayndah, and I think most of the remainder in your electorate, so we may take much pride from that,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
One of the matters that really bugs me, if I may use that term, and has constantly caused us almost to burst with frustration, is the matter of bringing television to isolated areas. I would not know how many times I have stood here and pleaded with the Government to consider the early installation of TV in areas which, in 24 years have not even seen a test pattern. It has been approved. The television service extension program approved by the Government about a month prior to the election was most encouraging. It covered most of the areas that at present require television services but many were not included. I can think of one or two in my own electorate; Isisford and Muttaburra come immediately to mind. I plead with the Government to give these people that amenity. After all- we say this time and again- the great wealth of this nation is produced in those areas. 
One other matter with which I wish to deal briefly is the mining industry. One sector of it that does not receive much airing in this Parliament or anywhere else is the coal mining industry. It seems that everyone regards coal miners generally as being a group of people who constantly strike and constantly cause trouble. That is not right. If justice is where it should be, it must be appreciated that with all the advances and technical improvements that have been made coal miners still have a hazardous existence. Those men who work underground take their lives in their hands every time they strike a blow to produce more coal. One of the most tragic incidents in this country in many years- regrettably it occurred in the Kennedy electorate- occurred at Kianga when 13 lives were lost in one split second. I do not think that in the production or the treatment of uranium there is anything that would be commensurate with or even approach that disaster. 
Let me say very emphatically so that there will be no doubts at all- I suppose I should declare myself in this matter because in my electorate I have the only mine that is operating and producing uranium in the whole of this nation; that is at Mary Kathleen- that I support the production of uranium at the earliest possible date. We have waited far too long for action to be taken for the Government to give the go-ahead at the earliest opportunity. 
-We have pandered to these humbugs some of whom are here now. We have pandered to ecologists, the extremists. It is about time we got down to the business of mining and exporting uranium. The sooner we do it the better. I want where I stand in this matter to be clearly understood. 
-Another item in respect of which I believe honourable members opposite who were in the Labor Government maliciously ripped off we people in inland and rural areas was the rural unemployment scheme.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope you will not have the occasion to suspend me from service in this House as I was suspended with my leader because we could not sit here and see honourable members opposite, then in government with the ultimate in hypocrisy, claiming that they had the interests of the workers at heart. Perhaps they had the interests of some little group of workers on whom they depended for their endorsements and so on, but when it came to the rural workers of this nation they could not give a damn. They never have. The so-called Labor Party or what is left of it has completely treated with contempt the workers of rural areas. They ripped us off and brought the rural unemployment scheme to a standstill. I appeal to the Government to look again at the possibilities of providing a specialised rural unemployment scheme and to restore what was taken away from us by the Labor Party. 
Much could be said about drugs. I had the interesting experience of being  chairman  of my Party's drug committee. The information we received was quite staggering, particularly in the far North.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  by arrangement I have agreed to terminate my address to the House at 10.29. 1 just wish to say that I hope that the matters I have mentioned here tonight receive the attention of the Government. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Macphee)  adjourned. 
-Very briefly I want to add some comment to what the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has said. Probably the most ciritical issue that has occupied the minds of members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, of which I have had the privilege of being  Chairman  on the last two occasions, is the matter of the establishment of a statutory authority being vested in a group within the Department of Transport which we hope will accept and give effect to the recommendations that are made by the Committee. It is generally agreed that a committee's work is evaluated on the matter to which it is being applied and how relevant it is to the daily lives of the people involved. We feel that the responsibility of this Committee is extremely critical. We had the experience of a visit to the spinal surgery section of the Royal North Shore Hospital in Sydney. We saw a whole ward of people there who are absolute vegetables. They were the victims of motor cycle accidents. 
Let me come back to the matter of the authority of the particular section of the Department which would administer this responsibility. I point out that very early in the life of the previous Parliament we had discussions with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who gave an assurance to the Committee that, although the statutory authority would not be created, there would be vested in this group of people the necessary authority and independence to give effect to our recommendations. The Committee took evidence from bodies such as the Road Trauma Committee of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons and many other experts. There was quite a galaxy of stars. I mean that quite seriously. We heard from people such as  Dr Michael  Henderson and Professor Jobert. Ralph Nader came over from the United States of America to appear before our Committee. We had as a semi-permanent consultant Peter Wherrett of Australian Broadcasting Commission fame.. The Road Trauma Committee of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons has come to grips with the human tragedy associated with this problem. At about this time last year an international congress was held here of its related bodies from all over the world. We had here an array of surgeons associated with road trauma. They indicated that it was essential to have a body of people with a lot of muscle to give effect to the demands which result from an inquiry such as ours. If I have the privilege of chairing this Committee again I propose that we should meet the Minister again and discuss in great detail the recommendations that have been made and the manner in which they will be put into effect, with particular reference to the matter of uniformity. It might interest the House to know that we found the lamentable situation that accident reports are different in each State. Thus it is impossible to process and computerise data coming in from all the States. That situation is criminal. It does not do very much to cut down the carnage on the roads. During the previous year something like 3,680 people were killed on Australian roads. 
The States must carry the responsibility for not facing up to the fact that, in a simple matter like road accident reports, no two reports from different States are exactly the same. The situation is absolutely lamentable. Surely to goodness State sovereignty should play second fiddle to means of cutting down the carnage on Australian roads. In conclusion let me say that the work of the Committee has been carried out in a non-political way. Members argue things out. It is a very good Committee because the people who serve on it realise their very heavy responsibility. I repeat that, as soon as the Committee gets back into action, whoever its members may be, I am sure that an early discussion will be sought with the Minister to clarify the Government's approach. 
I briefly preface my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources by pointing out that the mining and export of uranium is of particular concern to the people in the northern part of this continent and in my own home areas we have the only mine which produces and exports uranium at Mary Kathleen. Is the Minister satisfied that there are now no difficulties in the way of honouring in full Australia's contract for the supply of uranium to overseas customers? 

 -Mr Speaker. I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  said that he apologises publicly to the people who are present, for whom he has been performing and putting on a charade. That is why I rise to speak to this Bill and the amendments. The hypocrisy that has been exhibited here tonight by these people who are masters of it is absolutely appalling. I will now speak some truths for the Aboriginal people with whom I grew up. Many more black people than white people nursed me when I was a child. I accuse the majority of people sitting on the Australian Labor Party benches of being utterly racist. Let me explain that. It applies to the whole Bill - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member for Kennedy to moderate his comments. I call the honourable member for Kennedy. 
-I submit that I said that they were all mainly racist, and I have not identified any individuals. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will recall that the honourable member for Kennedy used a generalisation. It is not appropriate that the remark be withdrawn in these circumstances. I call the honourable member for Kennedy. 
-I am a gentle soul; I never try to offend anybody. I am like these people about whom we are speaking. I shall relate to the Committee one or two incidents that have occurred in this place. When I was shadow Minister for Northern Australia I sat at the table opposite a Minister of the Whitlam Government. On the adjournment- I ask the people in the galleries to note this well- a member of the Labor Party rose to speak on the Aboriginal question. The Ministerthe Labor Minister- said: 'He is not going to waste bloody time again. There is not a vote in that mob. ' That is what the Aboriginals means to honourable members opposite. Certainly I am emotional. I have grown up among these people. 
Am I telling lies? You prove it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Kennedy will address the Chair. The House will come to order. 
Now let me say something that is far more personal. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is an exception to what I am about to say because he was gentleman enough to come across to me and apologise for what a member of his Party said to me. Every time I have said anything that was reputed to be offensiveI ask our Aboriginal friends here to note this- I have been subject to a sort of racist attitude. When members of the Australian Labor Party wanted to just prick my skin a little they would call me 'camel driver' or make some such comment. Do you know why they made those comments- because my skin is a little like yours. 
So I have tolerated racism. Opposition members speak here with their mealy mouths. They have never lived among you; they know nothing about you; and yet they show this hypocritical attitude in relation to this Bill. They are a pack of hypocrites and the quicker it is known the better. I make exceptions; there are new members here who may have no part of that; but I have been subject to it time and again in the House. You and I share this persecution of racism. So remember that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Kennedy will address the Chair. He should direct his remarks to the amendments. 
I issue this challenge to the Leader of the Opposition, who was gentleman enough to come across and say: 'I want no part of the comments that were made'. Bill Hayden came across and said that. I challenge him to say when any Government supporter has ever uttered one racist comment about any member of his Party. I challenge him to come forward and deliver the goods. Behind all this is a very fundamental principle- the principle of real concern for the Aboriginal people. One can have that concern only if he understands them and has lived among them. What on earth would the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable members for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  know about Aboriginals? They have never had a thing to do with them. I am sick and tired of their mealy-mouthed hypocrisy. Let us hear from them something that is a bit fair dinkum. That is the only principle I want to bring forward here tonight- a little bit of fair dinkumness, not a lot of mealy-mouthed hypocrisy. They have no concern for the Aboriginals. They never have and they are never likely to have. The Labor Minister said: 'There are no more votes in it. What the hell are we wasting time for?' Votes- that is all Aboriginals mean to the Labor Party. 
I address a question to a Minister who made a tremendous impact on the nation with his splendid appearance on the television program,  This Day Tonight,  the night before last. I refer to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask: In the light of the trade figures published today, can the Minister indicate whether he is satisfied with Australia's export performance and whether there is a need for the Government to take special action to achieve a better trade situation? Finally, what are the general prospects for rural exports, particularly beef? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen newspaper reports referring to the possibility that the Federal Government may subsidise the sale of 60,000 tonnes of beef to Russia? Can the Minister inform the House of the truth of these reports and the general position regarding orders for beef from Russia? 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources say what prospects there are for the sale of Australian iron ore to China, particularly in view of the downturn in the steel industry around the world? 
My question, which is directed to the Acting Prime Minister, refers to the future of the Duchess phosphate operation in Queensland. Is the Acting Prime Minister aware of the very deep concern being felt, not only in Queensland but also throughout Australia, at the decision by Broken Hill South to close its operations at Duchess and of the implications of this for the future of Australian agriculture? 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Road Safety, I present the report on motor cycle and bicycle safety, together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The motorcycle and bicycle safety report which has just been tabled is the first report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, established in the Thirty-first Parliament. This report is the third in a series that the Committee has prepared on safety aspects of vehicles using public roads. Previous reports on this aspect of road safety have related to passenger motor vehicle safety- tabled on 2 June 1976- and heavy vehicle safety-tabled on 3 1 May 1 977. 
A substantial part of the work associated with the motorcycle and bicycle safety inquiry was undertaken by the Committee in the Thirtieth Parliament. The present Committee took final evidence on this inquiry at two further public hearings and appointed a sub-committee consisting of three, who were members of the previous Committee, to consider the draft report. The subcommittee report has been adopted by the Committee as the report on motorcycle and bicycle safety. I mention that the two other members of the sub-committee are present in the House. One is a former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who made a splendid contribution and who, I must confess, carried out a major part of the work involved in the report. The other member is the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who, as a former  president  of the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce, is representative of the expertise and experience we had on the sub-committee. So we had the advantage of having a good deal of talent, expertise and experience. In adopting the subcommittee report the Committee points out that that report does not necessarily convey specific views of the Committee members not being members of the sub-committee. 
During the course of the motorcycle and bicycle safety inquiry the Committee held 11 public hearings, one in camera hearing and attended six inspections. The Committee was extremely pleased to receive a large number of submissions from individual motorcycle riders and bicyclists. In all, 181 submissions were received during the inquiry and 1 12 witnesses appeared before the Committee. That illustrates the intense interest in the great difficulties which exist in trying to find a solution to this tragic problem. 
The Committee throughout the inquiry concentrated its attention on the nature and extent of problems related to motorcycle and bicycle safety and measures by which the safety of these vehicles could be improved. The 58 recommendations in the report cover a wide range of matters and are a reflection of the detailed attention given to these problems by the Committee. Many of the recommendations relate to improvements in vehicle safety in important areas such as design and inspection, braking, steering and handling, tyres and wheels, rear view mirrors, as well as the visibility of these vehicles and their lighting. Recommendations have also been made in a number of other areas relating to helmets and visors; applicability of road rules to riders and cyclists as well as their training and licensing; other road and environmental factors; and safety related publicity campaigns. 
The Committee considers it imperative that these recommendations be acted upon and I, and I am sure other members of the Road Safety Committee, therefore welcome the recently announced decision on 25 May 1978 by the Government to have the responsible Minister report to Parliament on proposed Government action on parliamentary Committee reports. The Committee would welcome such a statement not only on the report just tabled but also on its two earlier reports on passenger motor vehicle and heavy vehicle safety. 
I would also like briefly to refer to 2 other matters. In each of the inquiries conducted by the Committee, we have been impressed by the urgent need to implement a uniform accident report form throughout Australia. Honourable members can imagine how utterly impossible it is to get an overall concept, an overall pattern, regarding the increasing number of fatalities and casualties on our roads when we cannot computerise because of the lack of a uniform accident form. This is a very serious impediment. The first recommendation of this report urges States and Territories to amend their road accident report forms to include a list of common items recently endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Comprehensive data collected on a more uniform basis will, the Committee feels, enable more accurate assessment of safety measures introduced and assist in determining areas requiring priority attention in the future. 
As part of its role as a standing committee the Committee intends looking at the Office of Road Safety within the Department of Transport, which was set up to replace the Road Safety and Standards Authority. The Committee will look at the functions of the Office of Road Safety and reexamine the question of whether or not such a body should have the powers of a statutory authority. 
The detailed work of this Committee over a period of years involved the examination of dozens of highly qualified and responsible witnesses some of whom, I might mention, have international status. As a homely example, Ralph Nader gave his views on the consumer side of things. We had Peter Wherrett travelling with us for some time. We also had the directors of the Mercedes-Benz Company from Stuttgart in Germany. We had world authorities associated with the Volvo organisation and so on. 
The Volvo is an extremely safe vehicle. It is interesting to note- without indulging in commercials- that it is regarded as one of the safer vehicles, and I will say no more than that. 
The detailed work of this Committee over a period of years, the examination of dozens of highly qualified and responsible witnesses, together with the Committee 's recommendations would all be quite futile unless there is a competent independent body which can on a national basis apply with sufficient authority the worthwhile recommendations of this Committee, and that is a very serious aspect of our commitment and a very important responsibility. In terms of human tragedy no Committee has a greater or more serious responsibility. Clear evidence of this responsibility was apparent to the Committee when it visited the wards of the Spinal Unit in the Royal North Shore Hospital in Sydney. There the Committee saw numerous patients with spinal cord injury resulting from motorcycle accidents. 
I would like to thank members of the present and former Committee for the contribution they made in gathering the information upon which this report is based and also, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank  Mr Frank  Hinckley, who did a job beyond what one would expect of an officer of his status, Kristin Grimsley and Margaret Ray who provided assistance as the secretariat to the Committee and to the Committee 's specialist advisers,  Dr Wigan  and  Mr Milne,  who always were there to provide the necessary expert comments when required. I commend the report to the House but would mention to honourable members that at this stage there are only limited copies of the report available which have been placed in the Table Office and the Library. I therefore seek leave to have the recommendations of the report incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The recommendations read as follows- 

House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety 
I thank the House. 
Is the Acting Prime Minister aware of reports today that he is again going to ask Cabinet to provide financial assistance for BH South Ltd so that rock phosphate mining at The Monument in Queensland can continue? 
Are these reports correct? Further, can the Acting Prime Minister advise the House of the outcome of his discussions last Friday with the phosphate manufacturers, BH South Ltd, and the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission? 
I should like to state the obvious: People with a genuine sense of responsibility have claimed that this Budget perhaps is one of the most courageous, and certainly one of the most responsible, that we have seen presented during the history of the Australian Parliament. Of course, we have heard from members of the old team which demonstrates about everything that might lead to the financial security and the general security of this country. We are used to their behaviour. Anyone who is honest, anyone who has moved around this country and has attempted logically and sensibly to take a cross-section of opinion, would be amazed at the general acceptance of the harsh measures contained in the Budget. It is not very pleasant for any government to raise the price of ordinary commodities which are attractive to the average Australian, such as beer and smokes. This was done because it had to be done. The Budget generally received acceptance. 
One aspect of the Budget on which I would like to comment is the rise in the price of fuel. Petrol and distillate is critical to a number of Australians- to people associated with agriculture, to people associated with the grazing industry, the hauliers and so on. We must remember, of course, that dependent on those people are the great provincial cities and the metropolitan areas of this nation. It would be a sad and sorry spectacle if the hinterland of this nation began to shrink and began to suffer continuous economic disadvantages. This nation soon would be brought to its knees. So we are all in this together. If we in this particular section of the House are accused at times of being a little parochial and of crying havoc for the country people, honourable members should bear in mind that we are interdependent. This is obvious to responsible people. I have just completed a 2,000 mile trip through a fairly wide crosssection of this country. 
It is still a fairly wide crosssection of this country. I was able to evaluate the reaction of people who will be very seriously affected by this rise in the price of fuel. It is not simply one of those reactions that come and go after a Budget. I have been presented with figures showing the additional costs which will be incurred by people who, at the moment, cannot bear any further costs. 
I should like to leave that subject for one moment and deal with another aspect of activity in the areas that I represent. In my electorate we have what could become a crisis. I am referring to the closing down- God forbid- of the nickel mine at Greenvale. Not only is the mine involved; the smelters north of Townsville would suffer also. If the mine were to close down, the smelters also would close down. It has been revealed that as a direct result of the rise in the price of fuel this company probably will be paying an additional $3m a year. Anyone who has any knowledge of this particular operation will be aware that there has been no margin for error in its operations. I make a profound appeal to our Government to consider this matter seriously. I know that consideration is being given to it already.  Mr Knox,  the Queensland treasurer, has flown down to confer with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have contacted the Prime Minister, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and my own leader, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  about this very serious matter. 
I would like the Government to examine a system that I believe has been accepted and introduced in the United States. The Government should consider introducing two-tier pricing for fuel. I am led to believe- I think the information is completely accurate- that a twotier fuel pricing policy exists in the United States. It is strictly policed to the point where each of the particular fuels is a different colour. Any attempt by people to defraud the government by using the fuel that is available to the agricultural section of the community, and those dependent on that section, could result in them being in serious trouble. I do not have the precise figures available to me but I have been told that the fuel is available to farmers and people of that nature who are utterly dependent for their existence and the continuation of their industry on paying 40 cents a gallon. I appeal to the Government to examine this proposition and see whether there could be a two-tier pricing policy for fuel in this country. I certainly hope that this will produce some results. 
We have been told that there is to be a further investigation into the price of petrol and other fuel commodities in country areas following the introduction of the fuel price equalisation scheme which has helped the agricultural industry considerably. In outback areas fuel already has reached 28 cents a litre. 
It has reached 28 cents a litre. That would be only the beginning. This seriously affects we people who are resident in those areas, particularly people on the land who are so dependent on both distillate and petroleum. Honourable members should remember that many large scale implements, such as great giant headers, still run on petrol. I think we are inclined to overlook the fact that many peoplehauliers, tourists and trade representativesfrom the metropolitan and the provincial city areas go into the outlying areas. They, in turn, have to suffer this penalty. They begin to realise, no doubt, the permanent penalty which people in the country areas have to endure. So much for fuel. I would hope that some developments will take place which will take the pressure off people who already are in a very serious situation. 
I turn now to the beef industry. I should like to refer briefly to the package deal which was presented by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about this time last year. It was a very generous concept. It was evolved by the Government and presented to this House by the Minister for Primary Industry. It came at a time when people associated with the beef cattle industry were looking for something of this nature. Let us have a look at what that package deal presented. It suggested that there should be an examination with the object of bringing greater equality of profit sharing into the industry. It suggested that there should be a greater balance of profits between the producer and the exporter. At that time record profits were being earned by the exporters. The deal also informed those who were involved that beef classification was being regarded as a matter of great urgency. Until classification became a national operation it was not possible to look at a reasonable and stable marketing scheme which would bring long-term security to the beef cattle industry. 
The third measure to which the Minister for Primary Industry referred was an examination by the Prices Justification Tribunal of the marketing of beef in this country, again with the object of bringing a greater share of the profits to the producers. We know that this is being done but to what extent that inquiry will probe remains to be seen. It needs to be a deep and continuing operation. A hit-and-run type of examination would perhaps reveal certain imbalances but a few months later we would revert to the old system. We do not want that to happen. The final matter mentioned in that particular address to the House was the examination of the conditions under which people who are involved in the beef industry live, their quality of life and the costs with which they have to contend. The idea was to examine the whole structure of their way of life with the object of bringing far greater equality to those people, something commensurate with the advantages enjoyed by people in urban areas. Needless to say the whole of that deal was a great morale booster. It was greatly appreciated. I hope that all of those matters are well and truly proceeding. 
I want to refer briefly to a matter which may appear to be parochial but which certainly is not, that is, a project in my own area known as the Julius Dam project. I have spoken about this matter in the House time and again. It could be argued that if funds or grants were made available for this project it would be creating a precedent, that there is nothing to support it. This is not the case at all. The Mount Isa mining complex contributes very considerably, to the Treasury of this nation, as I am sure the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  would concede. It is a large complex, it is a great money earning complex and it is terribly important to the economy of this country. It is part of the general pattern of the continuing efficiency of that operation and the people in that area. I hope most sincerely that the Government will, as it did last year, consider the provision of some financial aid commensurate with the need of that particular project. I hope that we will have some favourable news about the project in the near future. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the rest of us who represent country areas know that one of the areas in which we never seem to make any progress is the area of television. I ask the House and the nation just for a moment to transpose their particular way of life to those remote areas where one never sees a test pattern and one is obliged to listen to some of the garbage that comes over the Australian Broadcasting Commission each and every evening from people who are so near to being out and out radicals, communists and that type of thing. It is nothing new to those of us on this side of the House. We hear it time and again from the new breed of Labor politicians. But for those people to have to endure that type of garbage and have no alternative is an imposition that I think should be removed and removed quite urgently. In addition, the people in the remote areas have only one television channel to look at. Many people in Australia might like motor racing and find it a very exciting sport, but when one has only one channel to look at and one has no alternative for the whole of Sunday afternoon but to look at motor racing it is not wildly exciting. 
However, getting back to my original comment in relation to having any sort of television reception, for 24 years the majority of the people of this nation have enjoyed the amenity of having four channels to watch, although in many centres there are only two channels. The extraordinary thing about this is that every one of the people in the isolated areas is an important element in the fabric of the money earning capacity of this nation. There are no parasites. They are people who are sustaining the industries which produce the billions of dollars which come into the coffers of this nation. I think it is high time that improved television reception was introduced. How many millions of dollars would it take to spread television signals into that area? I believe, from certain information that seems to be around the corridors at the moment, that we may have television satellites before very much longer. Of course, this would be the solution to the whole problem. In the meantime let us have the scheme that has been approved and then fill in the gaps. 
I say again, having moved among all sections of the community, in a great part of this country, that the people are proud of this Budget. The point about honourable members on the other side of the House is that they cling to straws. They rely on the same old team to go out and demonstrate and to say: 'Okay, 1, 2, 3- out into the streets. Start waving flags. Run the Budget down. Get the media to support us'. The responsible people of this nation and the international community have acclaimed this Budget as one of the most courageous and one of the greatest Budgets of our era. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. In answer to a question yesterday concerning the dumping of sugar in Papua New Guinea by the European Economic Community, he indicated that his Department would be consulting the industry on what measures Australia will be taking against the EEC under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade arrangements. When will these consultations take place? 
I would like, first of all, to express my admiration for the Minister who previously held the portfolio of administrative services and to express my very warm welcome to his successor. Anyone who knows Fred Chaney knows that he is a very capable person and a person who has a very high degree of integrity. I think he will do great justice to his very important portfolio. 
I want to speak on just two subjects tonight. Both may appear, in the general orbit of things, to be a little trivial; but I assure you  Mr Deputy Chairman  that to honourable members of this chamber that is not the case. The first matter I would like to discuss is our Commonwealth cars. I make a very earnest appeal to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to examine the whole of this subject in detail. I do not think any of us are convinced that there has been any great advantage in confining us to our own Commonwealth drivers for limited periods. To a greater degree we have found this to be an intrusion, and I do not use that word with any intention at ali of being offensive to the hire car drivers or the taxi drivers. Some taxi drivers, particularly those in Sydney, are a very wonderful group of people. But we have a loyalty to our own drivers. There is much more involved than just some sort of an emotional loyalty. We hear much these days of the matter of security. When would a member be more vulnerable than on a long drive home on a dark night with a driver he has never seen before in his life? Our drivers are subjected to all sorts of training- training in courtesy and training to fit them to handle a vehicle safely. Our drivers are pretty well the finished article. 
In addition, there is the matter of confidentiality. There is not a man in this chamber who, when being driven in a Commonwealth car, does not feel that he is quite free to discuss matters such as we are obliged to do or we take advantage of doing when a couple of us are being driven from the airport in the one car. All that confidentiality has been reduced considerably. Also, when a member travels to another State he usually travels to the far corners of that State. When travelling with a Commonwealth driver it is very relaxing to talk one's own language and to talk to someone who understands just how one is feeling at the end of a fairly tedious week. These matters may appear to be fairly trivial, but they are not: They are terribly important to us. It is tike our eating facilities. We are obliged to accept these things and therefore they should be at a standard which is acceptable to us. There is only one thing that we want and that is to go back completely to having the Commonwealth drivers look after us and drive us in their vehicles. 
Let me get away from that subject for a moment and refer to another matter- using my electorate as an example, again at the risk of appearing to be parochial in this matter. Before I make my remarks for your consideration,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and for the consideration of honourable members, I submit that anything I say in relation to the electorate that I represent could very well apply to at least the other sprawling, large rural electorates of this nation- and there are quite a few of them. Many of my remarks would apply to any electorate, whether it be urban or rural. The first thing I ask the Department of Administrative Services to do is to devote just some of that $278,738,000 to improving in many ways our ability to get through to and to create an effective liaison and physical contact with the groups of people we represent. All of us know that that is a terribly difficult thing to do and I am sure that all of us on both sides of the chamber have as our ultimate desire the ability to come into contact with the greatest possible number of people in our electorates. 
When one has an electorate of 420,000 square miles such as I have or an electorate of the size of that represented so capably by my friend, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  or of the size of so many other electorates throughout this country, it would appear at first glance as though we have an impossible task. I remember well one very rainy night when Arthur Calwell gave me a lift after dinner from the Hotel Kurrajong back to Parliament House. He said to me: 'Now that I have you in the car on your own, I will tell you something: I wouldn't accept $100,000 a year to represent Kennedy'. Well, frankly, I would. 
I thank the Minister. 
-Only under duress. Costs may be taken into account. I shudder when I think of the amount of my telephone bill. If I am asked why my telephone bill is so high, I have a very simple answer. In most parts of large country and semi-rural electorates officers of departments are not available for a pensioner or someone who is disadvantaged- it is that sort of person whom we mainly try to look after- to contact. I always think that the test of a politician is his ability to give the greatest help to those people who need it most- the less privileged, the less intelligent if you like and the less favoured. In order to do that the person telephones the member, the member rings the department and if he cannot talk to the Minister or to one of his senior officials, he gets on to someone else. That person phones the member back and the member phones the person who contacted him in the first place. The telephone bill is very high when the member has to pay for all of these trunk line calls these days. 
What I am arguing is that in these very large electorates, such as Maranoa and Kennedy, there should be two electorate officers. That has been approved for the honourable member for the Northern Territory and, God bless him, Sam Calder needs it; so does Mick Cotter in his huge electorate of Kalgoorlie; so do the other large electorates in this nation. Why should there be two offices? Is it because the honourable member wants the extra responsiblity of additional staff? Not for one moment. The position is that there are different characteristics in an electorate. If one moves from one end of an electorate such as Maranoa, if you like- let me get away from Kennedy for a moment- one will notice different characteristics. Within that electorate is the Darling Downs which is a closely settled area where people have so much in common- the outlook of the grain grower and his particular characteristics. Out around Charleville is an entirely different group of people. 
The same applies in my electorate of Kennedy. In Mount Isa is a mining community. In the environs around Mount Isa are the cattle raisers which are a breed of their own- I do not mean the cattle, I mean the cattle raisers. In the southern part, in the extremities, say, the Burnett Valley, are people with a different attitude. For those people who are not informed- we all cannot be sufficiently informed in these mattersfruit growers, grain growers and small farmers live in that area. So the member for such an electorate should have an office in which the staff is capable of assessing the needs and the particular characteristics of the type of person in that area. 
In addition, I want to mention the matter that I raised earlier and that is that the member should give the service which can be achieved only through physical contact with the various groups of people. In order to do that, travel facilities must be made as reasonable and sensible as possible. Again I always hesitate to raise this matter because I do not want any more money, salary or allowances; what I want is the ability to get to the people in my electorate and to serve them. Again may I say that the comments that I make in relation to the electorates of Kennedy and Maranoa would apply equally, but to a more or a lesser degree, to every electorate in Australia. I am not one of those people who appreciates the general view of a politician. I get sick of this attitude and I resent it. I thoroughly resent some of the cartoons. I have had a lot of almost affection for  Mr Pickering  through his cartoons but I think his cartoon on the front page of the  Australian  the other day was utterly offensive to every member of Parliament. In it one kid says to another 'Is your dad still in politics?' The other says: 'No, he has decided to go straight'. That is not funny. What is funny about that? Are we here to be shot at? 
The point that I make is that in our heart of hearts, if we have one ounce of integrity and decency, we want to serve our people in the most effective manner. That is the make up of every politician, on whichever side of the House he sits. I think the Government has a tremendous obligation in this matter. Even if it has to save money, it should not save it at the expense of our ability and capacity to come into close physical contact with the groups of people that we represent. Let them get at us; let them talk to us. Any politician who puts himself in an ivory tower is not worth his salt. That is my appeal tonight: That the Department of Administrative Services do something about the matter. I think the Minister will do everything possible. I most certainly hope that he will. 
I hope that my question is re- " freshing after all the muck that has been slung around this chamber this morning. 
-First of all, might I take this opportunity to express thanks to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I do not want to talk about the Sub-Committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which I have the privilege of chairing because eventually its report will be produced and tabled and that will be the correct time to bring up matters that are coming forward and that will come forward in relation to this inquiry. But I would not like the opportunity to pass without thanking the Minister for the complete manner in which he has co-operated with that Sub-Committee. He has made transport available to us to all areas of Australia, however remote. We have been to some fairly odd places which it would have been quite impossible to visit without the assistance of the Royal Australian Air Force. I also should like to thank the Minister for at all times making available his officers, whomever we might have wanted, and I would hope that this co-operation would continue. 
Before I depart from this particular subject, might I say that I think the present Minister for Defence has based his approach and his attitude on two matters- money and morale. I think the morale of the forces, depleted though they be, is of a very high nature, particularly in comparison with what it was just a few years ago. Each branch of the Defence Force was in a very sorry state in regard to the matter that is of most importance as regards the defence of this country, that is, the morale of the people involved. 
In relation to the money side, I well remember an informal discussion that I had with the Minister prior to the previous Budget when he was deeply distressed as to just what funds would be available- never mind what he wanted. We- and when I say 'we', I mean all people in this chamber who were involved, whether on government committees or standing or select committees- co-operated in getting behind the Minister to try to provide for  him  as much money as possible for the Defence vote. I feel the Minister might have been a little sad when, in presenting his statement, he made this comment: 
This year's amount for defence is larger in real terms than any since the last Budget of the McMahon Government. 
Having had the privilege of being a Minister in that particular Government, I know just how funds were depleted and just how terribly difficult it was to balance the budget at that time. So, if we are using that time as a touchstone, how much more difficult it now must be for the Minister and those associated with him to provide this nation with the sort of defence that is required, even at an actual minimum. 
Another matter which the Minister mentioned in the course of the presentation of his statement was this: 
This Government will have no pan of any procurement organisation which does not, from beginning to end, directly involve the Chiefs of Staff and their advisers and experienced Defence officers in the defence equipment acquisition process. 
I am sure that there is no one at all who would not commend the Minister for that statement. But in so doing, we would presume that the high degree of expertise that is required, particularly in matters of procurement, stock-taking, if one likes, and of balancing the budget in relation to both the financing associated with procurement and the nuts and bolts, naturally would not be expected to be found amongst our uniformed people. But, for heavens sake, it would be a sad day for this nation and for the Department of Defence if these people should be isolated, if they should be given a particular command which would not associate them as closely as possible with the uniformed Chiefs of Staff. So I thoroughly agree with and stand four-square with the Minister in that matter. 
That brings me to the matter of this continuing conflict which appears to exist between civilians and our Defence personnel. I am afraid that we who have been associated with the defence picture in one way or another over a period of years have never been able to get away from that particular problem. We see this inevitable conflict between civilians and the uniformed people of our Defence Force. This has led to great difficulties and it is a matter which requires the closest of examination. We have seen the tide rise and fall as regards this conflict. During my time as a Minister, I saw a great struggle taking place to keep the major part of command in the hands of the uniformed personnel. On the Opposition side, there was a conflict. Members opposite kept dodging realities. There was an attempt to bring across to the defence forces generally a great measure of civilian control. It did happen, and I am one who has never ceased to feel that it went a little too far. 
I now move to the question of threats and friends; and one is inevitably tied up with the other. We are going through a very uneasy period. Anyone who would suggest for a moment that the defence of this country is something that has to be merely a gesture- something that has to be dressed up and ready to provide some sort of an emergency force if some sort of a threat is forthcoming- does not read the newspapers, does not study international affairs and is not at all aware of the various pressures that are building up dangerously. These pressures can be found almost anywhere. I instance the African continent. What a deterioration we have seen there. 
I wonder how anyone in his right senses could describe this as an era of peace. I saw an article the other day concerning the United Nations and suggesting that the United Nations was not very much in business these days because we were experiencing an era of peace. Is it an era of peace to see what is happening in Rhodesia and its surrounding countries? There is the slaughter in Lebanon; probably one of the most tragic bloodbaths in history per head of population. That is no exaggerated statement. Yet the responsible people of this world can turn their heads the other way and say that it is not happening. If they have no feeling for what is happening in those areas then let them look at what is happening with the various defence pressures that are building up. If we find some consolation in saying that it is a long way from here, let us look at what is happening again in Vietnam. My colleague, the honourable member for St George,  (Mr Neil)  a little while ago drew attention to the growing conflict between China and Cambodia. Vietnam, also is involved. You can take it anyway you like; it is a 3 way bet. 
I turn now to our own particular situation and refer to our own Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In passing I pay tribute to David Hamer, a former  chairman,  and the men who served with him for producing what was a commendable report. The present Committee is endeavouring to carry on under somewhat different guidelines. One of the Committee's responsibilities was to look very closely at the matter of civilian participation in defence surveillance. We met with difficulty. If the words civilian participation' are uttered, one can almost feel the defence chiefs bristle. This attitude has to alter. Surely there are lessons to be learned from Israel and other countries where civilian participation is huge and indispensable for the success of operations. It is possible to name a dozen or so countries where in the past 40 or 50 years there has been a successful blending of civilian participation with the formal defence forces. How great is the need to have that situation in Australia. I draw attention to one particular element that could be utilised. We have ample evidence, which will be produced and presented to the Minister in time, that excellent use could be made of the Aboriginal people along the northern frontiers of this country. Many of them have gone back to their tribal areas around the coast under civilian supervision. Under the training of the Army, Navy or Air Force, whatever it may be, we could produce a tremendously effective force of coast watchers- people who would be indispensable in surveillance. They are inquisitive, observant and, what is more, they would have a sense of belonging. Probably a thousand such people could be used. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not suppose that I have ever contributed to a grievance debate in a more determined manner than I am about to do today. If ever there were a grievance to be submitted on behalf of many thousands of people who are responsible for at least some billions of dollars of the income of this nation, it is certainly the two subject matters I am about to discuss. The first grievance involves our airline services. I think it is a great shame that the two major airlines, together with the Department of Civil Aviation- now the Department of Transport- which have contributed to an international reputation for safety and which have superb performance second to none, should begin to forget their major responsibilities, that is, to supply developmental air services to the less privileged areas of Queensland. When I say the less privileged areas of Queensland I make it perfectly clear that each and every area involved is contributing to a billion dollar industry. 
To be more specific, I point out first and foremost that we have never had the advantage of economy class fares, except to the city of Mount Isa. None of the other centres involved have ever had that advantage. We accepted that, not willingly, but we were obliged to accept it. Then the various airlines let their services deteriorate. Although I use Queenland as an example I am not being parochial because any argument I put forward can apply to most other similarly situated parts of this continent. But I must specifically refer to the areas I represent. We have the Gulf service and the Channel service. These routes have both been reduced to almost a non-existent service. They are purely a gesture of service. We also saw the various other services in Queensland deteriorate. The service from Rockhampton to Emerald and on to Barcaldine and Longreach was cut down and it eventually disappeared altogether. It has come back, and has done so with a very efficient service. I must pay tribute to Bush Pilots Airways Ltd, which has taken over the conduct of that service and is making a very valuable contribution to it. 
We then saw the service from Brisbane to Longreach, on to Winton and down to Aramac deteriorate and be cut down in respect of not only the number of services available but its quality. That brings us to the present, in which we face something of a dilemma. There are rumours that the air services between Townsville and Mount Isa, a Fokker route, are to be reduced, perhaps eliminated, and replaced by another service. The Minister is very much concerned about this matter. I know he is. He is determined to see two things happen. The first is the making of a clear statement as to what is to happen. Obviously, that must go before him for approval, but he has told me and the other people concerned that there is on the airline in question an obligation, firstly, to retain the service and continue to operate it unless it falls into a serious non-profit situation. The matter does not end there. If such a non-profit situation arises the company must hand over the route to a company which will provide both a similar frequency and quality of service. It is the quality aspect about which I am most concerned. I believe there is a possibility that the service will be withdrawn and replaced by BPA's Metros. If so, perhaps we will get a fairly comparable service to those areas, but we are determined- I will have the utmost pleasure in spearheading this with the companies and all involved- that we will resist the reduction in the number of services and will most certainly resist the cutting down of the quality of services. 
I invite honourable members to consider the areas involved. In a moment I shall turn to another subject which equally involves these areas. Let us consider Mount Isa and the effect of withdrawing its income from the national earnings of this country. Take the Emerald area and consider withdrawing its income from the national earnings. I am very proud to say that we have here today the  chairman  of the Emerald shire, and one of his councillors, Councillor Gibson. I am not giving this speech for their benefit, but let me say quite decisively that the future will show the value to Australia of the huge coal producing areas of that region, with the Gregory mine coming into full swing very shortly, of the grain growing areas and of the various results of the contribution that has been made by this Government, I am proud to say, to the building of what we still like to call the Nogoa Dam. We see this huge development proceeding. 
Let us go further west to the areas involved in this argument. We have the merino wool areas producing another billion dollars a year. If honourable members wish to go further north into the cattle producing areas, it can be said that they too are producing another billion dollars a year. Those people have seen their air services deteriorate slowly but surely and have always been under threat, wondering whether the air services would be continued or whether if the frequency of services were to remain unaltered what would be the quality of the service that would be rendered. Do we fit 18 people into a small aircraft and say: 'That is okay for you '? We would not inflict that on any passenger on an air service between the capital cities, but are we saying that because people are only going to Mount Isa, Longreach, Emerald, despite the fact they are part of a group of industries, each of which produces a billion dollars annually for this nation, they are not of much consequence? 
That brings me to another subject and I am sure that the Minister at the table the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  wishes that he were not now in the House. It is not his responsibility, but he has heard me tell the story so often. I refer to the provision of television services in remote areas. Only today I had a discussion with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  The news that I received was encouraging. Let me refer again to the plight of the people in these areas which produce such tremendous wealth for this country- these people in the scattered pans of this nation. For a quarter of a century they have waited while one channel after another has gone to the more privileged areas but have not seen a single test pattern. They would not know what television was all about. 
Someone said that they are lucky. Maybe that is right, but at least these people have earned the right to turn the damn thing off. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  and others involved have for years now been approaching successive governments and pleading with them to put in a lousy translator, put in a repeater, for goodness sake to bring television to these people. Regrettably, the decisions are made down in Melbourne. Our Ministers are being fed this garbage that for some reason or other this service is not being provided. At one time it is the contractors. At another time it is being delayed because maybe an advance in technology will bring television more readily to these areas. Of course, such a technical advance has now materialised. 
I refer again to the discussion that I had today with the Minister, who has gone through our areas. Everyone there was terribly impressed- as indeed they were with the Minister for Finance when he came through- with the Minister's genuine appreciation of their problems. However, I feel that once the matter goes back to the Control Board, to those rajahs in Melbourne who make these decisions- they have nothing but contempt, I repeat nothing but contempt, for the people whom I represent- they will think up every possible reason why, after all these years, television has not come to those remote areas. 
Let me mention a few of them. Maybe I am being perfectly parochial, but honourable members may apply my remarks to other areas in Australia that are not being provided with television. I refer to Tambo, Aramac, Isisford, Pentland, Greenvale, Corfield and Capella. In respect of every one of those areas- I issue this challenge- I can show that, per head of population, the people should be given a coloured television set because of the contribution that they are making to this nation. The Minister told me that only last Friday he was examining the technical possibilities, the up-to-date situation in relation to the satellite, which is now becoming a reality. It would appear that where repeater stations have been approved the satellite will provide in the very near future the necessary instant signal. The number of channels, whether it is to be two or three, is at the moment a matter for conjecture, a point of argument. However, I plead with the Government, for heaven's sake to act. No one appreciates the economic situation more than I do. I realise the sense of responsibility of this Government, and every Australian ought to go down on his knees and thank God that it has a government as responsible as this one, which is trying to get this country back on the tracks. I say to the Government: For heaven's sake, at the cost of a few, lousy hundreds of thousands of dollars, give those people the sight of television at last, after 25 years. 
-The Minister for Trade and Resources will recall statements he made earlier this year to the effect that there were signs of a willingness by the European Economic Community to reconsider its attitude to agricultural imports and to the heavy subsidies it pays on agricultural exports. I ask the Minister whether there are any signs in the current multilateral trade negotiations in Geneva that the attitude of the EEC will be translated into something more tangible? 
-This debate has been quite remarkable. At this low of the night I would have imagined that some constructive comments would have been made in relation to this Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill. It appears to  me  that it is a grand old night out to shoot down the Premier of Queensland. There is just one thing wrong with people who have almost an unbelievable hatred of the Premier of Queensland. I think most of those people would like to have the attributes that he has which make him probably one of the most outstanding leaders this nation has ever had. I am not saying that I agree with everything that he does. Our rather immature shadow Minister for Trade and Resources, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is grinning to himself in his normal manner. Can honourable members imagine making a comparison between the honourable member for Blaxland and the Premier of Queensland. It would be so laughable that I would not waste time on it. I would have thought that anyone contributing to this debate would have attempted to give some sort of evidence as to why this $2 1.7m is to be made available to Queensland. 
Before I deal with that, I shall refer briefly to one of the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in particular. He made great play of the fact that Queensland 's expenditure in certain departments was much less than that in other States. Let us look at the question of health. To me, it is perfectly obvious why the expenditure per head of population in Queensland is somewhat less than that in other States. In Queensland we do not have abortions on demand. Queensland people wanting abortions go south. We do not have the same sort of carnage on the roads that they have in other States. If one visits the Royal North Shore Hospital in Sydney one will find ward after ward filled with paraplegics and tetraplegics who cost the State tens of thousands of dollars. That is why expenditure on health in Queensland is less than in other States. Queensland is a fairly healthy State. 
I pay tribute to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who came under a little bit of fire a few minutes ago. It was due to the agitations of the honourable member for Lilley that attention was drawn to the absolute necessity of Queensland getting the extra millions of dollars to balance its Budget. Let us examine the general spectrum of the earnings of this nation. Let us look at the per capita capacity, desire and productive capacity of every Queenslander against those in other States. Is it just our natural resources? Not one damn bit of it. It is the development of those natural resources. It is because of the people who stay out in the inland areas and are there to this very day. Many of these people have never seen a television test pattern in their lives. These are the people who sustain the industries which are producing a great part of the wealth of this nation. Associated with this development is the infrastructure- the building of roads and building homes around mining settlements. 'Oh', honourable members may say, Utah built a town at Blackwater'. But remember the skills and remember all of the various elements that the State government has to contribute. It is beyond its capacity to keep pace with the exciting and accelerating development of Queensland. The difficulty is that honourable members wish they were Queenslanders. God damn it, take for example this man sitting here, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  People from his State are pouring across the border into Queensland to become Queenslanders, to enjoy the rule of Joh BjelkePetersen. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-The answer is there. Honourable members opposite sneer and go on. At this hour of the night, they probably do not know what they are doing. The point is that figures are what tell the story. People have poured across the border into Queensland. We are finding it hard to accommodate them. But we will manage. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to point again to some of the necessities of our having these extra millions of dollars in Queensland. There is the question of airport development. There are more airports in my electorate of Kennedy than in any other electorate in Australia, and most of them are sustained, developed and maintained by the local authority. If the local authority is drawing from one particular fund, it is running short in another fund. So it looks again to the State Government to give it sustenance, assistance and subsidies to create employment and to make up for the necessity of maintaining airports. Then there is the question of roads and bridges and their maintenance. Is all that coming from the Federal Government? A very generous part of it is, certainly. I agree with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  in that regard. But there is a tremendous imbalance which has to be met by such grants as this $2 1.7m for which we, the people of Queensland, are infinitely grateful to the Government. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table at the moment, will tell the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the ministry generally that we appreciate this assistance. 
It is quite silly to go on as did the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and point out the discrepancies in the Queensland situation. There is another matter, the matter of water. Queensland is a very arid State. It is a State which is bursting at the seams with development and in almost every case we face the unfortunate fact that mineral resources are found in isolated places. It just seems to be one of those things that the good God has decreed. We have to find water to sustain those industries. The lifeblood of any industry is a water supply. So, if I might cite a parochial example, in our own area we find the Julius Dam being sustained to a very great extent by the Queensland Government. Again we have the necessity of getting this grant of $2 1.7m. 
The money is being invested; it is being well spent; it is being provided to an exciting and developing State, a State which has a Premier who has made an impact not only in Australia. I remember having lunch on Capitol Hill with a group of United States senators. It suddently occurred to them that I came from Queensland. They said: 'Wait a minute. You are from the State with that pistol packing Premier. By God, man, we could do with him over here. ' That was on Capitol Hill in the United States. Anyone who knows me and who knows my background will know that I totally disagree with the Premier on many matters but he is the greatest Premier in Australia. It is as simple as that. These fellows hate him. If he can make them hate him and constantly hate him, it shows that he is making an impact. One does not kick a dead dog. We see these lightweights, these Johnny-come-latelys who are attempting to make some sort of impact with their few scattered numbers on this side of the House, making themselves look ridiculous by getting up and trying to denigrate a man who has made a great impact on this nation and beyond it. Let me say, finally, that never has the Federal Government made a greater investment than it has with this $2 1.7m. It will lead to greater development in Queensland and it will lead to greater money pouring into the Federal Treasury. 
-by leave-I express the appreciation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  An innovation such as this is encouraging to a committee. Past history indicates that when a committee makes recommendations very little is heard about them. The Minister stated that 30 per cent of the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Road Safety need to be looked at again. I assure him that the Committee will do so. It will also reconsider those which were rejected. I thank the staff of the Committee.  Mr Frank  Hinkley, the Secretary, and his staff have done a splendid job. No Committee has a greater sense of its responsibility than this one. It is dealing with human tragedy involving 10 deaths per day. The Committee's members have shown cohesion and dedication. 
-One would have expected that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  would have presented at least some element of a constructive policy which the Opposition might have or might not have in matters of foreign policy. However, having heard both speeches, one is perhaps gratified that the Opposition does not have such a policy. If it were based on the philosophy which has been produced here today, a philosophy that looked back and reached back into the days of the Vietnam war and so on- of course, they, in their inimitable manner, implied that the United States of America has some sinister and some materialistic objective in its involvement- then I would say that in the interests of solidarity with the United States of America it is a very good thing that the Opposition has not a constructive foreign policy. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  towards foreign affairs, the Third World and so, as warped and shallow. Quite to the contrary. About three years ago, one will remember, the Prime Minister when attending the conference of Commonwealth state leaders in Britain gave a loud and clear message, and that was that Australia in future would have a very realistic approach to the Third World, would have a genuine respect for its aspirations and would make every endeavour to assist it. That was done for a very good reason. Regrettably, over the years and particularly during the non-policy period of the Whitlam Government, our status in the Third World and everywhere else- in particular China- was lowered. Possibly it created diplomatic relations of a kind with Mainland China. But I think it is fairly obvious that the acceleration of the attitude towards Australia and the United States of America over the last few months has indicated that the present regime in China would have infinitely more confidence and infinitely more trust in a future allied to our philosophy and politics than that of members of the Opposition. 
Getting back to the matter of the Third World, may I say it was quite obvious that when the Prime Minister made his forthright and courageous statement in Britain he did want to get his message across; that was Australia would involve itself in the hopes and aspirations of the Third World. If we are to adhere to our philosophy, we must realise that we cannot say that the Third World is synonomous with some sort of left wing communist aspiration. There is a very great segment of the Third World which would have no part in atheistic communism. 
Over the last couple of months I have had the opportunity to discuss matters which affect our future and which affect general global strategy in relation to our foreign affairs. I only wish I had the time to impart the tremendous amount of information that was given to me. I hope that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay),  at the table, will pass on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  my very sincere thanks in relation to the briefing which I received. I would like to make one or two points in relation to our domestic arrangements. I think there has to be a compromise in just how far we can go when we cut down on expenditure in relation to departmental operations of Foreign Affairs in various countries. One of the things that I observed in Europe was that our senior representatives are not permitted the use of an official car. Just imagine someone representing Australia at an important function- I am not talking about a social engagement but perhaps a conference- having to step out on the footpath to hail a taxi. That is an example of penny pinching at its worst. I think that such matters should be looked at. 
The Islamic revival has been discussed to quite some extent already by honourable members on the Government side of the House. The Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party seem to be far more concerned with going back over history. They have suggested that even China is now attacking Labor's golden idol, Vietnam. The forecasts that were made in relation to the occupation of the whole of the peninsula by the Vietnamese forces seem to be coming true. I remember how the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  stood up time and again and absolutely ridiculed the domino theory, but after he had been to the area he was not quite so firm in his attitude. My goodness, if the invasion of Kampuchea is not a further extension of this theory, what is? The state of affairs in that area is disconcerting, to say the least. It is volatile to a point where it should worry everyone who is involved. Returning to the matter of an Islamic revival, I do not suppose it would come as any great shock to anyone who has any knowledge at all of the intensity of the Islamic faith if it were to emerge and become far more conspicuous now than it has been in the past. 
It is pretty obvious to anyone who is closely watching events in those parts of the world that a pattern is now beginning to emerge, showing that events are running according to a plan. If anyone were to suggest that the Soviet Union is not involved in any way in this matter and is just an innocent bystander wanting to assist wherever possible, he would be very naive indeed. The Islamic revolution- if we might refer to the events in Iran in that manner- has occurred. Immediately the regime has come into existence it has been threatened by those who see an opportunity to take over on behalf of the communist countries. It was interesting to note two events that occurred only the day before yesterday. One was a demonstration by not less than 100,000 left wingers against Ayatollah Khomeini. Events move rather quickly. In addition there has been a demonstration in Lebanon. I do not know whether this was shown on television here, but I saw it on television in Singapore. Crowds of people marched through the streets screaming out in a great display of Islamic faith and solidarity. So we see this great wave moving through those areas. It must at least cause very great concern. It is not so much a revival- this intense Islamic faith has always been there- as the use of the faith to ferment a revolution which could well spread right through to our own shores. We should remember that the Islamic faith extends to our borders. 
Turning away altogether from the question of uranium and the question of Vietnam, I refer to a matter of concern which is very evident at the moment. I was in Singapore for four or five days. Every news session stressed how our new air fares policy is affecting our relationship with member countries of the Association of South 
East Asian Nations. I was away when most of this policy changing took place and I do not want to try to make great statements without knowing the full facts but I would like to say that it would be sad indeed if the ASEAN members were to carry out what they are at the moment contemplating, that is- let us be quite frank about itapplying sanctions against Australia in relation to this matter. Surely there must be some compromise. Surely there must be some adjustment, if not of the fares then of the travelling arrangements, which will overcome what the ASEAN nations at least consider to be a quite serious matter. Most honourable members in this chamber know of the many thousands of Australians who visit Singapore. Such sanctions would cause extreme worry. 
I shall dwell for a moment on the matter of our proposed or possible commitment to Namibia. It is not a matter of whether we choose to send people to Namibia; it is not a matter of choice at all. Australia happens to be one of the countries that has been proposed to make a contribution to that peacekeeping force. I very much doubt that we could go along and say to the people involved: 'We are not interested; we do not propose to go along with the rest of the countries. We are fairly isolated from this sort of occurrence. However, should we strike an emergency we will expect you people in the United States and elsewhere to come to our assistance.' This attitude is just not on. Let us be perfectly frank about this situation. The Government has little choice other than to provide at least an element in this peacekeeping force, should it eventuate. Whether it will eventuate is still a little uncertain. I take this opportunity to refer to the splendid contribution that is being made by a handful of Australians in the Middle East. We have 45 people there. I think the least number in any other element of the United Nations peacekeeping force in the Middle East at the moment is somewhere around the 350 mark. The 45 Australians there are doing a splendid job. They are providing helicopter patrols daily out across the Sinai desert, along the Israeli border and right through that area to observe just what is happening and whether things are going as they should. I had the opportunity to go out on one of the sorties. It is wonderful to be able to observe that the most important contribution being made in the whole of that peacekeeping operation is being made by the Australians. 
I have noticed in recent times that when other great conflicts have occurred, or there are elements which, regrettably could develop into a serious conflict, we have been inclined to overlook the possibilities of what could occur in Papua New Guinea. Things seem to have settled down in the trouble spots in that country, but I think we should remember that the foreign policy element in New Guinea is very much dependent on its trade security- which, after all, is a pretty questionable situation- and is dependent almost entirely on one great industry. There is always the possibility that someone will take advantage of a sudden deterioration in New Guinea's trade capacity and that we could find a rather serious situation developing there. The scene generally is not terribly encouraging. 
I think anyone who has listened to this debate must come to the conclusion that the Foreign Minister had a tremendously difficult task in presenting a statement to this House and to the nation today on two questions that are complex. If one were to read the statements made by the foreign ministers of other great nations one would realise that there has been an obvious attempt in each case to try to appreciate a situation which involves the possibility of an unthinkable conflict, that is, the possibility of the Soviet Union and China coming into conflict. The Australian Foreign Minister has made this statement at a time when continuous attempts are being made by the United States to achieve a genuine detente with the Soviet Union. It is interesting to note the reaction of people in high places. I had the privilege- and I will be reporting on this aspect in due time to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- of conferring with people in the Pentagon over a period of five days. The Americans were terribly generous about the way in which they were prepared to impart their knowledge. I am not suggesting for one moment that they gave me classified information, but the general impression there is that America is getting nearer to a genuine understanding- and this is being achieved in a remarkable way- with the Soviet Union at the same time as this very wonderful association is being built up with communist China. 
I think it is a great tribute to the Foreign Minister that he was able to fit into that pattern and to present this statement today. The Labor Party has reacted to that statement in a most ungenerous manner and with a non-co-operative attitude, at a time when we should be closing ranks because of the critical times that could be approaching. I think that anyone who is at the least fair-minded would regard the Minister's statement as being quite superb. 

 -Mr Speaker, does that indicate I am a shopkeeper? I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It is rumoured that the O-Ten television network is to be granted sole rights to telecast traditional cricket. Will the Minister give an assurance to the House and to the many thousands of people in non-metropolitan and particularly rural areas that any such arrangement will be approved only if O-Ten agrees to channel such broadcasts live through the rural Australian Broadcasting Commission network? 
-The Minister for Trade and Resources would be aware that Australian mineral stocks are currently at their highest level for six years and are, according to the Sydney metals and minerals index, some 70 per cent above the level of a year ago. Will the Minister please tell us what are the implications of this for mineral development in Australia? 
-I find that I am in agreement with the comments which have been made by each of the speakers. I commend the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Family Law Act which is reviewing that Act, on the manner in which he has begun the operations of the Committee and given members a lead as to the way in which the hearings will be conducted: I have not had an opportunity as yet of going into the recommendations of the Family Law Council in detail, but I have had the opportunity of observing the whole trend of the approach to this matter by the Family Law Courts. Regrettably I am coming to the conclusion that the title should be: The Destruction of the Family Law Courts. The measure of achievement and the whole keynote of the approach to this matter seems to be how quickly can a marriage be dissolved and just how many dissolutions can be put through in half an hour. I am not exaggerating. I sat in the Family Law Court last week and saw seven marriages dissolved in something like 20 minutes. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  attended a hearing, and it is to his credit that he was so emotionally moved that he walked out of the court room. It was not a matter of his weakness, but it was a matter of his being present at what was a tragic bitterness being expressed by two people. 
I hope that out of this examination of the whole of these procedures and the whole of the attitude to marriage will come some solution whereby the stability and the sanctity of marriage can be restored. We do not have a proud record in this nation, and we are getting the backlash from the ease with which we are presenting divorce to the people of Australia. The backlash is the delinquency, the lack of opportunity, the tragedy of young people who are thrown into that particular position where maybe they will see their father this week, maybe they will never see him again. Maybe they will see their mother this week, and maybe they will never see her again. We saw a child minding centre in those courts. Not one member of that Committee was not moved by watching those children playing with grandmothers or with other people who were accepting the responsibility of parents who could not get along. I am not suggesting for a moment that where there is an irretrievable element in a marriage that it can be solved. If it is irretrievable, one must accept the consequences. But surely to God there can be some preparation for marriage, some seriousness in regard to this step which will introduce a greater permanency into this very sacred union between two people. I repeat that this country does not have a proud record in this matter. I think that the greatest achievement of the Family Law Council would be if it were to come forward and do as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has suggested and that is to at least recommend to the Government that more counselling facilities be made available. 
The Committee has already had some association with a magistrate who comes down from the bench and sits at the table with the two people involved in the divorce proceedings. He requests their counsel to sit in the back of the court while he quietly talks to the people involved in the hope that there may be some element whereby he can restore that marriage. This man is becoming famous, and strange to relate his court is the most popular one in New South Wales. I make no apologies for what I say. I may be called reactionary or old fashioned. I do not give a damn about that. I think this nation rests on the sacredness of the family. This Joint Parliamentary Committee must accept the responsibility of trying to probe deep enough into this matter and of coming forward with recommendations which are not just concerned with property settlement or the custody of a child- a chattel to be handed to a mother or a father. That is totally unacceptable and, my God, this nation will pay the price unless this responsiblity is accepted by the Committee. I am not concerned by the sneering smiles of some members of the Committee or of others who might regard my contribution as being somewhat odd. That is my attitude and it will never change. It is a good Committee. I do not think there is a person on it who does not have a very deep sense of responsibility and who has not had experience in the ways of the world. 1 do hope that somewhere among those recommendations will be a solution to this very serious and disastrous problem which this nation has and that is the ever increasing number of irresponsible divorces. I speak not of the irretrievable ones, but the irresponsible ones. 
-I will try to do the right thing and be brief. There are one or two matters which I feel should be repeated. After all, I suppose we have reached a point where this debate is all repetition. We people who are of the Catholic faith rather resent the fact that we have been described in the Press and by the media as 'the Catholic member for so and so'. I am also the Mt Isa member for so and so. Several other names could be applied to me, I am sure. The most vigorous opponent of abortion in this House I ever had the great privilege of knowing was a former honourable member for Hume, a man named Ian Pettitt, who was a very devout Presbyterian. The reason why he was so devout and so devoted to his antiabortion attitude was that his wife was a matron in a hospital and became sick to death of seeing the foetus in the bucket. 
Another aspect that penetrated the arguments today and yesterday is the aspect of population growth. If we are going to slaughter 60,000 people a year that will not help the situation one little bit. Another matter is adoption. Each of us, I am sure, has many fine young couples in his electorate, and some who are not quite so young, who willingly would provide a home for these young people. But not many babies are now available for adoption. There is a three or four year wait. 
There is also the matter of the feelings of the mother. A lot of sanctimonious statements have been made here today. Can any of us who have been through the experience of seeing the reaction of a mother when her baby is born and is in her arms possibly compare those feelings with the recrimination which any girl, of whatever circumstances, must feel after she has been subjected to an abortion? How could any honourable member compare those feelings- again, in whatever circumstances- with the joy and delight of a mother when she holds her new-born baby in her arms. 
I conclude with a case history. There was a woman who had two diseased valves of the heart- the aorta and the mitral. She was told she would never have a child as she could not possibly survive childbirth. She did survive childbirth. She had two healthy sons and one healthy daughter. She lived 1 1 years longer than she was expected to live. Those were 1 1 years of gifted life. I know all about that case because that woman was my wife. 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the serious concern that has been expressed by the general aviation industry at the recent price increase approved by the Prices Justification Tribunal for Avgas, amounting to 46.7 per cent for bulk Avgas at capital city airports and 58.7 per cent for drummed Avgas at capital city airports? Is the Minister aware that these increases are likely to be even greater at country airports and that the operators of piston engine aircraft, including the majority of commuter and charter operators, will be severely affected and in some cases wiped out? Does the Minister believe that such a massive increase in Avgas prices is justified? If not, can he intervene in the PJT decision, or review the decision, in order to have the price rise reduced? 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. I am sure,  Mr Speaker,  that you will forgive me if I mention that all honourable members must note with pleasure that we have the Saudi Arabian Minister for Commerce in the House. It is very nice for him to be here with us. Because of the  Deputy  Prime Minister's long and very fruitful association with Saudi Arabia and similar countries, I think it would be opportune for him to indicate to us - 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Can the Minister indicate to the House what the implications for Australia might be of the recently released International Energy Agency coal paper? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I address my question to you and seek your guidance. It relates to the conduct of the House over the last week or so. Is it permissible, because of the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition in carrying on with continuous gibberish at the table, for the people behind him to act more or less in the nature of a group of sex crazed baboons, to disrupt the House and, what is far more serious-- 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The 1979-80 Budget is remarkable for one particular thing: At a time when almost every nation in the Western world is grappling with financial problems, when a great country such as the United States of America declared some few years ago that its gross national product was $1 trillion, and when the pendulum is swinging backwards and forwards from month to month, with the inflation rate being perhaps at 1 1 per cent, going down to 9 per cent and then going up to 16 per cent, this Government is able to maintain a sense of direction and produce a most remarkable Budget. 
With wishful thinking, in an almost charadetype of environment, the Opposition, through many of its members, has tried to make play of two particular things. One is the state of the polls. I have no doubt,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you remember, as I do, that prior to the last election the polls gave us a majority of five or seven and it even went up to 12; but we came back with a majority of 55. That story will be repeated when the people of Australia recall the record of the government that reduced this nation to a shambles. The other thing upon which the Opposition has played is family life. I was absolutely amazed at this. I am quite sure that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was not taking himself seriously when he was talking about family life. What group of people ever set about to destroy the things most sacred to family life more than did the people on the Opposition side of the House? That does not apply to all of them, but it does apply to a great majority of them. So much for family life and the polls. There is only one poll that matters, and we will see how that one goes. 
I commend the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and all the other people associated with the Fraser-Anthony Government for producing a balanced, sensible and reasonable Budget with a sense of direction. Obviously, all of the measures that one would have wish to see introduced could not be introduced; yet the Budget was remarkable for one thing: It gave every person in every section of our community something to give them encouragement and to indicate that the people of this nation had been considered. Often these days I am amused by the attempts of the present Leader of the Opposition to present an image which would indicate that there has been a great change of heart, in trying to get across to the people that the members of the Australian Labor Party have now adopted the policies which have proved to be so successful with our coalition. Are the people of Australia going to fall for that? The members of the Labor Party are obviously trying to disown the Whitlam Government. But whether one calls it the Whitlam Government, the Hayden Government, the Hawke Government, or the Bryant Government, or whatever one calls it, it is still the same group of people who will be intimidated by the Nazi-type of intimidation that makes them stand up and toe the line, or else. When outside pressures are brought to bear upon them it is quite amazing how they collapse. The people of Australia will never forget that. 
I mentioned the name of  Mr Hawke,  which I am sure is well known to most people in this House. For some reason best known to themselves, the media have set about trying to establish an image of this man. I find this very hard to understand, because no man who appears on television has a greater contempt for the interviewers and for the media than he has. He seems to take a great delight in treating those people like absolute dirt. They are workers, but that fact does not seem to get across to him. Despite all of that, the media have set about to establish an image of this man which keeps him fairly well up in the polls. Many people in Australia who talk about  Mr Hawke  as being the most suitable man for the position of Prime Minister forget one important thing: The members of the Labor Caucus are the people who choose their leader. When  Mr Hawke  walks into the Labor Caucus room, if he is elected, he has to face up to a combat with Bill Hayden, and he has got Buckley's chance. I know these men. Are they going to bring in a stranger and put him above Bill Hayden or even Bert James, if he stands? There is no way in the world - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I know that sometimes it is necessary to refer to somebody by his name, but I ask the honourable member for Kennedy to observe the ruling of the Chair that the Leader of the Opposition is to be referred to as such. 
I apologise,  Mr Deputy Speaker. Mr Hawke  would have as much chance of leading the Labor Party as would Bill Hayden 's donkey. 
One of the greatest sources of power available to the Government to decentralise and bring to Australia federalism in its purest form is the combined dedication, influence and ability of the 900-odd local authorities spread throughout this country. As chairman of the committee which the local authorities appoint to watch their interests here, I can assure the House that there is a tremendous appreciation of what this Government has done for local authorities throughout the land. The increase in funding has brought the local authorities' share of national income tax revenue from 1.52 to 1.75 per cent. This has meant an additional amount of $42m and a total amount of $222m for local authorities. In addition, the Treasurer has given an unqualified assurance- and this is terribly important- that the Government will be increasing that share to the magic 2 per cent by the time the next Budget is presented. 
Before I leave this all-important matter of the role of local authorities and the work they do for Australia, I appeal to the Prime Minister and the other Ministers concerned to give most serious consideration to the employment scheme which has been proposed recently, after a lot of thought, and presented by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. Time prevents me from giving full details of this scheme, but let me explain briefly that this is a scheme which would require special funding on the basis of 50 per cent from the Federal Government 30 per cent from the State government concerned and 20 per cent from the local authority itself. These funds would be used by individual councils to embark upon schemes to develop their areas and to put to work many thousands of people who presently are unemployed. Some people have claimed that this is just another regional employment development scheme. It is not. The difference between this scheme and the RED scheme is that the proposals would be presented by the local authority. It has been argued that in this economic climate the Federal Government just could not afford to make this sort of funding available. I would debate this on the basis that, immediately this scheme was adopted and these many thousands of people were employed, we would see three things happen: Firstly, they would become taxpayers; secondly, they would no longer be receiving unemployment assistance; and, thirdly, a group of young people chosen by the people who know them best and applied to the developmental proposition that would be most suited to the area would be put into action in their own area. It would be well worth the investment. 
I do have a hardy annual, which is television. As I have done year after year, I bring forward the subject of television for areas which, after nearly 30 years, have not yet seen a test pattern. There is one difference at the moment, and that is that we have the exciting prospect of a satellite going into orbit which will project a television signal direct to the individual receiver. Many of us saw a demonstration of the Canadian proposition; that is, projecting a signal off the Hermes satellite. What one of the saucer-type antennae might cost causes some worry to people. The hundred produced in Canada cost $2,700 each. But, as was explained to me, on substantial authority, if they are mass produced the price could well come down to about $500 each. This would introduce a new era and one of great excitement to the people in the outback areas throughout this nation. What is more, the people who are already receiving television broadcasts would have additional channels. This is where the worry might be. We would want an assurance that the existing regional groups- the regional television stations and radio stations- would still have access to that satellite. I would not like to see- and I am sure no one would like to see- the people of our areas brainwashed by a signal that came from an urban area produced by one of the powerful television groups. That would be one thing that we would not want to see. I am sure that that problem is already in the mind of the Government. 
There are many, many people in isolated areas working like hell in hellish conditions. One of these areas is Greenvale which is a complete mining centre without a television. Various television installations have been approved. A most generous program has been approved by the Government. I appeal to the Government that this work go ahead with all urgency because we are now more than half way through our 3 year term and these stations have not been established. The promise was that they would be installed before the life of the present Government is over. Even though this Government will be returned I would like to see them established with all urgency and operating. I am sure that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Tony  Staley, who is doing a splendid job, will get these people in Melbourne off their seats and get this work moving. 
While on the subject of programming, I appeal to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to give people in remote areas an alternative to the program  Broadband.  Away with  Broadband!  We are sick and tired of this garbage and propaganda that comes over the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio station. The point about this program is that we have no alternative. We either listen to the ABC in these areas or we listen to nothing. I do not know whether the yahoos on the other side of the House ever listen to  Broadband.  If they do, for goodness sake they would have to admit that it is an absolutely unacceptable program. It is the one program that receives absolutely unanimous condemnation. No one likes it, and no one wants any part of it. But year after year this propaganda is shoved down our throats. Let us do away with it. 
I have one final comment about programming. I would appeal again to the ABC to make sure that its sporting programs remain as they always have been. I would particularly make my appeal in relation to cricket test matches, football test matches and any other test matches. The ABC has an impeccable record in the presentation of test matches. I would hope that it reverts to that routine because, hang it all, we have not seen a test match on television for ages. 
It is all right for you fellows who have all the benefits of living in a city. You can look at the Packer programs and enjoy them for the rest of your days. We want the cricket tests back and we want the presentation of tests through the ABC. 
The areas of this nation which pipeline billions of dollars into the Treasury are the cattle, sheep, mining, grain and sugar industries. These industries are critically dependent on the reliability of fuel supplies and, more particularly, distillate. The apprehension in these areas which are so involved is growing day by day. I have made approach after approach to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and he is very concerned. He is, at the moment I believe, preparing a full statement which will clarify the position. I sincerely hope that that will reassure the people who are dependent on these great industries. It is not just the people who conduct these industries who are affected, many thousands of workers are dependent on them also. There is some real fear about the whole situation. 
People of Mary Kathleen, for instance, contacted me recently to say that they carry only one month's supply of distillate. The meat works at Murgon has something less than that. The people there have been told by the suppliers that there is no great certainty of continuing supplies. Quite apart from that type of operation, there are the many people scattered through remote areas, in fettler camps and in outstations who are dependent on their own little outlets for distillate. Once the monsoonal rains set in, there could be real trouble in those areas. We would appreciate first of all an assurance that priority will be given to such operations. 
The pricing of fuel is, in a special way, a severe penalty for people living away from the metropolitan areas. For example, petrol is available in Brisbane for 27c a litre or something less than that. In many of the towns scattered through my area people are paying nearly 35c a litre. Now, this is pretty imbalanced. 
I will get to you in a minute. What happened of course is that in a most cruel and contemptuous manner and with absolute indecent haste this crowd on the other side of the House got into office and stripped off one provision after another- but, more particularly, the equalisation subsidy. They ripped the subsidy off the airlines in the outback areas. My goodness, they could not get into it quickly enough. The two of them, the former Prime Minister and his  Deputy  were a dictatorship.  Mr Barnard  was a  Deputy  Prime Minister in name only because this nation was run by one steel-booted man. The Government did very little at all, if anything, for the people in those areas. I appeal most earnestly to the Government to examine the two-tier pricing system for fuels which is being splendidly presented by  Mr Don  Eather, the chief grain growers representative, in Queensland. He has gone to a lot of trouble and done a great deal of research. I was able to examine the schemes in the United States in January. They are workable and I do hope that the Government can look at them with the object of bringing some sort of equalisation beyond the present scheme to our areas. Our Government, with great rapidity, reintroduced equalisation. All of these difficulties would not exist if we were in a position to develop an alternative resource, and we have so many. 
I remember some years ago Professor Mark Oliphant addressing our then mining committee and telling us about hydrogen and how it could be extracted from solar energy. In my own area there is the most advanced solar energy invention in this nation. It has received international acceptance and international honours. It was produced by the Little brothers. These men could well establish the basis for a most valuable research in this field in an area which has the sun and plenty of it. We could have solar energy farms. They would really achieve a great deal. However, I draw attention to another resource. In recent months attention has been constantly directed to the Rundle shale oil deposits. While Australia's future energy self-sufficiency could well reside in the Julia Creek or, what has become known as the Toolebuc formation. Now I have some interesting figures to present to honourable members. Restraint by the company involved, Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd has kept the spotlight off what could be a truly massive oil resource. Recently CRS decided to accelerate exploration and development of the Julia Creek deposits. Let us examine what a member of an eminent firm of consulting engineers said about this deposit. I quote  Mr G.  Thomas of the engineering firm of Kinnaird Hill de Rohan and Young Pty Ltd. He said: 
The enormous shale deposits of western USA are potentially eclipsed by the Toolebuc formation . . . The formation is several times larger than the American oil shale lands. 

 Mr Thomas is prepared to quote figures which have recieved remarkably little publicity. He goes on to say: 
If the reserves are as large as some believe the Toolebuc formation could contain three times as much recoverable oil as the world's known reserves of flow oil . . . the estimated recoverable shale oil in western USA or about as much oil to last Australia 10,000 years. 
The man saying this is not a fool; he is an eminent consulting engineer. 
CSR has produced an annual report in which the quoted indicated reserves are 700 milion tonnes and third reserves, on the Toolebuc or the Julia Creek deposits, are said to be 2,500 million tonnes. It is interesting to note that these figures were struck before the recently completed driling program. This information is staggering, to say the least. Surely every effort should now be made to remove any obstacle that might prevent these deposits from being investigated with all urgency and brought into production. The news of $4 billion being spent on the development of our aluminium resources is exciting and splendid. But I wish that one of those billions would be devoted to the shale oil deposits and the bringing about of the production of these massive resources. 
I find myself at a considerable disadvantage for two reasons. The first is that I have some very cruel evidence that I propose to put before the House, evidence which I gained over a period of many years as a former member of the Australian Labor Party. But the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  are fairly nice blokes, so perhaps I should go a little bit easy on them. 
I am tossing up as to whether I should. Let us deal first of all with the question of breakfasts. Do honourable members recall the famous breakfast involving the Australian Labor Party? It does not mess around when it comes to making financial deals that could be a little questionable. Financial deals that would put this country into hock with the Arabs for, I think, $40 billion would not be of great consequence to the Labor Party. I come now to the subject of the political organisation about which the honourable member for Gellibrand read out a letter. I was sitting here straining at the leash, trying to detect something shabby or shoddy about  Sir Robert  Sparkes 's letter. I could not see anything in it. 
I represent an electorate which is not an electorate of great privileged people. We have a few great mining companies and perhaps a few great squatter organisations. But I represent an electorate of battlers, ordinary working class people. I represent industrial areas. Two great men issued one very clear edict to me when I entered political life. One of those men was John McEwen. They said to me: 'Above all, keep your nose clean'. Let me say to this House and to this nation that if I were to have clear evidence, even a shred of evidence, that the senior members of my party were associated with a scandal of great magnitude and of this nature, not for one moment would I be speaking to this motion. I would have to look at the whole of my party affiliation. Let me make that quite clear. Furthermore, if I were to detect that some people were to gain affluence or influence unjustly because of a contribution to a political party, again I would have to look at my particular situation and my party loyalties. 
Time and again members of the Labor Party bring forward these sorts of matters with monumental media backing. It is becoming old stuff in Queensland. It is a matter of asking: 'What is the scandal for today? There was one at breakfast time but there is a new one by lunch time.' But they all fizzle out. Labor Party supporters say that they will produce evidence and affidavits. Russel Hinze is coming back. He had what I think is a pretty attractive itinerary. He is coming back to answer charges that the Australian Labor Party is stimulating. 
I refer to the John Curtin House Fund. Not for one moment did the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  suggest that this was not a great fund in itself. If my memory serves me correctly, prominent members of all parties supported the John Curtin Fund. Incidentally, where has the honourable member for Griffith, who represents a Queensland electorate, gone? There is not one Labor man in the House. 
-There is. I pay credit to the honourable member for Grayndler. He has the courage to sit in the House and listen to these facts. But if I were to read some of the facts the members of the Labor Party would not be leaving the House- they would be leaving the country because of my knowledge of what they have done. The ultimate in contempt is to withdraw funds from pensioners and Aboriginals. I will not say any more at the moment on that subject, but these people on the Opposition side were prepared to exploit the underprivileged. 
-Yes. The Australian Labor Party was prepared to exploit the underprivileged to raise party funds. In regard to the John Curtin Fund, I thought that the honourable member for Lilley made an outstanding contribution in this discussion on a matter of public importance because he was not emotional. He merely asked a very simple question. He asked: What is the difference between the two fund raising operations?' Well, what is the difference? The Australian Labor Party organ  The Star,  or whatever it is called, goes to such underprivileged organisations as Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd which contributes to advertising. So where is the difference if someone contributes to the Joh Bjelke-Petersen Fund? I have a huge electorate. I am kept terribly busy. I do not know much about the Fund but I do not think for a moment that anyone associated with the Fund has hidden anything. On every occasion that there is a great tirade of abuse and a great media move against Bjelke-Petersen he has one simple request: 'Well, bring forward your evidence. If there has been a shady deal down on the Gold Coast, okay, let us have it investigated and let us look at the whole thing'. I repeat that if my Party had defaulted, if the leaders of my Party were proven to be a lot of Godfathers and a lot of Mafia type operators I would find it difficult to remain as a member of the Party and I certainly would not be speaking in this discussion. 
The allegations made by Australian Labor Party supporters have no substance whatsoever. They have brought forward this discussion apparently because of something they read in the  Age.  I do not know what stimulated this discussion. May I say that Labor's contribution in this place today was pretty weak, even in trying to sustain the argument that there is some great skulduggery operation. What I do know is that a Bjelke-Petersen Foundation Fund dinner is to be held in my electorate. I know it has been advertised and I know that all sorts of people are going along to it. 
-I do not know that they did, to be honest. I am not sure that they did. The people of South Australia gave a very clear and precise judgment in relation to this matter. Are honourable members going to tell me that the people of South Australia represent the AW As of this country or the great overseas companies? Were there enough of such people in South Australia to give a devastating defeat to the Labor Party? The former Labor Party Premier in that State,  Mr Corcoran,  is a fine man. I have never heard a word said against him. He is a good family man. But the judgment of the workers of South Australia was that their whole future was in jeopardy because of the scurrilous mud-slinging activities- this very type of operation that we are discussing today- which had not been sustained. Honourable members will recall the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this House giving figures on the number of occasions that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  claimed that we on this side of the House were all sorts of weird operators and that almost everyone was a criminal or semi-criminal. Those allegations were never sustained. They always petered out and fizzled out. But the Labor Party has kept at it. What was the judgment of the people of South Australia? They got to thinking for the first time and they said: 'Okay, unless we have the sort of thing that this Joh BjelkePetersen fund claims it will provide, that is, getting the financial vitality that is necessary to sustain the sort of philosophy that has made Queensland the mecca of Australia, there has to be a change'. 
If all this alleged skulduggery and crooked dealings are going on why are decent people flooding into Queensland? Do they want to be associated with the Mafia and Godfather-type activities, with Joh Bjelke-Petersen as the Godfather? Surely honourable members opposite do not believe these people are rushing to Queensland to be associated with that sort of operation. The people in South Australia have made their judgment. The same thing will happen at the next Federal election. The members of the Labor Party are using all sorts of desperate measures. They are bringing in Bob Hawke. The moment Bob Hawke becomes a member of this House he will be just another member. Look at what has happened to the big shots who have become members of this House. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  was a great national figure but the moment he became a member of this House he was just another member of the Australian Labor Party. He is not even a member of the front bench. The same will happen to the great Bob Hawke. The media that he insults and treats with contempt crawl to him and cringe because they think they have a great winner- someone who can knock over big Mal. They are fools; they are idiots. I am sad to see my good friend the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Gellibrand associated with this ridiculous and unsubstantiated discussion of a matter of public importance. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, concerns the television coverage of today's major sporting event, the Melbourne Cup. Is the Minister aware that because large numbers of residents of western Queensland and other outback areas of Australia receive only an Australian Broadcasting Commission television service, they were denied the pleasure of watching live the running of this great Australian event? Can the Minister confirm that this is the result of the sale of exclusive television rights by the organisers, the Victoria Racing Club, to a commercial television operator who can provide only a limited coverage? Is the Minister able to offer any hope to residents of remote areas of Australia that all organisations involved in these arrangements will accept that they have a responsibility to enable all Australians to receive coverage of these major events- cricket, football, tennis and other events- and thus put to an end this continued attack on services provided to rural and outback Australia? Will the Minister take all possible action available to him to have this contempt for so many disadvantaged people brought to an urgent end? 
-This legislation may be regarded as purely a machinery measure but I think it goes a little further than that. My brief speech will be taken up with an expression of appreciation for the concern which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has shown. The presentation of these Bills to the House exposes the concern which he has for trying to remove not so much the disciplinary environment of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force but the many tedious and antiquated machinery matters. After all, when we are dealing with the Defence Act of 1 903, the Naval Defence Act of 1 9 10 and the Air Force Act of 1 923 we are probing pretty deeply into history. I think the most important of the measures which are now before the House is, as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has pointed out, that measure which removes the tedious necessity for the approving of financial benefits generally by regulation, which involves the promulgation, withdrawing and revising of regulations and so on. The Minister and the Department of Defence have seen fit to remove these very tedious procedures. There is little doubt that the defence force will greatly welcome these measures. The purpose of my contribution is merely to pay tribute to the Minister and the Department not only in respect of this legislation but also in regard to the way in which they have been examining the whole system of benefits for the participants in the defence force. 
We hear a lot of talk about resignations and so on. It is interesting to note that the rate of resignation in the defence force is very much less than the rate of resignation in the Commonwealth Public Service. Recently I put to the Minister at an Estimates committee a question on how we were attracting people to train for the new generation warfare and he was able to tell me- I am sure that everybody who is interested and involved in defence matters would be delighted to know this- that the interest in participation in that terribly important section of our defence requirements is very high. These people are being trained in the new generation warfare and the  weaponry  that goes with it. I am sure that every honourable member fully supports this legislation. As I have said, the legislation is only a machinery measure but I did feel that something should be said in regard to the progress being made in doing away with tedious procedures. 
-It seems at present that the world is faced with a great spectrum of human tragedy. Most of our news media- television and radio- coverage is devoted to some of the almost genocidal disasters that are occurring in various countries. However, there is something a little different about the situation in East Timor or, as the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  pointed out a little while ago we should more correctly say in Indonesia. Whether we like it or not we must face up to the reality that East Timor is a part of Indonesia. There is something a little different about the situation in that country for two reasons. The first is that its people are very close to us. If we set aside Papua New Guinea they are, perhaps our nearest neighbours. 
Over and above that is a second consideration. We should not sweep it under the carpet. If we do so we are doing a great and critical disservice to this nation. Let me make it clear that we do not shed one vestige of our attitude towards human rights. If there is any doubt in this House as to the attitude of the Parliament generally towards human rights, honourable members would do well to examine the report that was recently tabled by  Senator John  Wheeldon 's Committee. I pay tribute to  Senator Wheeldon  for his great sincerity and the sincerity of the other members of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in producing a document which so exposed the question of human rights. I make it perfectly clear as a prelude to the comments I am about to make that we do not sacrifice one iota of our attitude towards the extreme sanctity of human rights for every single human being on this globe. 
Let us keep in mind one critical feature of the situation in East Timor. Unless we are absolutely sure of our facts we should not make extreme claims in relation to the people of Indonesia. Let us not talk about 330,000 people being killed when we know damn well that that figure is ridiculous. Even if only 3,300 people have been killed that has not been as a result of the civil war. Wars will come and go. Honourable members should take a look at the tragedies in Lebanon, Vietnam and Kampuchea. We realise that we cannot do very much about the insanity that causes people to kill each other. If they are people of the same race how much more vicious is the war involved. 
We should look beyond the war in East Timor and consider the aftermath. The aftermath has been examined with a prejudiced eye. It has been prejudiced in two directions. Some people say that the Indonesians are inviolate. They say that all who were killed were killed in the civil war and that people who have died since have died of some disease resulting from the civil war. This claim is as much rot as the other claim to which I have referred, namely that 330,000 people have been killed. I agree with one thing which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said; perhaps I agree with a lot that he said. He is a man who has given much of his life to this country but I suggest that at times he gets a little carried away and is inclined to do as, regrettably, some members of the Labor Party are inclined to do; that is, to expose the miseries of people and to exploit them to their own advantage. We well know that they stand condemned in this regard in relation to Aboriginals and pensioners, but I do not wish to get on to that subject. 
I return to the matter of the East Timorese. For how long will the recriminations continue? For how long will there be a wrangle about who is responsible for what? For how long will the body count continue? I think that everybody would concede that Peter Rodgers did a splendid job. He came back with a realistic report of what is happening now. Let us look at what is happening now. In some respects this has some relation to the body count- the hundreds of thousands of people who are supposed to have perished in the course of the war. A civil war took place. We should look to the security of this country and not sweep the matter under the carpet. Two elements are involved. We should have an additional, more active and more living sympathy for these people because they are on our doorstep. But the very fact that they are on our doorstep brings in another critical consideration. We should not abandon our principles. We are not acting so as not to offend some Indonesian official as was stated in this place. It is not a matter of offending some Indonesian official; it is a matter of keeping our relationship with a country of tens of millions of people, which is now recognised as being very significant among those countries which are militarily capable in the world, never mind in South East Asia. It is of some importance for us to have an understanding of these people and a mutual respect, notwithstanding what has happened in East Timor. 
Is East Timor to dominate the whole of our considerations? Is it to cause us to abandon our future, our security, our defence and our relations with the one country that could stand between us and what is an ever-growing threat in the north? How often did we hear honourable members opposite a few years ago say: 'Huh, the domino theory.' 
As the honourable member for the Northern Territory says, we heard it continually. We got sick and tired of hearing it. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  came back from a visit to the area and confirmed that the domino theory was a threat. My goodness, how he proved to be right! There is the ever important consideration of the security of Australia and every person in this nation. Are we to accept these extreme condemnations of the Indonesian people? Let us examine the situation and bring some balance into it. Let us not for one moment abandon our genuine concern for these people. 
It is interesting to note that it was not easy for the Indonesians when they took over Timor. Again I say that we must accept what has happened, as we have accepted the Soviet takeover and domination of countries such as Poland and the blocs that have come into existence. Timor is not a bloc; it is a composite country. There had been three centuries of colonial neglect in that area. As the honourable member for Bradfield pointed out, when the Indonesians took over there was no sealed road out of Dili. Roads are being constructed and sealed at the moment. More importantly, the honourable member for Bradfield pointed out that a constructive policy regarding health and education is now beginning. Honourable members should remember that prior to the takeover there was nothing but shambles in the area. The Indonesians had to face up not only to the three centuries of colonial neglect but also to what would happen after the civil war. Let us bring a little balance into the situation without condoning for one moment any persecution of these people. 
We must stand firmly. I agree entirely with the honourable member for Reid when he says that there has to be a bipartisan approach. We have to close our ranks on this matter. We have to consider the reasonable claims, not the extreme ones from either side. Rather than talk we should act as the Government has acted. An additional $1,900,000, nearly $2m, was allocated to East Timor before the Rodgers report came out. The honourable member for Reid said that another $2m, was allocated to ease our conscience. What rot! That $2m was allocated because the joint Red Cross organisations had issued a report indicating a tremendous need. That need was not pointed out in the Rodgers report, even though I pay credit to it, but by the joint Red Cross organisations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the Committee's report on Australian defence procurement, together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-First of all, I thank my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  for the privilege of tabling this report. In presenting this report, I inform the House that a separate report is in preparation on that pan of the terms of reference related to assistance to the civil power. I point out to the House that it seems that, when matters of defence come forward, by a conspiracy of circumstance, time is cut short to a point where there is practically no debate at all. I think it most regrettable that an important report of this nature, particularly at a time like this when international events are anything but encouraging, should be introduced at this very late stage. 
The precise terms of reference for the present report were: 'The implementation and effectiveness of Australia's announced defence programs, with particular reference to procurement policy'. This reference was received on 12 July 1978 and Sub-committee C of the Joint Committee commenced hearings on 20 June. The last formal evidence was presented in October 1979. In the intervening 18 months, we took over 2,300 pages of written and oral evidence from a very wide range of sources. The report is not a lengthy document, but I put it to the House that it may be one of the more significant papers to emerge from the parliamentary committee system in recent years. It represents a year and a half of concentrated work and detailed examination of evidence in a very complex field. It was exhaustively considered before being agreed to. 
This report takes 'procurement' in its widest sense. It examines the procurement process from the initial strategic analysis right through to the acquisition of equipment for the defence forces. We have expressed our full agreement with the strategic assessment as set out in the 1976 defence White Paper and as subsequently updated and restated by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  It is most unlikely that Australia could become the target of major direct attack inside the next five years. At the same time, we allude to the Sino- Vietnamese conflict and developments in Iran and, I might add, developments in Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia and here, there and everywhere, not in any alarmist way but to point out the continuing potential for sudden and unforeseeable changes. 
I wish to acquaint the House with our major recommendations. Honourable members will appreciate that in a statement of this type brevity is essential, and I commend a study of the report to those who wish a full outline of the Committee's views on the subjects I now mention. We have certain reservations concerning what is known as the 'core force' concept. These centre on our concern for the capacity of the Defence Force to expand rapidly enough to meet some contingencies. Our concern is sufficient to prompt us to recommend that a high-level inquiry into the expansion capability of the Defence Force be undertaken. There is a need for an interdepartmental or national approach to such an inquiry which should determine the industrial and manpower support which could be available to the force-in-being. 
This Committee reported two years ago on Australian defence industry, and we have followed the matter up in the present report. We maintain our view that our defence industry base is not as good as it might be, and that we should develop it to make Australia as free as possible from dependence on foreign suppliers. We suggest that this can be achieved through the provision of stable workloads, acceptance of apparent cost disadvantages where these are not excessive, improved communication between industry and the Department of Defence and, importantly, by Government and the Department sticking to decisions previously announced. 
The Committee, whilst concurring with the view that our strategic outlook is favourable, wishes to make the point that we should use this time to advantage. We consider that it would be unwise to wait for some threat to emerge before acting to enhance preparedness and further increase our self-reliance. We do not suggest in detail how this might be done, or how much money should be allocated. We recommend that Government act to determine several matters: The most effective security strategy; capabilities needed to execute that strategy; deficiencies in our present capabilities; and what is required to make good any such deficiencies. We recommend that these capabilities be introduced over a 10-year period, and wish to make the points that this will require a bipartisan approach to defence. Some form of supplemental equipment acquisition budgeting may also be required. Such funding would provide for supplemental 10-year budgeting packages to cover the development, production and entry into service of specific equipment systems. This funding would be separate from the annual defence budget. We think this an extremely important consideration. I repeat it: This funding would be separate from the annual defence budget. 
The Committee received convincing evidence that there is a problem in procedures which apply to the purchase of defence equipment in Australia. We are persuaded that these procedures act as a deterrent to Australian industry and to the Department of Defence. We have recommended improvements, and suggested principles on which these might be based. We have made an exhaustive study of the Defence Department's decision-making system. A major point arising from this study is the length of time it can take to acquire a piece of major equipment for the forces. According to standard Defence Department procedures it can take up to eight years from the issuance of a major equipment proposal, and rarely takes less than three or four. These lead times exceed likely periods of warning for some defence contingencies we may have to face. This has been accentuated over the last two or three days. The Committee has therefore recommended that, if it is not possible to reduce the contribution of decision-making to lead times, key major equipments should be acquired earlier. Our examination of the organisation of defence procurement revealed that for several reasons aspects of this function have been dispersed between various departments or agencies. The Committee considers that this dispersal can lead to inefficiencies or lack of flexibility. For this reason, we have recommended that functions related to the procurement of major military equipment now with the Department of Administrative Services be transferred to the Department of Defence. 
The development of the Defence Force should be based on a deterrent posture to show that the cost of interference with Australia or her vital interests would be prohibitive and should seek to demonstrate that Australia is concerned to contribute to the security of the region. The approach used by the Defence Department to define the Defence Force requirements- the core force concept- has much to commend it in a period of financial stringency. The Committee considers, however, that there has been an overemphasis on this approach. The Committee agrees with the introduction to the 1976 White Paper on Defence which stated: 
The first responsibility of government is to provide the nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints on independent national decisions imposed by the threat of such attack. 
However, long lead items, high attrition rates and potential political direction of military action may dictate that future conflicts will be of relatively short duration but of very high intensity, with limited prospect of immediate resupply. Therefore, the force in being, in contrast to the core force, must be sufficient to survive the initial shock of such conflict and still establish a base of capabilities for subsequent action. If this objective is to be attained, it will require the allocation of additional financial resources to defence, particularly for the timely acquisition of new equipments. In examining the procedures, practices and constraints relevant to the selection and subsequent acquisition of specific brand names of equipment, the Committee formed the view that: 
The system for procurement from Australian sources is excessively cumbersome and complex and that it poses serious problems for both the Defence Department and local industry; 
The Government should direct relevant Departments and agencies to produce an improved system for local defence procurement, and that this should be a matter of high priority; 
The expenditure overseas of large sums on defence equipment should in principle be supervised by Australians; and 
The Department of Defence should investigate ways of reducing the contribution of departmental decision-making processes to equipment acquisition lead times, which often exceed the five year warning period spoken of before, without degrading the quality of decisions. If this is not possible, it will be necessary to acquire additional equipments well in advance- I have already stated this- of any warning period. 
The evidence shows that the organisation of procurement: 
Divides responsibility between too many departments and agencies, with a consequent lack of consistency and loss of fast reaction time; fails to take account of the fact, recognised in overseas reports and organisations, that procurement is a specialist activity in its own right; and so far as local procurement is concerned, is based on requirements and practices which tend to erode our defence industrial base. 
Australia is separated from its overseas suppliers of defence equipment by long lines of communication. These lines of communication are vulnerable and potentially capable of interdiction although Australia's dependence on the use of foreign shipping for the carriage of its overseas trade restricts this possibility to the context of a general threat to Western shipping. In a deteriorating world situation overseas suppliers would be likely to accord higher priority to their own needs than Australia's. That is pretty obvious. In a conflict with a regional country, overseas suppliers may be unwilling to provide Australia with its defence requirements. For these cogent strategic reasons the Committee recommends that Australia should become increasingly self-reliant for its production of defence equipment. 
It is necessary that there should be informed discussion in the electorate and the Parliament with a bipartisan approach developed in respect of defence policies and strategies, the essential requirements of the Defence Force, and the extent to which these resources should be allocated to provide these requirements. The Parliament, through its committee structure, should monitor all defence programs, and the Department of Defence should be encouraged to make a positive and continuing contribution to the informed nature of the debate by its active participation in and promotion of public seminars and by its briefing of the Parliament on defence issues. In this regard the Committee notes several innovations in recent months where this has been done. They are all to the good. 
In determining priorities for development of the Defence Force consideration should be given to the following elements: 
Those capabilities that are required to provide a military response to the lesser contingencies which could arise with little or no warning; those high performance capabilities relating to a general strategic requirement as dictated by the characteristics of the environment rather than by specific contingencies and required to provide deterrence against the use of military pressures or military means by a potential enemy to achieve its objectives and which could not be acquired within the period of warning likely to be available before a major threat to Australia could develop; and a representative selection of second tier or substitute capabilities- moderate cost, moderate performance, short lead time systems, that could be acquired in relatively large numbers during a period of developing threat- to enable the development of operating techniques, procedures and doctrines in a short period of crisis. 
I pay tribute to members of the Committee. Each member of the Sub-Committee was completely objective in his approach to our responsibilities and I commend each member for his continued interest and the serious manner in which we examined and evaluated the evidence and finally formulated the recommendations. 
I wish to thank Malcolm Hills for his intense dedication to his work and to express the regrets of the Sub-Committee that continued illness has deprived the Committee of his services. 
Robert King has done a splendid job under extreme difficulties. When  Mr Hills  was not available  Mr King  was there to take over and the Sub-Committee is grateful to him. 
Our two consultants, Commodore Ken Gray and Gary Brown justified the reputation they both have for their knowledge and understanding of the defence scene. The vast and valuable experience of Ken Gray and the observations and monitoring of defence activities here and abroad by Gary combined to provide most valuable assistance to the Sub-Committee. 
Finally the Sub-Committee is immensely grateful to all who were prepared to appear before it and assist with their submissions. 
The Minister for Defence, the Honourable Jim Killen, and the Minister assisting him, the Honourable John McLeay, never hesitated to make every possible facility available to the SubCommittee to assist our inquiries as a result of Minister Killen 's co-operation Defence Department witnesses of the highest possible calibre appeared as witnesses before the Sub-Committee. 
Having said this, I must point out that, as this House is well aware, the inquiry which has produced this report has on occasions been controversial. On one or two occasions the controversy has reached this House. 
I have to inform the House that the Subcommittee expresses concern about remarks made in the House on 26 October 1978 by the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence and on 8 March 1979 by the Minister for Defence. 
We consider that the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence over-reacted to criticism which had been levelled at the Department of Defence by witnesses who appeared before the subcommittee at public hearings and which in some cases had received Press publicity. The subcommittee considers that, to a lesser degree, the Minister for Defence also over-reacted to such criticisms. 
At the time of the criticisms levelled at the subcommittee, evidence favourable to and critical of the Department had been presented and further evidence was still to come. All this evidence had yet to be evaluated by the sub-committee and, accordingly, any criticisms of the sub-committee for its handling of the evidence were premature and ill founded. The sub-committee emphasises that the inquiry was carried out in accordance with the established procedures of the committee system of the Parliament and its Standing Orders. We therefore reject the criticisms that were levelled at the sub-committee, though we appreciate that the Ministers were understandably sensitive to some of the Press coverage of evidence given at public sessions of the sub-committee. 
We are pleased to note that, as further evidence was received and evaluated, far better understanding obtained between the Minister for Defence and the Department of Defence on the one hand and the sub-committee on the other. As a matter of fact, it built up to a crescendo. People from the Defence Department of the very highest calibre, appeared before the Committee by authorisation of the Minister, including  Sir Arthur  Tange and  Sir Anthony  Synnot. 
I have also to inform the House that certain allegations have been made regarding the alleged intimidation of some witnesses before the subcommittee. These allegations are under examination. The Minister for Defence responded in detail in this House in November 1978 to the previous report of the Committee on defence industry. This mark of attention by the Government was most welcome. 
I commend this report to the House, and consider it essential that the report be debated after honourable members have had time to consider it. In that regard, I appeal to the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner)  to put on the program of business very early in the next sitting a debate on this report. I look forward to comment by the Minister for Defence in debate in this House after he has had opportunity to consider the matters raised in the report. 
