 Mr Deputy Speaker,  first, may I ask you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his appointment to the high office which he' now holds and also ask you to accept my congratulations on your appointment as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. Perhaps the greatest honour which can come to anyone in a parliamentary democracy is to act as a representative of his or her fellow citizens. I am very conscious of the honour of representing the people of Diamond Valley in this House, and I thank the electors for their support. I would also like to take this opportunity of thanking my predecessor, Neil Brown, for the work he did on behalf of the people of Diamond Valley. Although we belong to different parties and have different points of view on many important matters of policy, we have, through 2 election campaigns remained friends. I wish him well. 
The Governor-General's Speech is a blueprint for social and economic change in Australia. I would like to comment on some of the issues raised in the speech, and add some of my own thoughts on what I believe to be desirable extensions in the years to come. We live in an age of challenge and an age of change. I believe that it is up to all honourable members, both Government and Opposition, to make sure that this Parliament works. I hope that this twenty-eighth Parliament goes down in history as the great reforming parliament. If the aims as set out in the GovernorGeneral's Speech are put into effect, then this hope will be realised. The Speech lists very important matters such as social security which will affect the basic welfare of Australians. We live in a country where no-one should suffer poverty, where no-one should be lonely in old age and where no-one who is sick does not receive proper care. We live in a community which is rich enough to provide for the needs of its citizens. What happens depends to a large extent on us. This Parliament bears the responsibility. 
This Parliament should be an effective instrument for political action which is the expression of the will of ordinary people in society. That is why the electoral measures which will come before us for detailed discussion shortly are so important - these measures will embody the principle that a majority of the people of Australia through their vote can make and break governments. The will of the majority of electors should be supreme and no electoral gerrymander should ever take away this right. The Governor-General's Speech outlines the desire of the Government to build a more co-operative society. 1 am well aware that many Australians do not hold the parliamentary system in very high regard. This is regrettable. However, we as members of this House will need to take positive action if this attitude is to be reversed, and here I agree with the remarks that were made this afternoon by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I hope that we will establish committees to examine many aspects of Australian society. These committees and individual members will need to be provided with the necessary secretarial and research facilities if this Parliament is to make sure that legislation and proposed legislation is properly considered and if members are to be able to carry out their tasks with efficiency while retaining a very necessary contact with their own electorates and the community. The bringing of the people into real contact with their Parliament is the responsibility of all members of this House, both Government and Opposition. By working together on matters where there is general agreement I believe we can add a new dimension to political life in Australia. 
I hope that this Parliament will make significant progress towards giving women an equal place in our society. For a country which once led the world in granting rights to women about the time this Parliament was established we have often since lagged behind the rest of the world. What many people fail to realise is that true equality for women is of great benefit to society - to both men and women. As a teacher I saw how much the granting of equal pay and status has meant to the profession as a whole. When this Parliament considers legislation which affects women, women should be consulted, and they should help make the decisions. This House can make a significant contribution to rights for women by, among other things, passing legislation to provide much better adult education facilities, to establish equal pay for work of equal value, to provide for family planning clinics, to build child care centres and to reform those laws which discriminate against women both socially and financially. 
Twelve years ago a select committee in another place brought down a report outlining its findings on certain aspects of road safety. Perhaps it is interesting to note that the honourable member for Robertson, a previous  speaker  in this debate, has a great and well known interest in road safety. Not nearly enough has been done by governments up to this time to see that action arising out of the select committee's findings was implemented. Road accidents cost Australia in excess of $ 1,000m annually and cause pain and grief which can never be measured in monetary terms. I am convinced that by taking resolute and well planned action this Parliament can change the present situation. If this country were involved in hostilities with another country which caused the tens of thousands of deaths and injuries which road accidents cause in Australia every year, then no effort would be spared, no cost would be too great to see that such death and injury were brought to an end. That is the sort of effort we must make. If it means a complete rethink about the type of individual and public transport systems that we will need in the future, then that is what we must do. New concepts which will provide fast, safe, and efficient transport and at the same time preserve our resources and our environment must be thought out and adopted. 
Our environment can also be preserved by providing well planned incentives to individuals and corporations to encourage them to recycle waste and prevent the destruction of irreplaceable resources. We live on what has been aptly described as spaceship earth. Careless and unplanned use of this world's resources if continued indefinitely will cause the destruction of future generations almost as surely as atomic warfare. We owe a debt to the past. We also have a responsibility to those who come after us. As trustees of the earth we must see that through world wide co-operation the earth's resources and the environment are preserved. My electors will be watching with hope and interest to see the implementation of policies which will assist in the preservation of the environment. 
I am very pleased to see the emphasis which is given to education in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. As a young area Diamond 
Valley is vitally concerned. I am quite sure that we shall see from this Government a new deal for children at all stages of their education and especially fop those children in our community who suffer mental, social, or physical handicaps. As with social welfare matters the mark of a good, just, and great society is the way in which that society treats those of its members who are less fortunate than the average. I believe that we need to start thinking of education not only as a service for the young but as a service to the whole community, to be used as and when necessary - like health services. This will need a completely new emphasis on the role of adult education and retraining programmes. The proposed use of schools as community centres is long overdue. In the electorate of Diamond Valley where we have a great many young people the provision of cultural, youth, and recreational facilities, based at least in part on our schools, will be very much appreciated. 
I believe that the Government is to be congratulated on the progress which has already been made to see that all Australian citizens have available to them a wide range of social security benefits when and if they need them. I am particularly pleased about the decision which has been taken to abolish the means test on age pensions during the next 3 years. Not only will the abolition of the means test mean that our elderly citizens will enjoy a better standard of living but it will also mean that many people who are in receipt of retirement benefits will be able to continue to make a significant contribution to the Australian economy - at least on a part time basis. 
The action promised to encourage economic growth will be welcomed by the whole community. A nation is as rich as the goods and services it produces. Incentives to industry and others to produce more goods and services of real value will quickly raise the standard of living of the Australian people and will enable a more rapid implementation of the programmes outlined, lt is also pleasing to see that mention is made of the need to fight inflation. Since I was elected I have received many letters from constituents who are concerned about the continuing and rapid rise in prices. This rise in prices is causing hardship to those members of the community who are not in a position to fix their own wage or price structure. Rising prices affect pensioners and others on fixed incomes, most families, and a very large section of primary and manufacturing industry. I believe that as a first step a prices justification tribunal is very welcome, but ultimately powers will need to be sought from the States or from the people to regulate prices. This does not mean that our economy needs to be in the grip of an iron bureaucracy, but rather that those people who at present manipulate the economy for their own selfish benefit will have to be satisfied with a reasonable profit for initiative, skill, and the use of their resources. There is no doubt in my mind that a referendum proposal on price regulation if put to the people would receive overwhelming support. 
At long last local government is to get a new deal. For far too long local government has been denied the resources which are necessary to carry out the tasks which a developing society requires it to perform. The proposed legislation to allow local government access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the moves to give local government a voice on the Australian Loan Council are to be highly commended. Eventually I hope to see a fully integrated system of government in Australia where each level of government - Commonwealth, State and municipal - has its properly planned role to perforin. I am a firm believer in national planning but I am also a firm believer in local implementation of those plans whenever possible. The people who are most affected should have a direct voice in the implementation of those policies which concern them. For instance  1  would like to see more local participation in the field of social security. I believe that this would not only be cheaper but would also be much closer to those concerned. Financially, too, an integration of government and a planned use of resources would pay handsome dividends. 
I believe that the rating system based on property values is no longer appropriate in a modern society. Not only do municipal rates fall most heavily on particular groups in our community, namely those on fixed incomes and farmers, but also little regard is given to the the ability to pay. In addition the actual collection of the rate is expensive. In the electorate of Diamond Valley which, outside the Australian Capital Territory, is the largest electorate in Australia in terms of electors enrolled, the collection of municipal rates would cost something approaching $250,000 annually and over the whole of Australia in excess of S20m. This expenditure produces nothing of real worth to the community. We can use our resources much better. 
Another aspect of the Governor-General's Speech which interested me was the emphasis placed on international co-operation. Such measures as those outlined provide useful steps towards the ideal of world government. In the course of human history we have progressed from the family unit to the tribe, to the village, to the city state, to the nation state and now to the amalgamation of nations into various defence and economic arrangements. Each one of these steps was necessary for the preservation of human society. I believe that we have now reached the stage where world government is necessary for the future preservation of human society. Australia can and should give its support to the concept of world government. I do not underestimate the difficulties - they are enormous - but we cannot afford to wait until there arises a meglomaniac who is prepared to destroy the world if his will cannot be supreme. A loss of sovereignty can in my mind be justified in the interests of the safety of the whole human race. 
A useful step in the process of world integration would be the teaching of the international auxiliary language Esperanto to all children all over the world, lt is easy to learn and expressive and would enable people in this day of extensive world travel to meet and converse with ordinary people no matter where they might go. Esperanto means the language of hope. If all people could communicate no matter where they travelled then one of the serious barriers to world integration and government would be broken and the hope of world wide co-operation would be much closer to being achieved. 
As far as Australia is concerned I support the idea of the establishment of a chair of peace studies at an Australian university. Surely the subject is important enough to receive the attention and support of this Parliament. Human nature does not change but human attitudes do. It is the combined attitudes of the people who make up our society that are important - not individual saints or sinners. Whenever people say that matters like world government, the disappearance of racism, the abolition of poverty and the effective use and conservation of the earth's resources are unattainable ideals, I think of an illustration I once saw on the cover of the Victorian Teachers Journal'. It showed  a  small boy in the latter part of the last century being reprimanded by his schoolmaster for making paper darts in school. As a punishment, the boy was writing over and over again on the blackboard: 'Man will never fly. Man will never fly.' Mankind can, if it so desires, accomplish all manner of wonderful things. The real question is whether we are prepared to organise things properly to see that ideals are translated into action. That is the role of this Parliament. I hope and believe that this Parliament can make its own significant contribution to the action which is necessary. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Scholes)Before calling the honourable member for McMillan 1 point out to the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 1 call the honourable member for McMillan. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Housing. Has  Mr Quinn,  Victorian  President  of the Federation of Co-operative Housing Societies, claimed that Victoria will build 1,500 fewer houses under the proposed Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement because finance to co-operative building societies will be cut from 30 per cent to 20 per cent of Commonwealth .advances? Can the Minister say whether this claim is true? If it is will he take urgent steps to ensure that such a drastic reduction in low income home building does not occur under (he new agreement? 
Together with those who have already spoken in this debate, I commend the Government for taking the action which it has taken to increase the contingent liability of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I had not intended to enter this debate but I feel that certain points which have been raised need some clarification and perhaps some answers. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  indicated in his remarks in support of the Bill that this Government and Australians generally face some quite serious dangers because of the decision to revalue the Australian currency. I point out that most economists in Australia supported the revaluation procedure which was carried out 
For years it has been acknowledged that the Australian currency was under valued and that people were pouring money into Australia and exploiting its resources for their own benefit. No doubt some of the capita] that came in - in fact, a good deal of it - benefited Australia. But there was other risk capital which came here specifically because people saw the opportunity to make money rather quickly. I quote the right honourable John McEwen's words to a Country Party conference when he said: 'We are selling a bit of the farm each year'. 
I think that the decision to revalue Australia's currency has desirable consequences in many ways. There is no doubt in my mind after weighing up the whole situation that the Government had no alternative but to revalue when it did. I think the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  pointed out that despite the changes in the world monetary balance Australia is, in fact, in a better position to compete in some countries than it was before revaluation. We need to be flexible in our approach to exports. I think it is particularly important that we should look at the economy as a whole and examine the effect which our policies will have on all exporters and producers in this country. 
It goes without saying that there is a need for world monetary reform. The old gold standard no longer holds the sway that it did. First one currency and then other currencies, referred to as 'hard currencies', become the medium of exchange. The United States dollar has been successively devalued. I suggest to the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  that one of the things that we ought to do is to renegotiate contracts that were written in United States dollars. I appreciate that this is not always easy but it has been done before and I think that we ought to do it again. Also we should recognise that there is a difference between external and internal control. We can make particular adjustments for particular industries. I hope that this Government will make sure that valuable Australian industries are properly protected. This applies to both secondary and primary industry. 
A country is as rich as the goods and services it produces. We ought to be encouraging production. Australian industries should be judged on their viability within the Australian economic context and not judged by some other yardstick which may be drawn from outside. For instance, Australian industries should not be judged against those of a country which has a very low labour cost. At the same time I think that we should be careful that we do not indulge in featherbedding. We should make sure that industries are efficient. I believe that sufficient criteria are available to enable us to judge this. 
The proposed legislation is another step on the way to regulating the economy. Once upon a time all these steps were held to be wrong by people with a conservative political point of view. These people now accept much more readily that a government, through various controls, ought to exercise some restraint and help industries from time to time. I remember that for years when people suggested that wool pies were operating in Australia - the Honourable Reg Pollard often talked about these things in this House - it was said that nothing could be done and that the law of supply and demand determined what should happen. 
During the last couple of years corporations have been set up to guarantee a floor price for wool. This is one of the factors which has enabled the wool industry to recover. When the people who manipulated the industry realised that the Government would control it they decided that they could no longer manipulate it to the same extent. I do not suggest that this is by any means the sole reason for the change in the price of wool, but I believe that it is one factor. 
I believe that the Government's power under this measure should be extended. We should be looking to some means of guaranteeing to manufacturers and primary producers who are operating efficiently that the produce that they sell will be properly marketed. The Government should take some sort of interest in what goes on in this field. I do not believe that confidence will be lost because of revaluation. Revaluation was a necessary step to save Australia from, among other things, being taken over completely by foreign risk capital. 
There was a need to act and the Government acted. I believe that it acted decisively. I can see no reason why any changes which have been brought about by revaluation cannot be adjusted by the use of other measures. We do not want to get into a situation again where Australia is inundated by risk capital. In conclusion I should like to commend the Bill to the House. It is one more step along the way to ensuring that exports will be protected properly. It is an extension of a step which has been taken before. I believe that we should take a great many more of these steps in the future. 
I rise in this debate to discuss both matters which are covered by this Bill. I compliment the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  for raising the point about education. Sex education is one of the important factors to be considered. This Bill is one legislative measure which can be taken by this House to ensure that women are not discriminated against in our society when it comes to the purchase of contraceptives. The whole principle of imposing a sales tax, as I understand it, is that it is a revenue producing measure and it is also used to assist in preventing the purchase of luxury items. I think we have come far from the day when in our society we considered contraceptives and their use as a luxury. They are very important. As a former school teacher I believe that this country ought to be doing a great deal more than it is at the moment in educating young people and in this respect I support the remarks made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb). 
It seems quite ridiculous that we expect people in our society to act with a proper respect towards one another when we do not give them the education that is necessary. Moral education does not just mean preventing people from stealing, cheating and murdering; it means educating the whole personality. How can we educate the whole personality, how can we make sure that our people are properly educated if we do not consider something so important and so basic as sex education? This does not need to be done in an underhand way, as it is often done now. It does not need to be ancillary to the rest of our education. What we should be thinking about is giving children a fully rounded education. 
I agree with the honourable member for Wilmot that this education should be given in the home first. In this respect it is most important that parents be given the right sort of education and encouragement so that they can pass their knowledge on to their children. I think most honourable members will agree with me that it is not easy for parents to give their own children a fully rounded sex education. This is something very important and basic to us. Most people have a certain degree of reserve where this subject is concerned. One of the things we must consider and one of the things that this Government can do through its education policy is to use the Commonwealth Department of Education to give a lead to the States, to provide the finance and the facilities to give children and parents a fully rounded sex education. 
I was interested to hear some of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  He seemed to indicate that zero population growth, when related to Australia, should be considered as a separate matter. I do not believe that is the case. I believe that when we consider zero population growth we are considering a world problem. The population of the world has increased enormously since the Industrial Revolution and since medical science has managed to control diseases such as smallpox and tuberculosis which once wiped out hundreds of thousands of people. Even such illnesses as pneumonia have been almost completely controlled, particularly when contracted by younger people. Because of the controls of medical science we have reached the stage where even comparatively small modern families contribute to a very rapid growth in the world's population. 
I do not think I am speaking like a latter day Malthus when I say that unless we control our population, the world's resources will not be adequate. I know there are economists who disagree with that view.  Dr Colin  Clark of Melbourne has written a number of papers on the subject. When one looks at the figures - it is a matter only of looking at a simple graph - one sees that the world population is increasing at a much faster rate than our ability to provide resources. After all, we do not want to live in a world in the future of 20 or 30 times the present population - that was the figure  Dr Clark  mentioned the other day - even if it were possible to produce the food that would be required for that sort of population. Living in that sort of a world would be like chooks living in a battery cage. I am not saying this is what the Leader of the Opposition or any other members of the Opposition have suggested, but when we come to consider zero population growth I think it is quite futile and useless to consider it merely as a question of what we are going to do in this country. We are part of the world. What we do in this country contributes significantly to what goes on overseas. When the honourable member for La Trobe mentioned this fact I considered that he was quite correct. 
The Leader of the Opposition raised the question of child care centres. The previous Government did not do nearly enough in this field. There is much more to be done. I will be most desperately disappointed if this Government does not do a great deal more about child care centres in the future. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the need for more child care centres and the remarks made previously in the debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Although the previous Government took some useful action in this field, on which it should be complimented, I believe that this Government will do much more. It is pleasing to note that we on this side of the House will be able to count on the support of the Opposition. I believe that this matter is one in which the Parliament as a whole can make a real contribution to the welfare of the Australian people. It is important that, in considering child care centres, we think of them as providing a service not only to those women who work but to the whole community. In my mind there is no reason why women who care for children at home should not, on occasions on which it can be justified - that would be on many occasions, I would imagine - leave the children in a properly staffed child care centre so that they can do some shopping, visit an art gallery, go to the pictures or do any of the other things which many women, because they have to care for their children on a 24-hour basis, find it difficult to do. I find completely untenable the argument which was put by the Leader of the Opposition that government action in promoting population control as an unwarranted intrusion into the freedom of the individual. Are we to allow the old and discredited economic concepts of complete freedom to operate in this day in relation to social affairs? If we are, those members of the community who are less competitive in society will suffer. Any decent society would not allow this to happen. Of necessity, some controls and regulations are necessary. When considering controls and regulations, the important factor is to see that basic rights and reasonable freedom of action are not infringed unduly. In short, the matter is one of balance. 
In mentioning matters of sex education, 1 did not mention what I believe to be a very important factor, and that is the regard which we should have for one another as individuals. This should be emphasised more than it is. Boys and men should be taught that girls and women are not sex objects to be exploited for their pleasure. Girls and women should be taught that boys and men are not there just to provide them with a succession of escorts. Real consideration for people as human beings, each with his or her contribution to make to society on a free and equal basis and unhindered by past discrimination, should be a basic aim in our society. Of course, population control is not only a matter of providing good sex education and of making contraceptives available at a reasonable price to men and women who wish to use them; it is a matter of quality of life as much as a matter of birth control. It is pleasing to see that the Commonwealth Government is taking decisive steps to improve the quality of life in our cities and to build more pleasant urban areas. Through full and proper co-operation with the States we can build a much more pleasant and satisfying urban environment at no more expense than our present expense. 
I believe that the contribution made by this Bill in removing the sales tax from contraceptives, thus making them generally more easily available, will improve the quality of family life. Parents should be assisted with the free choice, which they have in theory, to regulate the size of their family. Family planning clinics should be available much more readily. In the municipality of  Diamond Valley, of which I am still a councillor, the Council recently established a family planning clinic. The Council was assisted to a considerable extent by the State Government. The field is one in which I believe further CommonwealthState co-operation is possible and desirable. Family planning clinics should give advice not only on contraceptive techniques but also on the proper spacing of children, how to manage a budget - especially in the case of young parents where the wife can no longer work - and family organisational problems. These clinics should be staffed by people who have wide practical experience, extensive training and a sympathetic and understanding approach. Ideally the staff should be drawn from the community in which the clinic is situated. I believe that the Commonwealth can make a very valuable contribution in this field. 
The Leader of the Opposition criticised also an attitude which he believes the Government has to migrants. We on this side of the House welcome migrants. We will do everything we can to see that they are integrated into the Australian community. Successive Liberal-Country Party governments in previous years have a lot to answer for because of the way in which they treated migrants. Far too many children of migrants were given their schooling in areas where facilities and accommodation were inadequate and, in some cases, deplorable. The classic argument was that education was a State responsibility. Previous governments overlooked the responsibility that they had to migrant children. Despite the serious situation which now confronts the Labor Party as a government, I believe that resolute steps should be taken to see that migrant children receive education which is equal to the best, not the worst. 
I have been impressed by some of the things that have been said by honourable members opposite. Happily we now live in a society in which this Parliament is not being urged by any of its members to reject the Bill. 1 believe that this is a healthy, sensible and humane attitude. Only if we continue to act in this way when we are confronted with social matter such as this will we be able to assist as well as is desired those people whom we represent. Unwanted pregnancies are the principal factor in abortions. If we are to control the number of abortions we must do everything possible to see that all children are wanted and that all pregnancies are desired. This is the ideal. The matter is a complex one which I do not wish to go into in detail at this time, but 1 believe that the measure to remove the sales tax on contraceptives, as proposed in the Bill, is only one of a wide variety of family support, counselling, education and other social welfare programs which this Parliament should consider and support. We can prevent a great deal of misery and unhappiness if we are prepared to assist people to make the right decisions and if we face up to the difficult and complex questions which we will be called upon to discuss. Closing our eyes to important social and moral questions will not make them go away. Action is required. 
I believe that the principle of removing sales tax on both categories of goods mentioned in the Bill is sound. Sales tax is a flat tax and, as such, has no regard to the ability to pay. I believe that we should look at the complete range of sales tax with a view to considering other measures which might be more equitable and efficient. It would be interesting to calculate the cost to the Commonwealth of the actual collection of the tax and to the sellers of the goods in making their individual calculations. I do not know whether information of this sort is available, but I think that it would prove most instructive. Many people have complained to me about the time it takes them to calculate the sales tax on the goods they sell. The cost probably runs into very many millions of dollars. The whole question of equity and rationalisation of taxes should have the early attention of this Parliament. 
Previously I mentioned the provisions in  the  Bill to exempt the payment of sales tax on goods used in the conversion to the metric system of weights and measures. One point I make is that the provisions will reduce the price to the consumer. I think the Government should be congratulated on that. The Bill will have the effect of reducing the cost to manufacturers and others affected by the decision, which has been taken already, to convert to the metric system of weights and measures. One would hope that this cost saving would be passed on to the consumers. Already there are disturbing signs that some people will use the understandable confusion in the minds of many people to make exorbitant and unjustified profits. I have a newspaper cutting from which I wish to quote. It is from the 'Australian' dated 14th August 1972. It states: 
Complaints that manufacturers are using the conversion to metric measure packaging to increase prices are being investigated by the South Australian Prices Commissioner. . . . 
The article went on to say that he was examining price movements which could occur with changes in container sizes and product weights during the metric conversion. The article continued: 
It is not possible to make an exact conversion to the equivalent metric weight of a product, and some products will be a fraction lighter and some a fraction heavier. 
But unfortunately there are some people who are blatantly charging the same price and altering the packet size. Of course there is a price control commission in South Australia. It seems to me that the proposed legislation to set up a Commonwealth prices justification tribunal cannot come too quickly. I think that we ought to be addressing our minds to what other measures this Parliament can take to control prices. The House will remember that in 1948 the people of Australia rejected, among other things, a proposal to give the Commonwealth power to control prices. I do not know whether it is possible to consider this matter again, but I think that honourable members ought to consider it because there are so many people who are suffering. I believe that the Australian people would support any move to give the Commonwealth power to regulate prices. I do not see how we can properly control our economy if we do not control all the factors that operate within it. 
I notice that my time has just about finished, so I wind off by saying that I believe the Government is to be congratulated for making provision in this Bill to assist consumers by reducing the price of goods by the removal of sales tax on goods which are the subject of metric conversion. I particularly commend not only the steps which are set out in this Bill to remove sales tax from certain goods but also the very quick and decisive action which the first Whitlam Government took in making it clear that tax on contraceptives was to be removed. They are both important measures. One is mainly of economic significance; the other is of economic significance and very wide social significance. I commend both aspects of the Bill to the House. 
I rise to support the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill of 1973. This Bill validates the undertakings which have been made since the new Government took office. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant),  in this second reading speech said: 
I believe that the situation in which the Aboriginal people of Australia find themselves is a national disgrace. 
This is not only due to Government inaction, it is due also to the fact that the Australian people have not recognised, over the decades, that the Aboriginal people deserved a much better deal than they were getting. I appreciate the remarks  ot the  honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and I pay tribute to him for what he has done over the years in expressing the sorts of ideas that we have heard him express tonight. I also pay a tribute to the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and other honourable members opposite. I believe that there is a great deal of goodwill in this matter and that the Parliament can give a lead to the people of Australia. A lead is necessary in this matter. I also pay a tribute to the work which has been done by members of the Labor Party over the years. I have in mind the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  and many other honourable members on both sides of the House. 
I pay a special tribute to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  As honourable members and many people outside the House know, he has given years to the cause of the Aboriginal people in Australia. No place was too far away for him to visit and no time was too inconvenient. He always found time and effort in the cause of the Aboriginal people. He did more than talk; he worked, ft is a great pleasure to me to see him appointed as Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs. He is an old and trusted friend, not only of mine but also of the Aboriginal people. I believe that he will do a great job as Minister. He is a big man and with a big task to perform he needs our support. 
This Bill provides an additional $7. 5m for the Aboriginal people. In saying that it is very much needed I do not seek to denigrate the work recently done by the previous Government. In New South Wales an additional $1,030,000 is to be provided; in Victoria $100,000 for special projects; in Queensland $2,910,000; in South Australia $470,000; in Western Australia $2,926,000; and in Tasmania $64,000. A prolonged reading of figures becomes tedious and boring but in a couple of areas we should take cognisance of what is provided; for instance, in the field of health. In Queensland an additional $866,000 is to be expended, partly as follows: $60,000 on food assistance for children under 6 years; $250,000 for child health clinic at Bamaga; $240,000 for water supply and sewerage works at 5 places in Queensland; and $1.55,000 for hospital facilities at Normanton. In Western Australia $500,000 is to be supplied for vehicles, buildings and other centres and doctors' residences. As the honourable member for Mackellar quite rightly pointed out to the House, more is needed than the expenditure of money, but it is an essential lubricant to assist in providing facilities. 
We need to have goodwill but we also need money. The allocations amount to an extra 53 per cent and I am sure that we will get good value for this money. People sometimes assert that money spent on Aboriginal affairs is wasted. From time to time one hears that if Aboriginal people are given more money they will spend it on drink. From the figures I have cited it is clear that most of the expenditure will be on capital works. Honourable members will see from a close study that it is being spent in ways which will add initiatives for the Aboriginal people. It will enable them to produce more and will thus give them a sense of self-respect. This is very important and cannot be over-stressed. 
The Minister said in his second reading speech that he calculated that nearly 90 per cent of Aborigines were living in absolute and acute social depression. We cannot allow that to continue. This measure is a first and important step in doing something about it. Various speakers have mentioned tonight that complaints are made in communities with a large number of Aboriginal people. Complaints are made that money is being spent on Aborigines when it ought to be spent for other purposes. It is not a question of competition. It is a question of providing the necessary money for the Aborigines and their advancement. It is also a question of providing additional funds where it can be shown that the funds are needed. I think the House ought to bear this factor in mind in respect of the allocation of funds in any financial year. 
The constitutional position is very clear. Some discussion occurred the other night on whether the Government has a mandate for the various things it wishes to do. Taken to an illogical conclusion it could be argued that the Government does not have a mandate for anything, when a point by point examination is made. The Government has a general mandate to govern and that is about where it begins and ends. But on the question of the constitutional rights of the Aboriginal people there is no doubt that the Parliament has absolute and complete constitutional powers and an absolute mandate. About 90 per cent of the Australian people decided that this Parliament ought to make laws for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. There is a long way to go. As I said in my opening remarks, we will need to work together in this field. If we start to criticise one another by saying that the Government is not doing enough or that former governments did not do enough, we will lead ourselves into an intellectual morass. It will be very difficult to extricate ourselves from it. We must make sure that we speak with a united voice in this Parliament and give a united lead to the Australian people because they have given us a mandate. 
The Minister referred to land right. When we consider this question we must understand that Aborigines who live in a tribal state have a direct link with the land they occupy. It is part of their spirit world and their very being. That needs to be recognised. It is easy to understand why the early settlers in Australia did not realise that situation. They did not understand that the very rocks and trees on the land have a meaning for the Aboriginal people. Where we can still do something about this I believe we must. 
We must consult with the Aboriginal people. We need to talk to them and to train people to talk to them. We need to understand how they think. There is a great need for discussions which involve them. On the question of housing, we need to make sure that the housing is suited to their environment. That does not mean that they are to be given shoddy housing. They need housing which blends with the environment, suits their purposes and allows them to make adjustments if they wish to do so. The amounts provided for special projects in the Bill are a very good way of helping in the urbanised area. As the honourable member for Kooyong pointed out, the Aboriginal people are becoming increasingly urbanised. We need to make sure that if they live in urban areas, and this applies to country towns as well as big cities, they are provided with work. This Bill makes provision for this. We need to give Aboriginal people a sense of achievement. There is great dignity in working. Thank goodness I have never had to suffer being out of work but anybody who has suffered unemployment feels it very deeply. One of the best ways in which we can assist Aboriginal people in urban areas is to make sure that as far as possible unemployment is reduced. 
The Minister has said on many occasions that if he does not significantly reduce infant mortality among the Aboriginal people he believes that the Government will stand condemned. I believe from what I have heard about the measures which are being taken, particularly in the field of getting nurses who speak the Aboriginal language to talk to Aboriginal women - here it is again a question not only of money but of approach - that by doing these sorts of things we can reduce very significantly the rate of infant mortality among the Aboriginal people. We need to educate the Australian people as far as racial discrimination is concerned. One of the ways in which we can do this is to recognise that Aboriginal people are distinctive, that they have their rights and that these rights ought to be respected. 1 believe that most members of this House, whether they be supporters of the Government or of the Opposition, would hope for the ideal situation in years to come in which the colour of a person's skin would be no more a cause for comment than the colour of his eyes. We must do something about discriminatory laws as they affect Aboriginal people. Here it is a question of using the mandate that was given by the Australian people in the 1967 referendum. This House ought to recognise, and 1 believe it does, the right of Aborigines to be a distinctive but not a separate people. We can and we must assist the Aboriginal people. 
I again congratulate the Minister on the start which he and the Government have made. I wish him well. I believe he has the support of the vast majority of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I pre  sent the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
 In speaking to clause 3 of this Bill. I am rather amazed at the attitude of the Liberal Party which for so long has said that it believes in democracy and used other words which tend to mean the same thing, f am amazed that it has not seized the opportunity presented by the introduction of this Bill to put a few teeth into its sentiments. 1 am amazed that it is letting the albatross of the Country Party hang around its neck yet again. The Country Party is entitled to representation. I have lived and worked in country areas. I admire country people. But, when it comes to a question of who is to represent whom in the national Parliament, country people are entitled only to the representation which they can earn. That means one vote one value. One can talk all one likes about whether the margin should be  5  per cent,  10  per cent,  20  per cent or whatever one likes, but as nearly as possible - this Bill and this clause point in the right direction - representation should be on the basis of one vote one value. 
I am amazed that the Country Party thinks that the people of Australia, let alone this national Parliament, will believe that Country Party members should enjoy more advantage than anyone else in Australia enjoys. When we talk about whether the margin should be  5  per cent,  10  per cent or  20  per cent, we should consider the size of electorates. I have a table which shows that, of the  125  electorates for this national Parliament,  61  have areas of from  5  to  150  square miles,  10  have areas of from  150  to  500  square miles and  5  have areas of from  500  to  1,000  square miles. The table continues in a fairly even progression to electorates with areas of from  10,000  to  15,000  square miles. There are  14  electorates in that category. Then there are electorates with areas of  200,000  square miles and more. The electorates of the Northern Territory and Kalgoorlie, in Western Australia, have areas in excess of  500,000  square miles. How on earth can one relate these figures to the difficulty caused by the area and remoteness of electorates from one electorate to another? In that sort of context it is quite impossible. 
If we are to try to make it easier for honourable members to represent electorates of large dimensions, we ought to have better ways of doing it. One of the interesting things about this argument is that in a State such as Victoria, which compared with the rest of this continent is fairly well populated, the same sorts of arguments are used in the State Parliament in discussions of the size of electorates and whether a smaller number of voters should be permitted in country electorates than in metropolitan electorates. The difference between the size of a country electorate for the Victorian Parliament and that of a country electorate for this national Parliament is so great that it bears no comparison whatever. The main differences in area when electorates are compared is not between the metropolitan electorates and the country electorates but between some country electorates and other country electorates. 
It is not the fault of anybody, except if people such as the honourable member say that there should be a weighting in the number of voters in country areas. The electorate of Darling - to pick a Labor seat - which is predominantly a country area, has an area of about  132,000  square miles. Even if the weighting of that electorate was such that the number of electors was only  50  per cent of what it is, there would still be no comparison between its area, which would be about  66,000  square miles, and that of the largest electorate in Victoria, Mallee, which is approximately  20,000  square miles. So there is no comparison on this basis. Of course, what the Country Party, unfortunately supported by the Liberal Party on this occasion, is trying to do is to preserve electoral advantage. It may be called malapportionment, which I suppose it is, or it may be called gerrymandering. But, no matter what it is called, the effect is the same. Certain areas and certain people, because of the area in which they live, are advantaged to the disadvantage of other people. Eventually that sort of system brings a national Parliament or a State Parliament into disrepute. It makes people frustrated with the system which we call democracy and which most of us in this place - I hope, all of us - uphold. 
I know that I have no real hope of convincing honourable members on the other side of the chamber, but I really hope that in the future they will give a little more consideration to these points. I particularly hope that the Liberal Party will give a little more consideration to them. The Australian people should have their say. They should not be stopped from having their say by a malapportionment of electorates.  1  should like to refer to a document which indicates the sort of action which has been taken by the United States Supreme Court on this question of whether an electorate should be above or below a quota. The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional a new redistricting plan but allowed its use for the  1966  election. The Court said that population variations of  8.7  per cent above the average and  7.3  per cent below it were still too large. In the United States it was held that every person's vote should as nearly as practicable have the same value and the same weighting. We should be trying to achieve this in Australia. 
Two principal jobs have to be performed by a member of Parliament. One is his constituency work. I believe that in larger areas - I hope I have shown conclusively that there is so much variation in the sizes of country electorates that there can be no real model for a large country area - some assistance should be given to honourable members if they can show that they have some disadvantage in representing people in their constituency work. The other main job of a member of Parliament is the making of national policy. This, of course, is what the whole question is all about. The Country Party and, I am sorry to say, the Liberal Party are opposing this legislation. I do not really believe that such opposition is ultimately in the best interests of the Liberal Party, and I believe that many members of the Liberal Party really think it is not. It is in the interests of the groups which have an advantage in the weighting of electorates and the value of votes to keep the present system. But this does not mean that the Parliament should agree to keep the present system. I would be just as opposed to the present system if the Labor Party were trying to introduce it. 
Spokesmen from the other side of the chamber have said that the Government is trying to gerrymander the electorates. This accusation will not wash because nobody will believe it. I believe that if we are forced to put this issue to the Australian people they will realise what the true situation is and will realise that in order to change it they will need to re-elect a Labor government, if the matter goes that far. I, for one, will support that proposition. 
I do not think we would be taking any risk. In Victoria at the election in 1952, with the biggest swing to the Labor Party that ever occurred, the main issue was electoral reform. I ask this House to agree to this clause and to carry the Bill because I believe that the measure will be to the ultimate advantage of the Australian people and democracy in this country. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been directed to the boycotting action by some doctors of the nursing homes admission procedures introduced by the last Government? How extensive has this boycott been and what action has he taken to minimise any undesirable effects, particularly on those elderly patients who are in urgent need of care and who cannot persuade their doctors to carry out the necessary procedures? 
-I present the Second Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has excited a great deal of comment in the Australian community; it has excited a great deal of comment in thisParliament. I think I should first of all explain why I have introduced this Bill. During the election campaign I made various statements - that I believed this was a matter of conscience; It was a matter primarily for the woman and her doctor; it was primarily a matter of choice. I believe that when I was given an opportunity to present this measure I, in my conscience, could do nothing else but move it. 
I believe that these sort of things ought to be discussed in this Parliament. I believe they ought to be discussed in the way in which I hope this debate will continue. I believe that on a matter on which opinions between parties and within parties is so deeply divided there ought to be an opportunity for an expression of conscience. During the course of this present campaign when I was asked how so-and-so on the other side of the House stood on this matter I refused to give any information whatsoever. My reply on those occasions was: 'This is a non-party issue. It is up to the members on the other side of the House, if they so wish, to express an opinion; otherwise I respect their privacy I hope this debate will be conducted in a manner befitting the dignity of this chamber. I realise it is a very emotive issue, but there are important factors involved and I hope that we would all have sufficient maturity to be able to discuss the matter in a befitting manner. 
This is a very complex problem. Law reform will not settle it. It will not be solved by that sort of approach but it is part of the approach. I see it as really one of the sides of a triangle. The first side is the need to have proper laws and proper procedures to regulate the matter. One other side of the triangle is that we ought to have much better sex education by properly qualified people and we should have adequate education in the use of contraceptives. The final side of the triangle, as I see it, is the question of social welfare - how the community supports those people who are less fortunate than others and how we tackle it at that level.I think it is appropriate to quote some of the clauses of the Bill.  1  suppose he most contentious clause from the point of view of the framework of the Bill is clause  7,  which sets out in the first instance the conditions for the lawful termination of pregnancy. It states: 
Subject to this Act, it shall be lawful for a person to terminate the pregnancy of a woman who is not more than twelve weeks pregnant provided that the person- 
is a medical practitioner; 
has reasonablec ause to believe and does, in fact, believe that the woman has been adequately and carefully advised concerning procedures alternative to termination open to her and concerning any institution or person  of a  public or private character including government departments and social agencies which may be willing to offer the woman, and if she bears a child, the woman and her child, financial and other assistance; 
acts at the request of the woman; and 
exercises professional care in performing the termination. 
I will be making some more comments on the rationale behind that later. During the course of the discussion, public debate and letter writing my seconder and I have received a number of suggestions for and against the Bill, expressing different points of view. We listened to the suggestions that were made and we made changes. Anyone who thinks that he or she has all the answers on this, I believe, makes a big mistake. First of all we reduced the period mentioned in the clause that I just read out to the House from 16 weeks to 12 weeks. This was done on the very best of medical advice. We included an advice provision, which I read out as part of clause 7. We believe that women ought to know precisely what the situation is. We made it obligatory that information about contraception be provided by the doctor. Last of all we strengthened and made even clearer the clause relating to conscientious objection. I think it is so important that 1 should read it. Clause 1 1 (1) state: 
No person shall be under any duty whether by contract or by any statutory or other legal requirement to participate in any termination of pregnancy to which in the circumstances he has a conscientious objection or about the wisdom of which he has a doubt founded on medical grounds or in which he for any other reason declines to participate. 
Sub-clause (2) states: 
No person shall be liable to any penally, disadvantage, handicap, discrimination or proceedings of any kind whatsoever by reason of that person failing or declining to participate in a termination of pregnancy, and evidence of such failing or declining to act shall not be admissible in any proceedings or otherwise taken into account.  1 ask the critics of the structure of the Bill to consider that particular clause because I believe it is a great deal stronger and affords much more protection than any similar clause in any other legislation in Australia, England or. I believe, the United States of America. The history of the law on this matter, of course, is long. There have been legal codes on this right back through civilisation. But with English law, from which our law is derived, the situation is that until 1803 England had no specific law on abortion. In that year, as part of an Act which contained provisions as to a wide number of offences including, for instance, defrauding of insurance companies, there was a mention of procuring a miscarriage. lt is quite evident from the wording of that Act that the intention was to preserve the life of the woman involved in an abortion. It must be understood that in those days any operation was extremely dangerous due to likely infection and particularly so in such operations as abortions. Because of the high mortality rate of women involved in abortions it was found necessary to pass this particular Act. This legislation was later redefined in the Offences Against the Person Act 1861. This Act was the basis for the law on abortion in Australia and remains the basis in all States and the Territories except South Australia. 
Of course, there is a difference between statute law and case law. Recent rulings in Australian courts, such as the ruling given by  Mr Justice  Menhennitt and the ruling by  His  Honour Judge Levine, make it clear that when an abortion is performed by a qualified medical practitioner and the doctor claims that the operation was performed in the interests of the patient, conviction is very unlikely. Unfortunately the situation in practice means that those women who are well informed about the necessary procedures and/ or have sufficient money are more likely to be able to obtain a termination of pregnancy than a woman less well informed and/ or who does not have sufficient funds. I believe that this is discrimination of the worst type. We have a responsibility to do something about it. As I said before, it is not a matter of whether one agrees with abortion - I do not, and very few people do - but whether, when it does happen, it happens under the most favourable conditions. People who have enough money can get an abortion on request, but what about other women? This situation has gone on for many years. It is about time we stopped it. The present law in the Australian Capital Territory is derived by ordinance from the New South Wales Crimes Act of 1900. Clauses 82 and 83 are the main clauses and attract the major penalties. They state: 
Whosoever, being a woman with child, unlawfully administers to herself any drug or noxious thing; or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means, with intent in any such case to procure her miscarriage, shall be liable to penal servitude for 10 years. 
Whosoever unlawfully administers to, or causes to be taken by, any woman, whether with child or not, any drug or noxious thing; or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means, with intent in any such case to procure her miscarriage, shall be liable to penal servitude for 10 years. 
This is a very repressive piece of legislation but, as I pointed out, by the rulings by case law it has been quite modified. However I do not believe that answers the situation by any means. I do not believe that women ought to have to go through a series of legal and medical gymnastics in order to obtain something that they have chosen to obtain. I believe it is truly a matter of conscience. It is unfortunate that due to the present structure of the law in the Australian Capital Territory it is not possible for the people of the Australian Capital Territory to consider this matter fully; nevertheless through the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council they have expressed an opinion on a number of occasions. On one occasion the Council stated: 
The Council is of the opinion that the present laws "applicable to the A.C.T. relating to 'attempt to procure abortion' are no longer in accord with the community's views and attitudes on this question and specifically make no provision for the special circumstances under which abortion should be permitted by law. 
This has been a traumatic point of discussion in just about every country. The United States of America, which also derived its law initially from England, has over recent years drastically revised its approach to the problem. In September 1969 the Supreme Court of California, in the first decision on the constitutionality of any anti-abortion statute, invalidated the pre-1967 anti-abortion law of California. In a 4 to 3 decision the Court held the statute unconstitutional on 2 principal grounds: Firstly, that the phrase 'Necessary to preserve life' was so vague as to be violative of the due process requirements for a criminal law, and, secondly, that the law was in violation of a woman's fundamental rights to life and to choose whether to bear children. The latter follows from the United States Supreme Court acknowledgment of a right of privacy or liberty in matters related to marriage, family and sex. The critical issue defined by the California Supreme Court was whether the state had any legitimate interest in the regulation of abortion which would justify so deep an infringement of the fundamental rights of women. The Court held that the state had no such compelling interest. 
Later, on 22nd January of this year, this was confirmed by the United States Supreme Court. It is a long decision but basically, by a majority of 7 to 2 the Supreme Court laid down that in the first 3 months of pregnancy the decision whether or not to abort is a matter between the woman and her doctor and the state cannot interfere with their judg ments on the matter. In the second 3 months of pregnancy the state may regulate abortion procedures in ways that are 'reasonably related to maternal health', such as the licensing of doctors and clinics. When the foetus becomes 'viable', that is when it could exist outside the woman, that state has an interest in protecting the unborn child and 'may go so far as to prohibit abortion during that period, except when it is necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother'. 
I point out to the House that this Bill follows closely the decision handed down by that Court in January this year. In fact, because of the various clauses that have been put into it, it is much better defined and in many ways more restrictive. The British position has been quoted a great deal. Towards the end of last year  Sir George  Godber who is the Chief Medical Officer of the Department of Health and Social Security in a letter appearing in the British 'Medical Journal' complained that there has been selective and incomplete quoting from his report on maternal deaths. He wrote: 
It is beyond dispute that deaths attributed to abortion are now at a sustained low level compared with the years 1961-66. 
He also wrote: 
Deaths attributable to illegal abortion have fallen from a level around 50 per year through the early 1960s to IS in 1969 and 11 and 6 in the 2 subsequent years. 
It is interesting to note that these figures from Britain show an improvement in the position despite the fact that if a woman applies to an unsympathetic doctor she may well find that she cannot obtain an abortion under the national health service and subsequently is forced to go outside the law. During the course of the public debate many statements have been made to the effect that reform of repressive abortion laws leads to dangers. In the English context the Wynn report is said to give most support. I believe that this report has been circulated to all honourable members. However, the report has been described by  Dr Malcolm  Potts, the Director of the International Planned Parenthood Federation, as 'biased, highly emotive, and in at least one of its statements totally incorrect'. However, illegal and badly performed terminations conducted relatively late in pregnancy can have serious after effects. The Wynn submission to the Lane Committee is in reality a good argument in favour of legal and controlled procedures rather than illegal ones. 
Medical opinion, as is the case with other opinion in the community, is divided. The following motion was carried at the May 1971 General Council Meeting of the Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists: 
That a majority of the membership of the Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists supports the view that there should be an alteration in laws on abortion so that legally qualified medical practitioners are free to exercise clinical judgment in this as in other matters. 
Perhaps at this time it is appropriate to quote from a book by Daniel Callahan titled'Abortion: Law, Choice and Morality' which has just been reviewed in Australia. He says: 
Abortionis a nasty problem, a source of social and legal discord, moral uncertainty, medical and psychiatric confusion, and personal anguish. If many individuals have worked through a position they find satisfactory, the world as a whole and most societies have not. There is scarcely a nation in the world which believes it has discovered the perfect solution to the legal, social and medical problems of abortion. On one point only is there a global consensus: the medical danger of underground abortions. 
A week ago today the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church agreed to a motion in the following terms: 
recognise that Christian people, who have reflected upon the matter, conscientiously hold differing views on abortion, and that in such circumstances Christians are called to learn from each other in a spirit of humility and tolerance; 
recognise that in a pluralist society the law may permit provision for abortion of which some Christians may not want to take advantage; 
acknowledge that the reform of the law governing abortion is a matter for Slate legislatures. 
The rest of the motion went on to refer the matter to the various States. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the report that went before the assembly. 
As is the case with other denominations, many Catholics take the point of view that it is wrong and dangerous to use the machinery of the state to maintain a particular view of morality. One Catholic to express this point of view is Father Robert Drinan S.J. who has said that he prefers complete repeal of abortion laws which would keep the state out of the business of decreeing who is to be born. A statement issued by the Roman Catholic Bishops of England and Wales in 1966 - this was before the English law was passed in 1967 - was as follows: 
Catholics do not demand that their own convictions should be imposed by law on all citizens but they are concerned that doctors, nurses and others who may be affected by the proposed legislation should not be forced to act against their own consciences. 
I agree with that statement. I think it is adequately covered in the Bill. 
Father John Reedy C.S.C., in the United States of America, a respected American theologian, said: 
The religious simplists who reduce all efforts at liberalised abortion laws lo 'anti-life propaganda' do a disservice to us all. We know loo many good, sincere, responsible people who seek the liberalisation of these laws precisely to improve the quality of life. They recognise the outrage of bootleg abortion rackets; they know that existing laws have not prevented desperate girls from submitting themselves to dangerous, degrading treatment at the hands of criminally incompetent quacks. They know that single and married women are at times so threatened by the thought of bearing a child that their own welfare - possibly the welfare of a family- is seriously threatened. I'm not arguing that this judgment is right . . . simply that unworthy motives should not be irresponsibly attributed to the people who defend it. This will make me unpopular with many Catholic spokesmen, but I believe that a Catholic, after serious examination of facts, theology and his own conscience, could responsibly support some liberalisation in abortion laws. (For example, on the assumption that the present laws produce greater evils). 
There is clear evidence that in France, for instance, which has repressive laws, there are two and a half times as many abortions performed as in England. This is despite the fact that England has a reasonably liberal law while France has a repressive law. The main difference between the 2 countries is that the British are well advanced in their use of contraceptives and the French are not. Italy is estimated to have as many abortions as live births. 
The arguments about repressive laws reducing the number of abortions is nowhere supported by the facts. In fact there is much more correlation between education in the use of contraceptive measures in a community than there is between permissive or restrictive laws. Of course, the law is only part of the problem. Regardless of whether a country has a permissive law, as in Hungary, or a repressive law, as in Italy, the number of abortions, illegal or legal, is directly related to the use of contraceptives. Statements that liberal abortion does not reduce maternal mortality are not supported by the facts. In New York the maternal mortality rate fell from 5.3 per 10,000 to 2.9 per 10,000 in the interval spanning the repeal of the previous law. Most of the arguments I have heard during the public debate are arguments against abortion, not arguments against abortion law reform. I think we should differentiate between those two. 
There is the intellectual dishonesty of those who talk about alternatives to abortion and fail to mention the only real alternative - practical and effective contraception. It is interesting to note that many of the same arguments were advanced against contraception as are being advanced against this Bill. One has only to go back in history to see that this is true. 
I do not believe that abortion can ever be thought of as desirable from the point of view of contraception, but it is really a question of how the law is operating and how it should operate in the future. One of the big problems is that many women do not understand the difficulties associated with contraception. Unfortunately, no contraceptive is 100 per cent safe. The failure rate varies between 20 per cent over the period of use for the safest methods lo 80 per cent for other methods. The real problem here is not with unmarried women but with married women. Family planning facilities must not only be readily available but also be known to be available. Every effort must be made to make them work. Statistics in England show that there has been an increased usage of contraceptives since the passing of the. present legislation. Any Act which does not give the woman concerned a reasonable amount of choice during the early stages of pregnancy is doomed to failure. It just will not be obeyed. 
Some people claim that adoptions are the answer to the problem. Statistics show that much greater psychological damage is done to the woman who is forced to have her baby adopted than is the case with an abortion. Many women become pregnant again shortly after consenting to an adoption. Some never get over the sense of loss. I believe that a woman has the right to choose. In response to a survey of over 2,000 women conducted in Sydney and Melbourne by the Women's Electoral Lobby, an overwhelming number of women answered in the affirmative the question: Do you believe a woman has a right to an abortion if she wants one? The use of the term 'abortion on demand' has been an obvious ploy to discredit this legislation. It is a statement which is not supported by the facts. I hope that this debate for the remainder of the time allowed will be conducted on a calm and rational basis. I realise that this is a highly emotive issue. However, nothing will be gained by this Parliament considering it on an emotive level. Whether they hold one point of view or another, the great majority of Australians would wish to hear the debate conducted in a rational manner. 
There will always be some risk in abortion, but the risk of continued pregnancy is often greater. I am strongly of the opinion that the state has no right to compel a woman to accept that risk. We ought to do something positive about the problem. Leo Tolstoy once said: 
I sit on a man's back choking him and making him carry me and yet assure myself and others that I am sorry for him and with to lighten his load by all possible means - except by getting off his back. 
The legislation is to try to do just that - to take the power of repressive laws away from women in this community. 
Abortion is always the last resort. It may be the last resort due to all sorts of factors but it is nevertheless a last resort. I ask those people who are so loud in their criticism to show real compassion for women in this situation. I believe that no one, least of all any member of this House, can ever really understand how a woman feels in this situation. It is a terrible choice for her to make. I do not believe that the law should interfere overtly in this situation. In effect, what those people who oppose the Bill do is to force those women who have already decided that an abortion is the only solution to the situation they find themselves in to delay until there is a real possibility of complications. The earlier a pregnancy is terminated the better. 
I respect the opinion of those who hold a contrary point of view but to me and to most people there is a great difference between a fertilised ovum and a foetus of 6 months gestatation. I thank the people who have written to me. I may not agree with ali the letters but I have read them. I appreciate why they have written them. I just hope that this Parliament will be able to resolve the matter either today or at some other time either by passing the Bill or by way of some other amendment to do something positive about this problem. Never again I believe after this debate will we be able to sweep this question of abortion under the carpet. The community must make a series of choices. Not all of them are pleasant choices because we are all individuals, we all have different points of view and we all suffer under different circumstances. I ask that this House give very serious consideration to this Bill. I know that it will. I ask that the House consider it in a spirit of compassion and in a spirit of trying to alleviate what is a very difficult problem. 
One would find it difficult to disagree with a lot of what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has just said. I think that he voiced a lot of thoughts which we need to consider in the future. Planning new cities, planning new growth centres and planning where people are going to live is not an easy task for anyone. I believe that a lot of poeple are missing the whole point when they criticise this Bill which, after all, is really just a vehicle for what is going to happen in the future. The Bill essentially involves changing the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to that of the 'Cities Commission'. However, the Bill foreshadows all sorts of action. I would like to point out to the House that the department concerned with this legislation is the Department of Urban and Regional Development; it is not the Department of Cities'. 
 The Cities Commission Bill will give the necessary emphasis for the particular work which needs to be done as far as our cities are concerned. I believe that emphasis is necessary. About 40 years ago Lewis Mumford wrote a book called 'The Culture of Cities' in which he coined the word 'megalopolis' when he talked about the way cities joined together to form vast urban conglomerations. The spectre of the megalopolis hangs over us in Australia. Unless we do something positive about what I believe will be a great problem in the future we will be faced with a huge urban sprawl, very much worse than we have now. For instance, in Victoria we could see a continuous urban area from the southern side of Geelong right round Port Phillip Bay to the other side of the Bay with a population of 10 million, 12 million or 15 million people. I do not believe that that is the sort of way in which we ought to plan. We need to give some sinews or guidelines to the Department of Urban and Regional Development, and this Bill is designed to do that. 
The problem confronting the cities is probably the biggest problem which faces this Department, but that does not mean to say that country areas do not need assistance; that country towns, or the small hamlets to which the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  referred, do not need assistance. Of course they do. I think that the guidelines which the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has set out in the various statements that he has made indicate that the Department will be just as interested in that sort of development as it is in development in the cities. But, firstly, the cities need our attention. 
I think that it was the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who talked about federalism. Unless we have a structure upon which federalism can really work, that concept will not work. Over the past few years it has become evident that local government authorities have become increasingly less able to cope with the situations that demand their attention. We need strategies for development which will enable the Department of Urban and Regional Development to assist both State governments and local government authorities to achieve properly planned development. Cities are an expression of man's organisational ability. They started off in a very small way. They started off basically as a means of defence against enemies, but now they mean much more. Cities can be very efficient, but once they have reached a certain size they become very inefficient. We, as a nation, will be much more efficient and we will provide much more p'easant habitation for the people of this country if we plan our cities accordingly. 
I think that one of the biggest problems that we face in Australia is the problem of transport. This is a big country, and when we put huge cities into this big country and try to get people to work across cities, we find that all sorts of difficulties develop. It is not of much use talking about a 35-hour week or a 30-hour week or any other figure which might be arrived at with increasing technology without considering the effort and time needed to get to work. Many people spend hours getting to and from work. On y this week I shifted my office from the centre of Melbourne into my electorate. It is not a great distance from the centre of Melbourne, but I am saving up to an hour and a half a day in travelling time and I can put this time to good use. Many people spend much more time than that each day in travelling to and from work. 
We ought to consider what will happen to the cities of Sydney and Melbourne and to the other capital cities if they grow much bigger than they are. I hope that one of the things that the Cities Commission will do is to consider the actual patterns of urban development. Do we need the sort of pattern that we have in most cities now? It is not just a question of sprawl; it is a question of how a city is planned. Hugh Stretton m his book talked about linear cities - that is, long cities where people were always close to a spine of public transport and to public open space. That is one concept which we could well have a look at, depending upon the topography of the country. If that type of concept were followed and there was, for instance, a very high speed rail service down the spine of a long, narrow city where everyone was within walking distance of open space areas, one could travel from one end to the other of a city that stretched for, say, 50, 60 or 100 miles in a shorter period of time than it now takes to get across Sydney or Melbourne. 
Planning in every way means progress. Without the sort of planning which the Cities Commission can give this country we are not going to achieve the objectives that I think most of us believe are necessary. It is not that the Cities Commission is going to consider cities only, but cities are an important part of man's development of this country. The Cities Commission will draw upon the resources of State governments and local government bodies to assist it in proper community planning. The Cities Commission's planning of new urban areas will assist in the reduction of pollution - air pollution, water pollution and noise pollution. In addition it will enable cities to be built - like the city of Canberra - where people can walk a few hundred yards away from their offices and be in pleasant surroundings with trees and lawns. This is not an impossible dream; it is something that can happen. But before it can happen we need the structure to enable it to happen. There will be problems, but we cannot have it both ways. We cannot draw up an extensive plan for urban development and expect that there will not be other problems arising before we implement it. We are faced with a situation that exists at the moment and we must plan according to what happens as we go along. I believe that the Cities Commission will be able to do that. I believe that it will be able to draw upon the resources and brains available and ensure that within a concept or plan we will be able to adjust to changing circumstances. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  mentioned the Yarra River and Finn's Reserve. Finn's Reserve is within my electorate. At that spot there is a great deal of pollution, although it is quite a distance from the city. The pollution is primarily due to household sullage. It is not due to septic tanks but to the fact that the State Government, the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works and, of course, the local council have not been able to cope with the growth that has occurred in that area. I do not know whether many honourable members realise that ordinary household sullage, without toilet waste, is half the concentration of raw sewage. If 100 houses are replaced by 200 houses and there is no sewerage but only septic tank treatment, the 200 houses will produce as much pollution as if all waste went into the creeks, rivers, streams and drains in the area. It is a problem that we must consider. In my electorate there is also the beautiful Plenty River. If development continues without proper planning the Plenty River will suffer the same fate as the Yarra River. There are already indications of that happening. 
I believe that the rivers and streams around our metropolitan areas are the lungs of our cities and that we must preserve them. The Cities Commission will provide a means by which the increasing urban sprawl can be contained, lt is my contention, formed over a number of years of association with local government and town planning matters, that unless public authorities either own or have control of the areas surrounding our major cities we will not be able to control this sprawl. The pressures upon governments of all character are so strong that very often planning considerations are overridden. 1 believe that large areas of land around our major cities should be bought at the ruling market price so that no one suffers to any extent, and that they should be either retained for public ownership or leased back to the people, farmers and others, who can put the land to good use. 
It was necessary to emphasise these very important questions by introducing this Bill. I stress again that this Bill does not mean that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is any less concerned about country areas and about the need to develop our smaller cities and towns. It does mean that this Government believes that proper emphasis must be given to the tremendous problems which face us in the cities, 1 support the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property a question. Last night's Melbourne 'Herald' carried the headline: Government gets Report of Fake Vote Plot'. In the story that followed the Chief Secretary in Victoria,  Mr Meagher,  is quoted as saying: I have received information that some people have falsely claimed enrolment for areas in which they do not live.' In view of the fact that the Commonwealth Electoral Office handles all enrolments, has  Mr Meagher  been in touch with the Minister? In addition, has the Minister received any other information regarding this matter and what action does he propose to take? 
I have the honour to bring up the third report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and I are both new members of this Parliament. It came as rather a surprise to me to hear him refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  in the terms that he used. If both of us can do as well for the people of Australia and the people of the electorates we represent as the honourable member for Macquarie has done, I think that we will have served this Parliament and this country well. 
One would think, from listening to the debate, that it was a question of Queensland against the rest. This is a national Parliament and we ought to be thinking about this issue in a national way. We are delegates and representatives of the Australian people elected to speak on their behalf in the national interest and not in the interests of the States. That is the important thing. It is the most important thing contained in this Bill. It is not a question of centralism at all; it is a question of whether the Australian people should be able to assert their sovereignty over the waters around our coast. Some years ago the Victorian Government made what I believe to be a grave mistake as far as the petroleum resources off the coast were concerned. 
It is an understatement. In Canada the national Government controlled the leases in that country and many hundreds of millions of dollars came to the Government of Canada through the proper sale of leases for petroleum exploration. This sort of money did not come to the State of Victoria. We see the sorry situation where schools, hospitals, roads and public transport generally go without sufficient funds because the interests were sold out partly to overseas interests. Let us see that this sort of thing never happens again. We owe loyalty to this country; not to particular States. I am amazed at the attitude of some of the members of this Parliament who try to make this a question only of State rights. In this country we certainly need co-operation between the States, but we need to think of ourselves, first and foremost, as Australians. The States lost their opportunity to participate in the councils of, as it was then, the British Empire in 1902 when they did not even deign to attend. 
I think that the Parliament agreed some years ago that this Bill was urgent and that it ought to be introduced. The time has now come. Having regard to the remarks that have been made, particularly those of the honourable member for Darling Downs, when the Bill comes to a vote it will be interesting to see how honourable members will vote on this issue as members of a national Parliament concerned with the national interest. Why should we not pass a Bill which will give the people of Australia, for the first time in our history since Federation, absolute and complete control over these assets which are of such great importance to the Australian people? We need to protect our environment and to conserve our national resources. This Bill will do. this. It is about time that we stopped talking about State interests and started to talk about the interests of the country to which we all belong - Australia. 
Question put: 
That the. words proposed to be omitted  (Mr N. H. Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I want to speak on the urgent need for constitutional change in this country, a subject which is, I think, rather appropriate having regard to what has gone on earlier this evening. As honourable members will know, the history of Federation in Australia had a rather tortuous path to follow during the late 1890s. The statesmen in this country - there were a few then - felt that there was an urgent need for Australia to be regarded as one nation, so a convention was called. Discussions extended over a number of years. It was decided to recommend to the Imperial Parliament that Australia become a Commonwealth, a federation of States. The Act to federate Australia and produce the Constitution finally was carried. It was a compromise constitution because State rights were just as strongly held then as they are now, perhaps more so. However, one wonders whether we have progressed very much in the last 70 years. 
The Constitution was out of date when the Act was passed; it is even more out of date now. Therefore I greeted the news that a new constitutional convention was to be held with a great deal of satisfaction. This convention will meet shortly. Due, I believe, to the activity of the Australian Labor Party on the question of local government and the need for it to be represented, local government will be represented at that convention. At a meeting held last Monday the steering committee agreed to recommend to the convention that local government be given direct representation consisting of 3 representatives from each State, 2 from the Northern Territory and one from the Australian Capital Territory and that representatives from each State should include one representative of the capital of the State. The steering committee decided further that the representatives be nominated by local government, but that the method of selecting the 3 representatives from local government in each State would be left to the parliamentary delegation from that State. The point was that the parliamentary delegates from each State should decide who to ask to select the representatives of local government, not that the parliamentary delegates themselves would choose those representatives. I believe it is long overdue for local government to be represented at the highest councils of this nation. 
Responsibilities of local government during the 70 years since Federation have changed a great deal. Local government bodies now are not concerned only with bridges, roads, draingage and associated matters. They are much more concerned with pre-schools and social welfare, providing sufficient public open spaces and sports ground and community recreation facilities generally. For far too long the ordinary ratepayer has had to bear the burden. One of the first steps we must take to see that the financial burden of supporting local government is spread more evenly, is to enable local government bodies to be properly represented where the real decisions are made. I believe that the coming convention will be a land mark. 
One of the real problems of local government finance is that rates, generally speaking, are fixed on a flat basis. Regardless of income, the same amount of rates is paid. This is particularly noticeable in areas where the unimproved capital value rating system is employed. The system has many advantages, but it also has a disadvantage which I will describe. In a residential area a pensioner may live next door to a millionaire. The millionaire is paying marginal income tax at the rate of 66c in $1. If he pays $100 in rates he gets a refund of $66. If the pensioner is unfortunate enough to live in a State where no rebate is given, he receives nothing back from the $100 rates that he pays, because he pays no income tax. It is a ridiculous situation in which a millionaire pays about $33 in rates and a pensioner pays $100. That is only one of the inequities of the present system. 
This Government is pledged to give local government finance from the Commonwealth 
Grants Commission and to allow local government bodies to be represented at the Australian Loan Council. Therefore we should see a change in the situation. Referendums in the Commonwealth have not been very successful in getting proposals carried. It seems to me that a convention to operate on modern lines with overall representation is the best means of changing a set of rules, for that is what the Constitution is, designed in a horse and buggy era, for more modern structure. The disadvantages of the States in respect of the Constitution are only too well brought out by what is happening in the States. 
I will refer briefly to my home State of Victoria. Let us look, for instance, at what is happening in regard to handicapped children. The Government has a policy concerning the welfare of handicapped children but it is not always able to implement it. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  invited a Victorian Government committee to give information to the Interim Schools Committee so that the Commonwealth could assist in the education of handicapped children in Victoria. The Victorian Government has not responded to the request. Experience in respect of a needs survey was similar. Victoria delayed giving information even to the Liberal Government that preceded the present Government. It did not make its material public in Victoria. It provided only limited information to the previous Government. Every other State co-operated. 
In the field of transport, the Bureau  oi  Transport Economics sought information from all States on transport needs during the term of office of the McMahon Government.  Mr Wilcox,  the Victorian Minister for Transport, was completely unco-operative which meant that Victoria was placed last because of the total lack of information. The report of the Bureau said that Victoria was the only State which refused to provide full details of its capital requirements. Victoria refused to allow the Bureau to run its own check on the economic feasibility of its demands for assistance for new projects. There are many cases of this lack of co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth. As I said before, we need more national planning. I hope that the constitutional convention which will be held late this month and in succeeding months will be able to do something about making sure that the needs of this country are properly planned for. 
Despite what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said one would wonder, on an examination of the statements that have been made and what is proposed in this Bill, what the argument is about. It is quite obvious to anybody who examines the Bill that it is necessary to have some sort of measuring stick. The arguments of the Leader of the Opposition about diamond mines and so on are just not credible. As far as I know, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd does not own any diamond mines, although in the past it has certainly been given advantages that Trans-Australia Airlines did not have. For instance, honourable members will remember that in past years there have been arrangements as to cross charters of aircraft. I refer to the cross charter of Viscount aircraft owned and operated by TAA with DC6B aircraft operated by Ansett Transport Industries, or Ansett Airlines of Australia, or whatever name the company happened to be operating under at that stage. In the past TAA was prevented by virtue of government policy from buying modern jet aircraft such as the Caravelle when it became available. Ever since the Liberal-Country Party coalition came into power in 1949 TAA has been at a disadvantage compared with the private airlines in Australia. 
This Bill proposes to put TAA on an equal footing with Ansett Transport Industries in the field of transport. All the additional clauses in the Bill mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition are clearly related to transport and ancillary services. I think it is appropriate that we should have a look at some of them. Clause 5, which seeks to amend section 19(1) of the Act reads, in part: 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or by land, or partly by air and partly by land, otherwise than between prescribed places and, within those limits, to provide accommodation and other services and facilities; and 
(o provide to the Commonwealth and 'authorities of the Commonwealth, for reward, aviation, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission . . . 
Clause 7 seeks to amend section 19f of the Act. This clause deals with joint services. It reads, in part: 
passengers or goods are to be transported between - 
a place in a State and a place in another State; 
a place in a Territory and a place in Australia outside that Territory; or 
a place in Australia and a place outside Australia. 
In the past by buying into other companies operating within the States Ansett Transport 
Industries has been able to compete on an unfair basis with TAA because TAA has not hitherto been able to operate in this field. This Bill proposes to put the whole thing on a firm and equal basis. I would also like to quote what was said by a former Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz: 
It is the intention of this Government, therefore, to introduce in the first sittings of the new Parliament a Bill amending the Australian National Airlines Act so that there is no question about Trans-Australia Airlines having the powers enabling it to engage in activities closely related to airline operation and to give effect to the Government's decisions. 
Having regard to that statement it appears to me that what the argument is about is a question of interpretation. It has been claimed by the Opposition that, by wording the Bill in the way in which it has been worded TAA will be at a distinct advantage. 1 think it is clear from the amendment now proposed by the Minister to define and give a measuring stick to the operation of the Act, that there is no intention whatsoever for TAA to force Ansett Transport Industries Ltd out of business. All that we are asking is that the people of Australia, as shareholders in a great business, be able to receive their dividends by way of service, and in the money that flows from it to the people, equivalent to the dividends received by the shareholders in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. 
Despite all the talk by the Leader of the Opposition, the Government supports a 2airline policy in Australia. We, as the Government, are happy with the situation as it obtains at the moment. The Bill does nothing to alter that situation. We believe that TAA should be in a position which will enable it to operate in a proper and competitive way. We do not intend to let TAA operate in the interests of private companies. Th. people have a right to expect that their airline operates in a competitive way. As to the question of socialism that has been raised, and having regard to the statements that have been made, one would be stretching one's imagination a great deal to justify the claim that this measure represents socialism by stealth or anything else. This is an operation within the capitalist framework of this country's economy. Do not let anyone on either side of the House fool himself. This is a capitalist country in the economic sense. This Bill certainly does not do anything about it, however much anyone in this place or outside it would like to see that situation altered. The associated activities of TAA are ancillary to the operation of that business. This Bill particularly as it is now defined and as the amendment defines it, will enable TAA to operate In a competitive way. It will in no way damage Ansett Transport Industries. The Government believes in a 2- airline policy. We agree that the airlines of Australia, both government and privately owned, have offered a valuable and safe service to the people of Australia. The safety record of Australia's airlines is second to none in the world. This Bill does nothing more than carry out the stated intention of the previous Government. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
I call the honourable member for Griffith. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration a question. Is it correct that there has been a change in the Government's immigration policy, as reported in the Melbourne 'Age' this morning? Is it also correct to say that the Government has re-started the immigration program? 
1 appreciate what the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  has just said, but it is for precisely some of the reasons he outlined that this degree of flexibility is needed in the Bill. In Australia there are more than 900 local government bodies. There will be difficulty in allotting finance. There will be difficulty in working out exactly what is a region and what is a regional project. For these reasons we need flexibility. We are starting to move into a very different field in financing projects. I believe there is sufficient accountability through the finance which is allotted annually by this Parliament to ensure that there will be sufficient control. If we so hedge about with regulations the whole question of giving finance to local government bodies and regions, we will never be able to achieve what we want to achieve. 
I draw to the attention of the Committee statements made in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  They referred to a topping up process. I believe it is necessary for a great degree of flexibility to be given to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in order to enable allowance to be made for the main points and main desires of this legislation. It is important that we recognise, as does this Bill, that there are 3 tiers of government in Australia and that it is not sufficient to have the States controlling local government completely and absolutely any more than it is desirable for this Parliament to have complete control over the States. I believe, principally for reasons of flexibility, we should accept the proposal originally put by the Prime Minister and not carry the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Parramatta. The flexibility that will be gained and the advantages which local government bodies will get are the important considerations. 
On the whole question of what is a region under the regulations it seems to me that one could have a situation where there is a project of regional significance which falls principally within the boundaries of a particular municipality and, therefore, one needs some statutory body to carry out these works. I believe we need to pay account to this aspect otherwise the whole system will break down. At present there are few regional bodies with sufficient statutory power so this degree of flexibility is needed. 
I ask the Minister for Health: What is the number of doctors in practice in Australia? What percentage of these doctors graduated in Australia and what percentage graduated in Asia or Africa? Has there been any change in these percentages? Are any restrictions placed on registration in Australia of Asian and African graduates? Is the number of doctors graduating in Australia sufficient to keep pace with community needs? If not, are there plans to increase training facilities and opportunities? 
I present the fourth report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
It gives me a great deal of pleasure as a representative of an outer metropolitan area to speak on this motion. The statement of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to my mind gives new hope for the quality of life in our cities. The Minister, if I may say so, is a harbinger of new hope for urban life. The history of cities is a fascinating study, but if such a study teaches us anything it is that more planning is necessary in the quality of human life in our cities if we are to preserve that essential quality. 
The statement, in conjunction with the other things that have been discussed in this Parliament on similar matters since the new Government took office, is a landmark in every sense of the word. It parallels the entry of the Australian Government into education in the early 1960s. That was a big change in the way the Commonwealth sought to assist education. These statements are a big change in the way in which the Australian Government wishes to assist urban life and regional development. 
Before I continue I think I should say something about the remarks of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Firstly, he mentioned loan funds. Honourable men: ben will know that in the Budget the sum of $60m is mentioned for loan funds to be given to the States to allow them to do work in urban and regional development. The point that I wish to make is that the long term Commonwealth loan interest rate, with deferred interest, will apply in the early years. The effect of this will be to capitalise the amount of interest so that the money can then be repaid from the income from the land developed. With the current growth rate as the land increases in value income will come from it and the money will be easily repaid. 
The Commonwealth is not unmindful of the need to assist the States in this way but it is impossible, particularly in the early stages with so many calls upon the Australian Government's funds, to enable everything to be done at once. This is just another way of getting things rolling. The Government proposes to make a 3-pronged attack. It proposes to improve the quality of life in our cities. It proposes to decentralise development and establish new cities. It proposes to promote regional growth. We wish to see balanced development within our nation and within our cities. We want to see a balanced spread of community facilities within our cities. We do not wish to see a continuation of the situation, particularly in our very large cities of Sydney and Melbourne, where essential public services are remote from the people from the point of view of both transport and accessibility in other ways. 
As the Minister has said, we are providing in this Budget $33m for growth centres. This is a very significant start and a very significant contribution to balanced planning and development in Australia. I congratulate the Minister and the Government for the meaningful commitment to proper planning and balanced and progressive development. Apart from the overall planning aspects, what does the Budget allocation mean? It means that people who live in the outer metropolitan areas will be given new hope for the improvement of the quality of their life, a new hope for better transport and a new hope for the control of stream and river pollution by the provision of money for sewerage works. 
I should like to bring to the attention of honourable members some of the other matters which the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  outlined in the Budget Speech the other night. Apart from the growth centres and the loans which have already been mentioned both by myself and the right honourable member for Higgins, we are to provide S30m for sewerage works. It may sound a mundane subject to many people but we all know that the lack of proper sewerage in our large urban areas has had a very deleterious effect upon the environment around our cities and in our cities. Water pollution is largely caused by the lack of proper sewerage. We are providing money for the western sectors of Sydney and Melbourne. We are making a significant contribution to urban public transport. The total expenditure is to be $136m by 1973-74. 
I have mentioned planning and balanced development. This planning is a continuing and developing process. As the Minister has said, it comes from the studies undertaken by the Cities Commission. Already the expert advice of the Cities Commission is of great value and studies are progressing in all States. I do not think we need to reiterate the regional development projects listed by the Minister except to emphasise that every State is to receive positive, planned assistance. 
While I am talking about the sort of assistance that the States will get, I should like to answer the remark by the right honourable member for Higgins about the acquisition of land. As many honourable members know, the Commonwealth under the Constitution is able to acquire land only for defence purposes or for special Commonwealth purposes. In any case, I feel that it is a good thing that we are co-operating with the States. The States will acquire the land for the projects. I do not imagine, and I do not believe that anyone imagines, that the States will acquire land on anything but just terms. In fact, acquiring land usually works against public authorities. I know from my experience in local government that we were often held up by people who owned land and who knew the price was rising. They delayed selling so that the ultimate payment was much greater than the market value of the land when we first indicated that we wished to purchase it. Land is acquired at just prices, and if there is any inconvenience to the owner an additional amount often is paid as well. 
Because it is indicative of the type of assistance being provided, I mention the provision of funds which enable the construction of a second railway track between Macleod and Greensborough in my electorate. The cost of the duplication will be approximately $700,000. In addition there will be amounts provided for station facilities. Of this money, two-thirds is to be provided by the Australian Government. The Australian Labor Party, when it was in Opposition, talked about the need for this project. We are now acting to redeem that promise. 
One of the greatest problems facing young people in Australia and particularly young married couples is the great cost of land. This Government recognises this problem and proposes to take urgent steps to do something about it. Land buyers and the community generally must not be left to the mercy of land speculators. The co-operation of the States in stabilising land prices and making sufficient land available is of great importance. I should like to see local government brought into this co-operation by the various States. I am sure that it can be. lt has worked very well in many other countries. Quality of life is more than the provision of services such as sewerage and transport. It is also the provision of adequate educational, cultural, community, sporting and recreational facilities. As the Minister has pointed out, the need for additional recreational land is of great importance. The Government is providing significant loan funds to the States for this purpose. 
Previous Liberal and Country Party coalition governments failed to live up to the challenge of our times. The National Urban and Regional Development Authority was established one month before a critical election, and after more than 20 years. No money was provided. It was an advisory body. There was no talk about existing cities. This Government has set up a government department - the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It has provided money. This is the first time this has been done. The previous Government did nothing for local government. It said that it was not its responsibility and that local government was the child of the States. Therefore, local government had no resources, no manpower, no money and huge debts. Growth was at the expense of co-ordinated development. I have always felt that there was a tendency to spend on individual electorates for narrow and parochial political advantage. T his Government will not do this. Projects will need to be justified and they will need to fit. into a co-ordinated pattern. 
The criticism was made, when the. Cities Commission Bill came before this House, that we thought only of the cities. This is far from the truth. We do not intend to develop the cities at the expense of the country but to achieve complementary development. Under previous governments the drift to urban areas was greatly accelerated. I think the Minister mentioned in his speech that between 1947 and 1970 less than half the percentage of people were living in country areas rather than in urban areas. We know who was in government during those years, or at least all but two of them. The previous Government talked about decentralisation but it took no real, practical steps. It is the height of hypocrisy to suggest that the Government is not concerned with country areas. This Government will do much more to achieve balanced development. 
As I said at the commencement of this speech, there is now new hope for the quality of urban and regional life in Australia. As a representative of an area which has suffered because of the lack of planning by previous governments I welcome the statement of the Minister. The statement will continue to give encouragement to those who believe that planning is more important than disorganised development and that people are more important than profits. We do not propose to denver into the hands of speculators the vast increase in land values which will occur because of these plans. It is not a question of acquiring land at just prices; it is a question of making sure that the people of this country are not exploited. The people of Australia want action on balanced development. This Government will provide the money and organisation to do the job. The Labor Government has done more than talk; it has acted and has acted well. By the year 2000, if growth continues at the present rate, we will be faced with huge urban populations. At least 5 million people will be living in Sydney and 4.5 million people in Melbourne. In any case, the Victorian State Government is having another look at the master plan for the Melbourne metropolitan area. It has come to realise, as have many other people in Australia, that the continuance of urban growth, which is both unplanned and extensive, will have a serious effect on the quality of life. This Government wants to do something about urban decay. We do not want to see the inner parts of our metropolitan areas become places for huge masses of freeways. In doing all these things, we will not ignore the States. This has to be a co-operative venture. 
We will assist in the provision of funds, in proper planning and in the overall coordination. We seek the States' co-operation. 
Finally, I refer to migrant problems in our inner urban areas. These have been caused by action taken or not taken in the past. The provision of funds for the western sectors of Sydney and Melbourne will go a significant way to doing something about this situation. We will do something about the problems which the migrants have had to labour under in previous years. It is not good enough to bring people here and expect them to exist without proper facilities. This Government will do something about all the problems. I congratulate the Minister for his statement and I hope that the House will support the motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In yesterday's 'Age' under the sub-heading 'Minister plans to by-pass State', the Victorian Aboriginal Affairs Minister,  Mr Dickie,  is quoted as saying that the Australian Government's initiatives concerning Aboriginal housing were 'just another example of the Commonwealth bulldozing the States out of the way'. Will the Minister indicate whether the incident at the weekend will inhibit initiatives to improve Aboriginal housing in Victoria? Does the Minister intend to by-pass the States in this matter? 
 As has been outlined by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  the purpose of this Bill is to control access, parking and other matters concerned with the campus of the Australian National University. It gives the Council of the ANU power to make statutes to control traffic and parking. One of the most important factors in maintaining the campus as it is, free from too much motor vehicle traffic, is to make sure that access to the campus is properly controlled. Honourable members may be aware that recently University Avenue was blocked off near the Copland Building. Although this has meant that some vehicles have to go further around, anybody who has been to the site would agree that the University has benefited. This measure will give the ANU power to control parking. I am indebted to the honourable member for Warringah for citing the relevant figures. He mentioned a figure of 4,819 places. When the other categories of parking are added the total by 1980 would be well in excess of 5,000. The figure usually regarded as proper for a parking place is about $600. On that figure we arrive at a total cost of $3m which indicates how much money, apart from the cost of the land, is taken up in the provision of space for parking motor cars. 
The Bill gives the University Council power to have vehicles towed away and discretionary powers in respect of fines. Anybody who has walked through the campus of the Australian National University has been impressed by the layout, by the large area provided for the needs of the University. I think we would all be concerned if the volume of traffic grew to such an extent that the beauty of the buildings and grounds was detracted from by too many motor cars occupying the open spaces. The idea of blocking off roads to deny access to vehicles is not new. It is rapidly gaining support in areas where municipal councils need to control the volume and access of traffic in the same way as the University Council needs to control its traffic. 
The honorable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  would be aware of the action taking place in part of his electorate. Side streets have been blocked off and traffic has to go around rather than through the area. In my electorate of Diamond Valley action has been taken by the Eltham Council and is proposed to be taken by the Diamond Valley Shire Council. We need to adapt our cities and living areas to the motor car. We will have motor cars in the immediate foreseeable future and we need to do something about controlling them. We cannot allow the motor car to take over. I have mentioned the town planning aspects of control of parking. This is particularly applicable in the Australian National University. As with Canberra, it could be a model for the rest of Australia. 
Doubtless, if traffic is allowed to speed unimpeded through the campus injury and perhaps death well be caused to pedestrians. We ought to assist in keeping the campus a safe place. Honourable members will be aware of the tremendous cost of road accidents in Australia and of the pollution caused by motor cars. They will be aware of the tremendous cost of maintaining individual transport in the way in which we have it now. From figures made available to me I have estimated that the cost of road accidents is in the vicinity of $ 1,000m a year and the cost of maintaining motor vehicles is annually about $4,000m. I believe that we can use our money much better. What better place is there to emphasise these aspects than in the Australian National University? 
There are alternatives. The honourable member for Warringah mentioned a free bus service within the campus. This sort of move is very important. Dial-a-bus services have been instituted in some cities. People ring up in sufficient time before they wish to travel and request transport. The route of the bus is programmed by a computer and the use of private motor cars is reduced. In San Francisco the Bay rapid transit system or Bart, has been developed. We could well use a similar system in Australian cities but I do not suggest that it should be developed in the grounds of the ANU. While I am mentioning matters associated with transport and the control of traffic I would like honourable members to give some thought to a final development in transport. I believe that individual transport is here to stay and it is not good enough for us simply to talk about public transport. The ANU has provided an alternative to students so that they do not need to bring their motor cars on to the campus. We as a community must act in the same way. 
While public transport can be very much improved it is not a final answer to the problem. I look forward to the time when we will have a system of fully automated individual transport which will cost no more than the tremendous sums being poured annually into individual motor vehicle transport. 1 see no barrier from the point of view of technology or cost. One great advantage would be in the saving of lives and another would be in the preservation of our environment by use of a system to dial a vehicle and then to dial the destination. 
Universities are places where ideas can grow. I hope that the powers provided in this measure when enacted will enable the University to be a laboratory for some of the town planning ideas associated with traffic. It is only a small contribution to what we need to do but I believe that it will be supported hi this House and at the University by the lecturers and other staff and the students. These people have shown a great interest in town planning matters and I am sure that this measure will have their support. I support the Bill. 
It is interesting to note that every  speaker  from the other side of the House who has spoken today in this debate which has centred on education has confined himself almost entirely to a discussion of the category A schools referred to in the Karmel report - a very small part of the total report. I remind the House that the Committee was appointed on 12 December 1972 and reported on 18 May. In a little more than 5 months the Committee produced a report outlining a blueprint not only for progress in education but also for equality. For far too long Australian children have received an education which in many cases and in many areas was inferior to that provided in countries with a similar standard of living. Australia was once one of the leaders in world education. Unfortunately this proud record was all too soon surpassed by other countries. 
One of the outstanding characteristics of the Liberal and Country Parties during recent years has been their sense of timing. They have surpassed themselves today. Because of school holidays thousands of teachers and students who would otherwise have been unable to listen to this debate are in a position to hear the Opposition defending the status quo in education - the old schools, the poorly equipped schools, the lack of autonomy and decentralisation in education, the poor staff facilities and the lack of teacher controlled professional training. When the Opposition condemns the Karmel Report it condemns all recommendations which aim to change the situation with which we are faced after 23 years of conservative, selfish and discriminatory government. 
How fortunate it is for the children of parents and teachers in the Australian community that education will not be forced to undergo yet another period of stagnation. We said quite clearly, and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has just explained, that we would not be able to do everything at once, that we would fix aid according to priorities. We have made a very significant start. I remind the House of the things which  we  propose to do in this Budget. The tertiary and post-primary students allowance scheme will cost $58m. Provision has been made for the Australian Government to assume full financial responsibility for tertiary education, and a sum of $2 12m has been appropriated for this purpose. Assistance to technical and further education will amount to S25.6m. In primary and secondary education programs of assistance to Australian schools in accordance with the recommendations of the Karmel Report will total $97m. A new program of financial assistance totalling $ 1.75m has been introduced for low income families and $9. 8m has been provided for assistance in the education of isolated children. Although a report has not yet been brought down on preschool education an initial amount of SI Om has been set aside. 
I come now to education for special groups. The Aboriginal secondary grants scheme will attract $5.7m and $2m has been provided for the purchase of demountable school rooms for migrant children attending special English classes. A sum of $350,000 wm be allocated to research and development in education, an area of education long neglected. Support to the extent of $500,000 will be given for the establishment and maintenance of an independent curriculum development centre. The total outlay by the Australian Government on education in 1973-74 will be $843m, which represents an increase of 92 per cent over 1972-73. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that the Government is not spending an additional 92 per cent but only 60 per cent, on the ground that the States were spending $145m on tertiary education. The Australian Government's allocation is on condition that that $145m so saved will be spent on other areas of education. Therefore the argument of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is without foundation. 
I should also like to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this morning. I believe that the honourable member was engaging in some semantic quibbles on this matter. In fact the Government has kept its promise and this has been reinforced by what the Minister has said this morning. We have more than kept it. We are giving more than 321m in recurrent grants to non-government, non-systemic schools. The argument is about the way in which this money is to be apportioned. I direct the attention of honourable members also to the Coombs report which was tabled by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on the night the Budget was presented. In that report it was estimated that 64 per cent of all parents claim $100 or less as a taxation deduction for education expenses. I am reliably informed that approximately 25 per cent claim more than $150. As honourable members will know, the upper limit is $400. Most of the parents in the 25 per cent group send their children to category A schools. If the suggestion in the Coombs report, which could have been implemented by the Government and which the Press indicated might have been implemented, had been implemented, $55m would be saved over 2 years. The saving in cutting the recurrent grant to category A schools is approximately $5m. Honourable members can easily see who is advantaged and who is not. 
I direct the attention of the House to the grants which have 'been made to the category A schools over previous years. In grants made to 30 June 1973, science program grants which will be made until 30 June 1975, and libraries program grants which will be payable until 31 December 1974, all schools which the Opposition believes have been so badly done by and are to be so badly done by have received or will receive in New South Wales $2,411,000, in Victoria S4,017,000, in Queensland $372,600, in South Australia $993,000, in Western Australia $1,095,000, and in Tasmania $336,000- a total of more than $9m. These schools have this money while children exist in disgraceful conditions in many of our other schools. I have taught in some of these schools. I taught for 2 years in a girl guides' hall with 2 classes present. Those children were not receiving the sort of education to which every Australian child is entitled. That was a state school. Nearby was a Catholic parochial school in which conditions were very much the same. 
That is the situation we want to change. We are not satisfied with the present situation in education. We want to change it. We will change it. We will not be put off in implementing the tremendous recommendations of the Karmel Report. I take my hat off to the Karmel Committee for the great work it has done. We will not be put off carping criticism of honourable members on the other side of the House in implementing the recommendations of the Karmel report and helping Australian children. I challenge any honourable member on the other side of the House to talk about quality in education, community involvement in education and diversity in education. Community involvement is something that we will have to ensure in Australian education. We want to see teachers brought into the education system more than they are now. We want to see parents involved in the education system. We want to see a series of community schools which the community feels are its schools and in which the children will have some relation to the community around them. The Karmel report contains all these recommendations. I challenge again honourable members on the other side of the House to talk about this section of the report. They have talked about nothing except category A schools. 
Nothing except privilege, as I am reminded by the honourable member for Casey. We must do something about the schools which need our assistance. We will do this and it will go down in the history of education in this country that this Australian Labor Party Government has changed the whole face of education in Australia for the benefit of the children, the parents and the community. 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

I direct a question to the Minister for the Northern Territory. I preface my question by saying that over a period of years disturbing reports have appeared in the Press concerning conditions in such prisons as Fannie Bay gaol, particularly affecting Aborigines. I therefore ask: What is the present state of the prison system in the Northern Territory? Apart from the prisons as such, is it acknowledged that there is a need for penal reform in the Northern Territory? If so, what action is being taken to bring about reform? 
This Bill is another example of the way in which this Government is fixing priorities. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  speaking to the Bill. He said that the Opposition will support it. I am very pleased to hear it. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar for his consistent advocacy over the years of the abolition of the means test. However, some of his arguments, I believe, just do not stand up. I will refer to those arguments at the appropriate time. Of course, it is not possible to do everything at once, but a very good start has been made. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his policy speech, said: 
We are coming into government after 23 years of opposition. This program is ambitious. I acknowledge that. It has to be so; it should be so; because the backlog is so great. And we cannot expect to clear away that backlog in 3 months or even 3 years. 
Of course, there are those who criticise because everything is not done at once. I acknowledge their right to do so. However, we on this side of the House have an equal right to point out where such criticism is inaccurate and hypocritical. This Bill is a positive move towards equality and social justice. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Government are to be congratulated. I spoke a moment ago of inaccuracy. The point made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in his speech bears some elaboration. On 22 August last the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  asked the Minister for Social Security whether the Minister agreed that pension increases were falling behind average weekly earnings and that pensions would not catch up. That is the very same sort of point that the honourable member for Mackellar was just making. Six days later the Leader of the Opposition continued this line of argument. In his Budget speech the Leader of the Opposition said: 
These increases, totalling $3, will raise pensions from $21.50 to $24.50 by the end of the financial year. This is an increase of 11.4 per cent. Yet the Budget estimates that during the year average earnings will rise by 13 per cent. In other words as a result of the present Budget - and its inflationary consequences - the aged pensioners, the widows, the invalids on social security will fall farther behind average earnings rather than beginning to catch up on them. 
The Leader of the Opposition concluded with these words: 
Where does that leave the pensioner with his 11.4 per cent increase? 
The way in which the Leader of the Opposition has calculated this figure is interesting. One way to calculate the percentage rise is to divide $24.50  -  the figure that aged pensions will be at by the end of the financial year if no other interim increase is made - by the $21.50  -  the figure before the Budget - and then multiply the quotient by 100 over 1. This gives a result of 113.95. Then by subtracting 100 you obtain the percentage increase of 13.95 or, let us say, 14 per cent. What the Leader of the Opposition did was to look at the result calculated in this way, take the first 2 figures of the 113, put in a decimal point and call it 11.39 or 11.4 per cent, correct to the first decimal place. Even if one follows the rather dubious logic of the Leader of the Opposition in the section of his speech entitled Inflation and Pensioners' his whole argument falls to the ground on this arithmetical error in a sixth grade sum. As a former primary school teacher I feel that I can give the Leader of the Opposition no more than 2 out of 10, and then only for effort. 
The honourable member for Mackellar spent a good deal of his time speaking about the means test. I believe - and I believe that this Government thinks this way - that everyone who has paid taxes during a lifetime's work is entitled to receive a pension. When this Government introduces its superannuation scheme this principle will be permanently enshrined in legislation. Such legislation was promised by our political opponents more than 30 years ago and they did not do anything about it except as far as the tapered means test was concerned, and that was not good enough by half. 
While I am talking about equity I draw the attention of the House to the speech by the Minister, particularly that part dealing with fringe benefits. He said: 
The Government has decided that the 1967 means test will continue to apply for 'fringe' benefits eligibility but that the pension increase to be paid in the autumn of 1974 will not extend benefits to people whose means are outside the new limits now proposed. The pension increases provided in this Bill will lift the disqualifying limits of means as assessed for 'fringe' benefit eligibility by $1.50 a week to $37 a week for 'single' pensioners and $3 a week to $57.50 a week for pensioner couples. What this means is that a married couple may have a combined income of up to $86.50 a week, including pension, and a single person a combined income of up to $49.50 a week, including pension, before eligibility for fringe benefits ceases. 
I think it is important that we should note the following statement of the Minister: 
There are many people in the community, such as young marrieds with families to support, homes to establish and pay off and a future to be made, who have less income than this but are denied such benefits. This raises questions of equity. We will give special consideration to the needs of all people through programs supported by the Australian assistance plan and programs to be developed following on the findings of the Henderson poverty inquiry, which of course, will provide useful guidelines for us here. 
We need to note that there are some people on the minimum wage in Australia who are badly off and who also need a lift in their income. I agree with the abolition of the means test and I have expressed this point of view in election campaigns for this House since 1966. The abolition of the means test is a very important aspect of the work of this Parliament and the working of our social services system. It will encourage production in an age when people are living much longer as a result of developments in medical science and better nutrition. 
I believe that in our community there are many people who have a great deal to give after the normal retiring age. Our society should not penalise them; they have something to offer. 
The abolition of the means test also will save a great deal of administrative cost. When the means test finally is abolished, in the life of this Parliament, this saving will occur. I draw the attention of the House to the one-line reference in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Under the heading Means Test', he said: 
The means test will be abolished within the life of the next Parliament. 
We are on the way to the keeping of that promise, and when it is kept we will not have a great number of spies moving around the countryside and spying on people over the age of 65 years to see whether or not they are eligible for a pension. That will save a great deal of money. In the Budget Speech of 1968 the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  as the then Treasurer, said: 
Indeed, I believe it will be clearly seen that the Government has placed the objective of helping the aged, the sick and the needy in the forefront of its domestic programs. 
Let us see what was the record of the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. Let me read out the pension increases provided by the previous Government from the 1963 Budget onwards. In 1963 single pensions were increased by $1 while the pensions received by a married couple were not increased; in 1964 the single pensioner received an extra 50c a week while a married pensioner couple received an extra 50c a week each; in the Budget of 1965 pensioners received nothing; in 1966 single pensioners received an additional $1 a week while a married couple received an additional 75c a week each; in 1967 there were no increases; and in 1968, which was the year of the Budget Speech from which I just quoted, single pensioners received an extra $1 a week while an extra $1.25 a week was provided for married pensioner couples. 
In the years from the 1968 Budget until this Government took office, married pensioner couples received increases of $1.25, $1, $1.75 and $1.50. In 1969 single pensioners received an additional $1 a week and in the succeeding years they received increases of $1, $2.25 and SI. 75. These figures completely refute the point which was made by the honourable member for Mackellar. Since this Government took office, it has increased pensions by $3 - a greater increase than in any other year from 1963 onwards. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Having regard to the serious problem of dental caries, what action is being taken by the Australian Government concerning the operation of the school dental service? In particular, I would like to know the present situation in Victoria. 
 Mr Speaker,  when the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was speaking he indicated that I had interjected. I did nothing of the sort. I merely shook my head in disagreement with what the right honourable gentleman was saying. 
Question put - 
That the motion  (Mr Snedden's)  be agreed to. 
 I would like to make it clear that these Bills are part of a consistent policy by both the former Government and the present Government in the move towards complete independence by Papua New Guinea. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  seemed to indicate - I think he even said this - that we were in danger of pushing Papua New Guinea into an international void. I do not believe that this will happen. One of the things that give me a great deal of hope in this regard is that earlier this year I was privileged to take part in the first all-party parliamentary delegation to visit Papua New Guinea. I am well aware that many members of this House have paid many visits to Papua New Guinea and know a great deal more about it than I do; but I think it was important that the Australian Parliament was represented in this way as Papua New Guinea approaches very shortly self-government and finally independence. I was very impressed by the way in which this delegation, representing all political parties in this House, approached the task which had been entrusted to it. I certainly learned a great deal not only from those members of the delegation on my side of the House but also from members on the other side of the House representing their particular party, and for this I express my gratitude. 
I do not believe that we will force Papua New Guinea to do anything that it does not wish to do. I recognise that in the highlands and in other parts of Papua New Guinea there is a feeling among many people that we could be moving too quickly; but this is understandable when we consider that many of the people in the highlands of Papua New Guinea were living literally in the Stone Age at the time of the Second World War. The advances which they have made and the advances which have been made possible by Australian administration over a period of time, I believe, stand to the credit of all concerned. Independence will come to Papua New Guinea when the people of Papua New Guinea decide that it is time for them to have it 
The principal Bill in this series of Bills merely sets out that the time for formal selfgovernment will be 1 December. As the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  said in this second reading speech, to all intents and purposes self-government exists now. The Ministers in Papua New Guinea who will be charged with making the decisions in governing their country make those decisions now. The principal Bill is a symbolic Bill; it is an historic Bill. The Territory has the sort of self-government which I think we want to see it have. I was impressed by both the political leaders and the administrative leaders whom I met when we visited Papua New Guinea. They arc first class. I believe that they will do the job which will be theirs, if not now then in the future. I recognise that there is still a long way to go, and in this regard Australia bears a heavy responsibility. We will need to assist with the development. I do not think we will sever the umbilical cord that ties us together. We will still need to give Papua New Guinea both the intellectual and financial nourishment it requires. 
I was impressed when we visited Mount Panguna, site of the copper mine on Bougainville, to see the effort that had been put into establishing technical education. The facilities that have been provided by the company are first class. Sometimes we are bound to criticise the fact that large corporations come into this country and other countries, but I think that we should balance it by saying that in many cases they do good things. I believe that this is one of the good things that Bougainville Copper has done on Bougainville. I understand that shortly 82 per cent of the persons employed in what is a fairly technical operation will be indigenous people. We cannot give up our responsibility to provide the necessary finance to Papua New Guinea. This is a continuing obligation upon us. 
I would like to mention briefly the local government situation and the feelings of trepidation that we , noted about the approach of independence. The structure of the local government council is very well developed. I think the people there were impressed by the fact that an all party delegation from this Parliament could express very similar views that, no matter what government was in power in Australia, it would continue to support them. This is an obligation that has been undertaken by all parties in this Parliament. I am quite sure that given that sort of assistance and assurances the move both to self-government and to independence will be a relatively smooth one. We should do everything within our power to see that extreme nationalist movements are not given the food they could feed on eventually to undermine the stability of the country. I think it is the right, and I uphold the right of anyone, to express strong opinions in government but I hope that these strong opinions are expressed in such a way as to lead towards the unification of the country and not to emphasise the separateness which is also evident to many people. This Parliament has a great responsibility in this matter. The way in which the Bills that come before this House are discussed will have an influence on the way in which the people of Papua New Guinea approach the tasks which lie before them. In the structure of local government there is a firm foundation upon which to build. Soon Papua New Guinea will achieve independence. I hope that when it occurs it will receive the help and support of Australia. Papua New Guinea will have to work out its own destiny but it is up to us to see that the path is smooth. 
I have the honour to bring up the sixth report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the House. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation by saying that following a request by the Diamond Valley Shire Council that the Victorian State Government indicate clearly whether it was prepared to accept Commonwealth funds for the duplication of the Macleod-Greensborough railway line, the Victorian Minister for Transport,  Mr Meagher,  informed the Council that conditions had been attached which would make the coordinated approach to the administration of transport, which has been initiated, practically unworkable. Therefore I ask the Minister: Has the offer of money been accepted? Will the money be spent on this badly needed duplication? What is the present situation? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What (a) quantity and (b) value of (i) ambergris, (ii) whale meal and (iii) whale solubles was produced in Australia in 1972. 
I believe that this report is a landmark in Australia's legislative history. I hope that the legislation which will flow from it will be something of which we will be very proud. I believe it is a privilege to speak in this debate. My interest in this subject goes back over a number of years. One of our problems as a community is the way in which we have come to accept road accident casualties as inevitable. Even the word 'accident' is a misnomer. I do not believe that we should think of them as accidents any longer because they are preventable provided we take the action necessary. 
At this stage I join the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is paying a tribute to the work of the  Chairman  and to the Committee staff, who have assisted us in our deliberations. It is interesting to note that this report, which comes from a Committee made up of members of all parties in this House, is unanimous. I hope that action which will flow from it will also have a great deal of unanimity. The recommendations of the Committee in this instance cover a number of matters. This is the first of a number of reports which will be brought down by the Committee and placed before the House for consideration. Firstly, the Committee recommends that the Australian Government should examine the constitutional framework in which any road safety legislation would work. Secondly, it recommends that the Australian Government should legislate for the creation of a national authority on road safety and standards as a statutory authority with a full-time commissioner of First Division status. The report then goes on to list the functions of such an authority. It covers all those matters which bear upon legislation for road safety. 
One of the problems which the Committee came across in its deliberations and in hearing witnesses who came before it was that the various State authorities have so many different ways of approaching this problem. There is not one form for the reporting of road accidents in any one of the States or Territories which is the same as those of others. This makes it very difficult and in fact impossible for the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics to draw up uniform data. One of the problems with road safety in Australia is that we do not really know the full extent of the problem and where we ought to act first. Nevertheless, there is sufficient guide to enable us to do a great many things. For instance, as far as road accidents affect vehicles, we know that there are 2 major aspects. One is the prevention of accidents by designing vehicles so that they are better controlled, by designing environmental factors such as more divided highways into our roads, by better signposting and by having much better road marking. I might digress here to say that some of the evidence placed before the Committee showed that effective road marking could cut road accidents by as much as 70 per cent to 80 per cent. That is something .that I think we should not overlook. 
The other major factor, of course, is the driver. Unfortunately human beings remain the sort of people they are for most of their lives. We can train them. We can persuade them to drive better, as some companies do with their drivers. But most drivers, although they have a quite highly developed degree of physical skill, do not always have their minds on the job. They do not drive as they are physically capable of driving because mental factors rom into it. So this is the problem relating ' the prevention of accidents. 
Facing up to the problem that road accidents will occur, we must look to see what we can do about the prevention of death and injury should an accident occur. There are several ways in which we can approach this. We can strengthen cars - programs are being developed in many countries now in the development of experimental safety vehicles as is being done both in the United States of America and Germany. Some of these vehicles are very large and heavy and quite grotesque in design. However, other vehicles have been designed which, while affording the driver and his passengers maximum protection, are well designed and pleasing to look at. I would suggest that this is a field into which Australian motor car manufacturers might well enter. 
In regard to individuals, the major problem of course is with pedestrians. Large numbers of pedestrians are killed every year; the figures vary from State to State. Most of these persons are either very young or elderly and it seems to me that the only way in which we are going to solve the major part of this problem is to separate pedestrians and vehicles. A great deal of publicity was given recently in my own State of Victoria to a school crossing accident. These are the sorts of things that should not happen in a well organised society. The separation of pedestrian and vehicles is very expensive but it is the only real answer because while pedestrians come into close proximity with vehicles accidents will occur. 
I was interested to note in the Press following the presentation of this report to the House that the  Chairman  of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons road trauma committee,  Mr  E.  S. R. Hughes, urged the States to cede their powers over road safety legislation to the Federal Government so that a national road safety agency could be created. He urged the 
States to agree quickly to the necessary constitutional changes. I am not sure that all these constitutional changes are necessary in the first stage, but I think it would be a good idea.  Mr Hughes  said: 
Increasing carnage on Australia's highways has created a state of emergency. 
He went on to say:   . . the road trauma committee fully supported recommendations made to Federal Parliament last week by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. A national emphasis on road safety would mean we could come to grips with this national epidemic. There would be no more pussyfooting or conf usion over the many issues. 
Unfortunately this did not meet with the approval of the Victorian Chief Secretary,  Mr Rossiter. Mr Rossiter  replied that any move to give the Federal Government the powers on road safety would be 'over my dead body'. The Melbourne 'Age' very correctly pointed out that  Mr Rossiter  did not quite understand the situation. The article said that what was proposed by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety was that there should be a national authority headed by a first-rate full time commissioner to advise the Federal Government on all proposals for financial assistance to the States on road safety. We do need a national approach to this problem and I hope that those Ministers in charge of road safety in the various States will come together with the Australian Government to see what we can do about the problem. 
I point out to the House that if deaths on the roads continue at the present rate, approximately 100,000 people will die over the next 27 years in road accidents. It is necessary to state this fact. Honourable members are aware of the huge numbers of people who go to see a major football final. Imagine that number of people being wiped out and the tremendous suffering that the loss of those people would cause. The toll on our roads is running at a rate equal to the number of deaths in a major war. We must look at this problem in the same way as we would look at defence needs in a major war. If we were faced with a problem in time of war, would anyone of us say: Where is the money? We cannot, do it. The problems are too great' Of course we would not say that. We would take whatever steps were necessary. That is what I believe we must do now. 
We must consider safety features in vehicles and safety features on our roads. These do save lives. The introduction of seat belts is an outstanding example. Following the intro duction of the compulsory wearing of seat belts in Victoria, the road death rate fell by 13 per cent in a year. This was despite the fact that not every person wore a seat belt. I also bring to the attention of the House the need to protect children. We still see small children unrestrained in vehicles moving in heavy traffic where the driver may need to stop suddenly. We still see small children moving about in fast moving vehicles on our major highways. We should be able to design seats for these children and educate people to see that that sort of thing does not happen. 
The cost of road accidents in monetary terms has been mentioned in the report. It is very difficult to estimate what it is, but I believe that it could be as high as $ 1,000m per year. The cost in human terms is tremendous. How can we ever measure the cost in human suffering? Yet, we do measure some intangibles in our society. How does one measure the value of a famous work of art? We put a value on works of art occasionally. How do we measure the value of music or the pleasure that people receive from sport, television, theatre, poetry and all sorts of human intangibles. I believe that we need to put a much greater value on human life than we are doing at the moment with respect to the effect of road accidents. 
This major national problem needs a national solution. We must not be content to accept the situation which has developed. This report, I believe, will be only the first step on the way to action which will change the legislative framework of our approach to road safety in Australia. In so doing, with goodwill and in the belief that any money expended will be more than returned, even in monetary terms, we must all work together in this Parliament in the same way as the members of the Select Committee on Road Safety are working together. When the time comes for a decision, we must make that decision unanimously in the interests of all those people whose lives will be saved and in the interests of the suffering which will be prevented if we take such action. 
I always enjoy the speeches my friend the hon ourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  because he injects a great deal of wit into the chamber which this place can often do with. He talked about all the possibilities of the Government going into business. He said that under these Bills we would take over; that they would lead to socialism; that they were ingenious measures. Then the honourable member for Moreton entertained us with the story about groundnuts. Of course government enterprises can fail in the way that private enterprise can fail, and we have seen many of them fail over the years. The whole situation is that the National Investment Fund, when established, will be used to invest in a wide variety of enterprises for the benefit of the Australian people. 
What are we discussing? We are discussing a plan for the future development of Australia by Australians. In his second reading speech on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had this to say concerning the establishment of the original Australian Industry Development Corporation: 
So the AIDC was given the job of tapping overseas capital markets for loan funds, and putting these moneys at the disposal of predominantly Australian companies - to help them to undertake, or participate in, new development or expansion. 
Within its terms of reference, this has been a great success. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out, there are people who are prepared to give off their skill and capacity to assist the AIDC in this end. The Minister also said: 
The processing industries are the kind of industrial development we want in Australia - and I think some other countries want it in Australia too- but we also want Australians to share to the greatest extent practicable in the ownership and control, and the rewards of that ownership and control of those operations. We want a fair deal for Australians, and we include Australian capitalists in that desire. 
We live in the sort of society where we have a balance between government and private ownership, and there is no intent whatsoever in either of the Bills before the House to alter that situation. We want to see that ownership in this country, whether it be government or private, is under the control of Australians. The Minister also referred to the way in which projects are to be financed. He said: 
. it is possible to finance projects with little or no return in the early years but high growth and income at a later stage. Such projects cannot be financed with loan money. 
In other words he said that we want to use the amount of money which is available in the community in the way in which private enterprise uses it. If a person buys shares in a newly developed company he does not expect a great return in the early stages, and we hope that this legislation will work in precisely the same way. The Minister also said: 
These arrangements will give every Australian an opportunity to gain a stake in his country's future development by making weekly contributions in a convenient manner, from his pay to a savings plan, or by buying investment bonds. 
This is an appeal to the feeling of nationalism - the feeling of national pride - which I believe that the vast majority of Australians have. They ought to be in a position to invest in their own country, and they are not able to do it at the moment - not to the extent to which this Government believes they should be able to. Perhaps I ought to say a little about the National Investment Fund itself and how it will work. The Fund will be operated by the AIDC and an independent supervisory council established under Part IV of the Bill, comprising persons with appropriate investment skills. I underline that because it is important, and I would agree with speakers on the other side who have said that this is important, but who also suggested of course that we would not get it. I believe that we can. These people will be appointed to look after the interests of the subscribers. The AIDC will manage the Fund and select and evaluate suitable investments within the AIDC's charter. The Council will be responsible for the general investment policy of the Fund and no investments will go into the Fund without the council's approval. 
Just imagine if we discover additional oil and gas resources off the coast. Instead of having to rely on foreign investment, what a marvellous thing it will be for all Australians who wish to do so to participate in this sort of development. As I see it, the future will be a time when we will have effective Australian control over our resources. We have often seen in the past that the control of our resources has fallen to a large extent into foreign hands. I will not quote all the percentages and so on that the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  quoted. They have already been included in Hansard. I invite honourable members to look at those percentages because I believe that anyone with a feeling for his own country would agree that the situation which has developed over a number of years ought to be reversed. I suppose many of us have played the game of Monopoly. It has been a very popular parlour game for a long while and we know that as assets are obtained by the players in the game how much more difficult it becomes for the other players to stay in the game. Eventually they have to resign. I do not want to see that sort of thing happen with our resources where more and more control and, therefore, more and more power fall into hands over which the people of Australia do not have the control. Let us remember that we live in a democratic society. Governments are elected and governments are broken, but the government is only the vehicle by which people express their point of view. This happens at election time and I hope that that situation never changes. The people of Australia entrust to their governments the way in which this country is to operate. When we talk about government control in a democratic society we are not talking about something remote from ordinary people. We are talking about a government, freely and properly elected by the people, having control of the assets of the coutnry for the benefit of all. That is the way in which the Government envisages this legislation working. That is the way we want to see it operate. 
I point out to the House that the past Government became concerned about the situation that was developing. It took some steps to see that the situation did not accelerate too quickly, but it was either unable or disinclined to take the sort of steps which we on this side of the House believe are necessary. We cannot allow to continue the present situation in which our resources are sold overseas at bargain prices. Only the other day it was pointed out to the House that the potential resources of gas and petroleum which Australia has at its disposal is far in excess of the amount of capital which would need to be invested by foreign companies. I add that in the sort of world in which we are living at the moment - a world where there is an energy crisis - it is plain to people who look at the problem that it is quite possible, in the near future, that Australia will not be able to import the fuel that it needs. We must expand the resources which we have at our disposal. We do not want to see a situation where the car owners of Australia have to lock their vehicles in their garages or leave them in the streets because they are not able to run them. This is a definite possibility unless we make sure, as I believe all good governments should, that the interests of the people that they represent are properly preserved. 
Another matter to which I draw attention is that the investment bonds, which are mentioned in the Bill, become the personal property of the individual investors. It gives them a personal stake in enterprises in Australia. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you, I and every member of the House will be able to invest in those funds in the same way as one invests in stocks and shares. Many people in Australia who would be unable to find the money needed to buy a parcel of shares will be prepared, if we make it easy and the Bill proposes to do so, to put aside some money each week. This, of course, will mean that under direction the liquid capital which at the moment is contributing to inflation can thereby be channelled into resources which are less inflationary and which, in the long run, will contribute to the national good. 
I point out to honourable members that any country is as rich as the goods and services it produces. We must make sure that Australia's goods and services are useful and contribute to the overall good and prosperity of the people who live here. Why are members of the Opposition not supporting this legislation? I am at a loss to understand their position. They have talked for years about private enterprise, the need for the individual to be able to contribute to such enterprise and for the individual to be able to retain control. This proposed organisation is not some bureaucratic octopus. It is a way by which ordinary persons, the men and women down the street, will be able to put their money into something from which they will be able to get a reasonable return and, at the same time, feel that they are making a real contribution to the development of Australia. 
Why are the members of the Liberal and Country Parties against this legislation? For years they have talked about private enterprise. Is their concept of private enterprise the private enterprise of foreign owned companies - of multinational corporations? To me that is not private enterprise, it is foreign capitalism which is a completely different sort of thing. This Government stands, as I said before, for a balance between private and public ownership. It stands for free enterprise, but where is the freedom if we do not have the power to invest? If the companies available to the public to invest in close their doors and will not accept their capital, where is the free enterprise in that? 
Australia commenced its development largely from the money it obtained from gold mining. This provided the initial resources to build cities like Sydney and Melbourne. In Melbourne, for instance, the number of buildings and the tremendous growth that went on in the decades following the discovery of gold, is one of the really remarkable things about our history. In the last decade huge mineral resources have been discovered in Australia. The question facing us is: Are we to use these resources for the good and benefit of the vast majority of Australians or are we, through our neglect - I underline that word because we have the opportunity through these Bills to do something about it - to let a second golden opportunity for Australia slip from our grasp? I suggest that this Parliament will be failing in its obligations to the people of Australia if it allows that sort of situation to occur. 
A country can become economically subservient in much the same way as it can become subservient to military or political pressure. We must make sure that we retain control. In all honesty, I concede that some members of the Opposition have expressed concern from time to time. I think the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  on one occasion said that we do not want to be like a puppy dog who turns over and asks for his tummy to be scratched. This Bill will make sure that we do not act like that puppy dog but that we utilise the resources we have at our disposal. This Bill proposes a national responsibility. We need to take up the challenge of that national responsibility. We need to put the national good before private and private-foreign gain. I ask the House to give very serious consideration to the measure before it. I believe it should do so and I hope that when these Bills go to another place there will be a re-thinking of some of the attitudes expressed this afternoon in this chamber because the Australian people will not thank any Opposition which does not take the opportunity to protect their vital interests. The people of Australia will know whether those members on the other side of the House and in opposite parties in this Parliament are really concerned about whether we keep national control here or not. I ask honourable members in this House to give serious consideration to it. I hope that when these Bills go to another place they will be passed for the greater good and benefit of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as asserted by General Practitioner Society spokesmen, that doctors are subjected to excessive controls over the way in which they treat patients under the Pensioner Medical Service. 
What controls are in fact exercised to ensure that false claims are not made under the Service. 
How many doctors have been called before committees of inquiry because of claims made by them for payments under the Pensioner Medical Service. 
Will he list the names of all doctors who have resigned from the Pensioner Medical Service in the last 6 months. 
If nothing else, this debate is a practical example of how this Parliament can work, with honourable members from both sides of the House representing all parties expressing opposing points of view. Together with the development of the committee system in this place, I think it is something that we ought to look to with a great deal of appreciation. I think it is undoubted that we need a new building. We need room for expansion, and to some extent what has gone on today is pretty much an academic argument. But I draw the attention of the House to the 2 motions that are before it, namely the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the amendment moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Developoment  (Mr Uren).  The amendment asks us to make a prejudgment concerning where we ought to have the new and permanent parliament house. I have my opinion, which is that on balance it ought to be on Capital Hill. But I again draw the attention of the House to the fact that the motion before us asks merely for a meeting with the Senate. I think that this is the right and proper way to approach the question. 
I think one of the ways to overcome the manoeuvring is to make sure that we all sit down together and discuss it on a reasoned and rational basis. What can be done about getting a new and permanent parliament house? We have heard, I think from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  that it will be the year 2000 before we have a new parliament house if we do not make a decision to put a new and permanent parliament house on Camp Hill. I draw the attention of the House to the report which was brought down in March 1970 concerning the new and permanent parliament house and the time schedule which it gives, with no relation to site - I stress this - for the completion of the building, which is 9 years and 6 months; say 10 years. That is fair enough. 
If we accept the situation that it will take 10 years to complete and if we also take into account that a building of this type will cost $100m on present day values, that would mean an expenditure of $ 10m a year. We are already spending a great deal of money on this place. I have been told that it is about $3m per annum but perhaps in that figure there are all sorts of other expenditure. Nevertheless, $10m a year is not too much to expect. I have been associated with the building of municipal offices - a much smaller venture than the one under consideration today. If we had left the construction of those offices until this year instead of commencing 3 years ago the cost would have been at least another $100,000 added to an original cost of less than $500,000, which is a considerable rise. If we accept that the rise in costs will be something like 5 per cent per annum that means a rise of more than 100 per cent over a period of 20 years. 
If we are to make a decision on the construction of a new and permanent parliament house we ought to make the decision now and appropriate the money which would be required. If we can arrive at a bipartisan decision - and I believe that this debate would lead one to believe that such a decision could be achieved - then we will be able to get the support of the public by letting the public know what is going on and by asking for their advice and opinions. It is my experience that when the public are brought into consideration, the public do give their support. 
I do not think we ought to approach this matter with a defeatist attitude. I believe that the proposal to erect the new building in stages need not prevent it from being built on Capital Hill. There are all sorts of adjuncts to a parliament house which can be placed a considerable distance away from the chambers. My view is that it is practicable to have some of the buildings located 200 yards away from the chamber or even half a mile away. It seems to me that we could well put some new buildings on Capital Hill as a first stage. Some parts of the building could be used for certain purposes. 
I would like to refer to the original design put forward by Burley Griffin. If honourable members care to go out into King's Hall and have a look at the display there they will see, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  mentioned, that according to the original design there was to be a building of considerable size on Capital Hill. It was going to be used for all sorts of purposes but not as a meeting place for the Parliament. Burley Griffin originally envisaged 2 separate Houses of Parliament - the Senate and the House of 
Representatives. He felt that 2 buildings on Capital Hill would not contribute to the overall design of the national capital. I think we have come a long way since that time. I believe that we can achieve a satisfactory design for one building which will have some sort of central authority. I think that the original decision taken in 1921 to build a temporary building on the present site has, to a large degree, pre-empted the decision. 
There have been arguments as to whether we should pull this building down or not. Whether we accept that this building has to come down altogether or only part of it is to come down, if a substantial building is placed on Camp Hill then the present building has either to come down or be substantially modified or we accept the alternative that the design for the new building from this aspect will not be as good as might otherwise have been the case. I suggest that we ought to consider this fact because it is central to the whole situation. If we decide to retain the present building we will prejudice the overall design. If we destroy this building I, like the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  believe that we will have committed an act of national vandalism. There are plenty of uses to which this building can be put. I would hate to see this building taken down. This building in its own way is worthy of this nation. It is worthy of our ideals and aspirations. It enshrines our history. This is of particular importance because this country does not have a long history of parliamentary democracy. I believe that this building means something to the people of Australia. I would hate to see it go. 
Again, like the honourable member for Macquarie, I believe that the Capital Hill site would enable us to do much more than we would otherwise be able to do. We have to consider whether we need a parliament house or an office block. I suggest to honourable members that we need a building which is worthy of this nation. I suggest that we should, first of all, decide to meet with the Senate, which is what the motion seeks. Having taken that step we should then decide the question of the merits of the case in conjunction with our colleagues in the other place. I ask the House not to make a decisive and irrevocable decision today but merely to decide that we ought to have a new and permanent parliament house which is worthy of this nation and that we ought to meet with our colleagues in another place to determine this matter. 
I have the honour to present the seventh report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I want to raise as a matter of public interest some questions about the very devious means being employed to attack this Government's health insurance program - a program for which we were given a clear mandate at the last election. The program is of course being openly attacked by those people in the medical profession who believe that health care is a commodity to be sold to the highest bidder rather than a social utility which should be available as a right to everybody in the community. It is also under attack from the czars of the big business health funds who are so desperately clinging to millions of dollars of contributors' money they have managed to lock away as reserves'. 
That a health insurance program which aims to provide coverage against medical and hospital costs on the equitable basis of ability to pay should come under attack from local groups with vested interests in maintaining a system which offers the most benefits to those on the higher incomes is perhaps understandable. The motives and the methods of these groups are questionable enough. But what I want to discuss are the motives and methods of yet another group. I want to do this because I believe the people have a right to know who is trying to manipulate their opinions. The group I am referring to are the multi-national drug companies. Certain members of the Opposition are fond of telling us how badly we need the friendship of multinationals and how badly they are needed to sponsor projects that Australians cannot or will not finance. The Opposition has, of course, expert knowledge about that. Now it seems that, apart from some of the big business health funds and the more militantly conservative members of the medical profession, nobody in Australia wants to finance the project of attacking the universal health insurance program. 
So, apparently by way of demonstration that multi-nationals will finance any venture, the international drug companies have decided to attack our health program. But of course they do not want to be seen doing so. This brings me to an organisation calling itself the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and 2 publications - one called the Health Economics Service Bulletin' and the other the 'Australian Health Education 
Advisory Digest'. The Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association is, of course, a lobbying organisation for the major drug companies operating in Australia, and, as a committee of this Parliament revealed, a very great majority of those are overseas owned. The Health Economics Service Bulletin', without revealing who its real publishers are, has embarked upon a blatantly biased campaign against the health insurance program. The Health Economics Service Bulletin' lists the address of its editor as 45 Macquarie Street, Sydney, that, by coincidence, is also the address of the so-called 'Australian Health Education Advisory Digest', which upon examination turns out to be published by the Health Economics Service - a division of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. Now, just to compound the coincidence, 45 Macquarie Street, Sydney, is the address of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and also, of course, the business address of the Association's Director,  Dr Wylie  Gibbs, a former Liberal member of this House. Again by coincidence the misleading material appearing in the mysteriously published 'Health Economics Service Bulletin' pretty well replicates opinions and assertions which have been published in newspapers over the name of  Dr Gibbs  and which curiously enough also coincide with the Australian Medical Association's propaganda planks. Strange, is it not? 
I have not been able to ascertain whether all the companies which fund the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association subscribe to the views and methods being used in this devious campaign of misrepresentation. But, until any or all of them disown what is being done with the funds they subscribe, they must bear the responsibility for it. On the same subject there is yet another question to which the public's attention should be drawn. The AMA has also been engaging in a deliberate smear campaign against the health plan. Honourable members will know the sort of postures and so on that have been shown around the place. It has already spent, as any observer who knows advertising rates could determine, a very large sum on advertising, a sum running into hundreds of thousands of dollars. But it is pretty clear that all that has been spent is not AMA money. AMA officials have issued anguished appeals to their members because they have not contributed anywhere near the amount sought by the AMA for its fighting fund. I refer honourable members to the news item which appeared in this morning's 'Age'. The AMA officials will not reveal what they have collected or what they have spent. In these circumstances the public is surely entitled to speculate on whether the curiously devious methods being employed to issue propaganda from 45 Macquarie Street, Sydney, have been extended to financing the AMA smear and fear campaign. Journalists, in particular, may be interested to know whether the large AMA 'come up and see us sometime' advertisement appearing in 'The Journalist' has in part been financed by secret drug company money. They may also be wondering about other aspects of that advertisement, such as whether the AMA really does love them for themselves or whether perhaps its Mae West invitation is part of a planned seduction. But that is just by the way. 
The point I want to register with the Australian public is that there is a chain of very curious coincidences linking the international drug companies with the AMA propaganda campaign. And since the AMA has so suddenly offered to open its heart to journalists I wonder whether it would care to give details to the Australian public of the amount and the source of the money it is spending on its propaganda campaign. In addition it should also be noted that the General Practitioners Society is known to be pressuring drug companies to support their campaign or have their drugs boycotted by doctors. 
This is typical of the General Practitioners Society. In its August journal it outlined an ingenious scheme to compile a register of approved consultants to whom Society members should give preference when referring their patients. To be included on this list, consultants would have to 'donate' an annual fee of $20. Of this amount $10 would be classified as a subscription fee to the Society's journal - a worthless collection of League of Rights type propaganda and personal vilification of  Mr Hayden,  members of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, and anyone else who dares to disagree with the Society's warped view of the world. The balance is to be placed in a fund known as the Consultants Fighting Fund' to be used appropriately and at the discretion of the G.P.'s Society. 
It is a racket. This will obviously be spent to further the right wing predilections of the Society. In conclusion, I would like to stress the underhand tactics being used by opponents of the Australian Government's health insurance program. The Government does not mind legitimate criticism and analysis. What we do mind is the deliberate misrepresentations, character assasinations, the machinations of big business and the overseas influence being brought to bear on the health debate, which is after all a debate on the best possible health insurance system for Australia, not on what is best for big business, or people who only profit from peoples' ill health. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to the way in which overseas drug companies in fact have control of the drug companies in Australia. One-third of the pharmaceutical manufacturing companies in Australia are Australian owned. But 93 per cent of the value market for pharmaceuticals went to overseas controlled firms. Twenty manufacturers provided 74 per cent of the market in 1969-70 and of these only one was an Australian company which supplied 3 per cent. Medical services and the supply of valuable drugs are too important a subject for us not to consider them in this place. I would ask honourable members to consider very carefully all the matters that I have raised. 
I was going to rise before but I knew .that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  wanted to speak on this Bill and so I held my place. But I cannot let the opportunity go by without rejecting what the honourable member for Griffith had to say about the Bill. 
I have been in the Parliament and I have been listening to the debate. I know what has been going on. I am disappointed at the attitude of members of the Opposition, because as far as I can see they do not have the real interests of the consumers in Australia at heart. They are representing a sectional group of people in this country. If there were any validity in their arguments, surely they would want to see legislation come before this Parliament which would protect the people of Australia - not only the consumers, of course, but also the people who manufacture goods. A few years ago it was my privilege to have dinner with a senior executive of S. S. Kresge and Co. of America who was in Australia for negotiations about operating K Marts in Australia in cooperation with G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd. He told me that he agreed with the trade practices legislation in the United States. He said that it was good for competition and that it protected individuals in that country against unfair competition. He informed me that it did not matter whether one bought one unit or a million; the price to the producer was the same. As he is a very big business man and somebody representing big business in his country, he held that this was in the interests, not only of the consumer but also of business as a whole. I hope that the Committee considers carefully the clauses of the Bill, because I believe that they are a very important and integral part of the Bill. I believe that the carrying and putting into operation of this Bill will be of benefit not only to the consumer and the manufacturer but also to the country as a whole. 
It is important in debates such as this that at least we attempt to answer some of the arguments that are put up by honourable members on the other side of the House. I have pleasure on this occasion in doing my best to demolish all the arguments of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who, I think, has not really fully substantiated his case. I do not believe that if this Bill is carried, and the question is put to the people at a referendum and agreed to by them, it will result in the Constitution's being undermined. Rather, the Constitution will be strengthened, for capricious government, which can be brought about by a Senate's rejecting legislation that has been passed by an elected House of Representatives, can have the effect of lowering the respect in which the public holds the Parliament and the legislative process. 
The honourable member for Moreton said that if the provisions of this Bill are understood the people will reject the question when it is put to them at a referendum. I hold the contrary view. Section 128 of the Constitution, which was quoted by the honourable member for Moreton, lays down the ways in which the Constitution of this country can be changed. I see nothing in that section that would lead me to believe that the process we are now undertaking in putting this Bill before the House, and subsequently putting a question to the people at referendum, is at variance with the spirit of that section. Why not let the people decide? The honourable member for Moreton says that the matter ought to be discussed in this Parliament. We are discussing it here and it will be discussed in another place. I have no doubt that it will be rejected in the Senate. Then, according to the provisions of section 128, the Bill will come back to us, and if we pass it again, the Governor-General may decide to put it to the people. Of course, the difference in practice, as the honourable member for Moreton well knows, is that generally speaking the Governor-General accepts the advice of a government. He is not bound to do so, but usually he would, whereas he would not accept the advice of an Opposition. Therefore, in theory, although the Senate can twice refuse to pass a Bill for a referendum, it does not occur that way. 
The honourable member for Moreton indicated also that he was in' favour of a bicameral legislature. I must admit that there are occasions when a bicarmeral legislature can be an advantage, but I believe also that there are other and better ways of going about the legislative process, and I would suggest that one way in which legislation could be much better considered would be by this House of Representatives setting up a system of standing committees along the lines of those established by the House of Commons in Britain. I feel that if the Senate has had any advantage to this Parliament and to the country in the past few years, it has been in its experiments and innovations with the committee system. I believe that that practice ought to be followed by this House regardless of whether the Senate ultimately is dissolved as a separate House. 
Of course, in Queensland, the home State of the honourable member for Moreton, there is a unicameral House. I think it is the only State of the Commonwealth where such a system applies. No matter how many Government supporters might disagree with some of the actions taken by the Queensland Government, I think no one would seriously suggest that in Queensland compared with the other States of the Commonwealth, the ordinary processes of government have been seriously affected. I do not know whether the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is in favour of a presidential system. I do not think he indicated in his speech that he was. However, apart from any unicameral House of Parliament in Australia, our sister country of New Zealand has only one House, and I do not hear people suggesting that in that country the ordinary processes of law, the ordinary legislative processes, are being overrun in any way. 
One of the points made in the debate by both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Moreton related to the question whether we should have a double dissolution to get over the problem of a Senate's objecting to legislation and rejecting it. Of course, this would be only a transitory settlement of the problem, for the same difficulty could arise again and again, as we have heard in regard to what happened in 1929, 1951, 1963, and so on. So, this problem will arise again and again, one would imagine, unless we resolve it by changing the Constitution. To say that this will get over all the problems is not really a valid answer to the arguments that have been put up for bringing the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate into conjunction. As far as section 57 of the Constitution is concerned, of course the other provisions regarding a double dissolution will apply. Therefore, it will still be possible to have a double dissolution regardless of whether the question proposed to be put at the referendum that will be conducted if this Bill is passed is carried and an alteration made to the Constitution. 
The Leader of the Opposition made great play on going to a double dissolution. I ask honourable members to recall what happened between 1963 and 1972. In that period the Senate and the House of Representatives' elections were not in conjunction and yet at no time did the government of the day decide to go to the people to bring them into line so that money would be saved. The result was that in that period elections cost the Australian people say another $7m because the Senate and House of Representatives elections were not held in conjunction. That situation was allowed to continue. Why did not the government of the day last year - say around April or May - have a double dissolution? If it had decided to have one, we know what would have happened. I venture to suggest that the majority of the present Government would not have been nine, but closer to ninetynine. Of course the Government did not have to go to the people at that time and it chose not to do so. In fact, the election was held as late as possible, but we all know that it did not save the former Government. 
I do not see how anyone can agree with the proposition that by carrying this Bill and by subsequently putting a question to the people at a referendum we would be depriving the Senate of its power. The Senate has the power at any time to reject legislation, provided that the number of senators who are in favour of such rejection vote that way. That situation will continue. What happens in other countries that have bicameral systems of government? What about the United States of America? Not only does it have simultaneous elections, but also elections are held on exactly the same date, the first Tuesday in November, every 2 years, and a presidential election is held on the same day every 4 years. Obviously tha 
United States believes in simultaneous elections. Its elections could not be any more simultaneous. 
Yes. I believe that there has been an irrelevant injection into the debate by the mention of this point raised by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Moreton. I should like to refer now to the question of the cost of elections because this is one of the very cogent arguments advanced in favour of holding simultaneous elections. The Minister for Services and Property mentioned that the conjoint elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives in 1961 cost $866,000. The election for the House of Representatives which followed cost $942,000. The following election for the Senate cost $1,042,000. The election for the House of Representatives in 1966 cost more than $lm, and the cost for the Senate election in 1967 crept up to nearly $1,400,000. 
There has been a continuing rise in the cost of elections. So at the present time the cost of holding an election for either House of the Parliament is getting very close to $2m. That is a lot of money, and I think that we ought to give some consideration to this matter. It may be said that $2m is not very much in a total Budget of some $ 1,200m, but $2m is a lot of money in anybody's language. If we can save more than $20m over a period of 10 years, I think that this House ought to give serious consideration to this matter. These things are not new. The subject matter of this Bill was dealt with in the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, and I think that I ought to read into the record the names of the personnel who comprised that Committee. It was chaired by  Senator Neil  O'sullivan who, I think, was the Leader of the Government in the Senate either at that time or later. 
Yes, he was a member of the Liberal Party. The other members of the Committee were  Senator Kennelly  and  Senator McKenna,  both Labor Party senators;  Senator Wright,  a Liberal;  Mr Calwell,  a former Labor member of this House;  Sir Alexander  Downer, as he now is, who was a Liberal Party member of this House;  Mr Drummond,  who was a Country Party member of this House;  Mr Hamilton,  who was a Country Party member of this House;  Mr P.  E. Joske, as he then was, who was a Liberal Party member of this House;  Mr Pollard  and  Mr Ward,  who were both Labor members of this House; and, at the bottom of the list because I imagine that at that time he had junior status, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As has been pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition, this Committee, with the exception of  Senator Wright  who objected to some of the findings of the Committee, brought in a unanimous report. I think it is important that I should read some of the things which the Committee said and which bear on the question presently before the House. Paragraph 226 of the report  states: 
The Committee has recommended (19S8 Report, paragraph 49) that the Constitution be altered to omit the provision now made for senators to be chosen for terms of six years and to provide instead that senators should hold their places until the expiry or dissolution of the second House of Representatives after their election, unless the Senate should be earlier dissolved under the provisions of section 57 of the Constitution. 
The Committee upheld the idea of having bicameral legislatures. It stated: 
The Committee is of opinion 'that the existing structure of the Federal Parliament requires the Senate to retain the distinguishing characteristic of continuous existence so commonly found in countries where upper houses still exist. The Committee also believes that senators should have longer terms than members of the House of Representatives in the system of two chamber government. Accordingly, it acknowledges the considerations which were to the fore during the Convention Debates in framing the provisions dealing with the terms of senators. 
I think this covers some of the points made by the honourable member for Moreton. The next paragraph is interesting because it states: 
Nevertheless, as long as the principle of continuity is maintained and senators can be assured of a term of service extending over the entire terms of two successive Parliaments, there is, in the opinion of the Committee, no compelling reason why senators should have fixed terms of six years. 
I believe that it could well be to the advantage of honourable members who are not able to get a copy of this report if certain paragraphs of the report were incorporated in Hansard. I ask leave of the House to incorporate is Hansard the following sections: 'Disadvantages of the Allotment of Fixed Terms for Senators', Benefits of Simultaneous Elections', and Recommendation and Draft Constitutional Alterations'. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral by drawing the Minister's attention to an incident which took place outside the Sunshine Court in Victoria on 28 February this year when members of the Nazi Party appeared wearing swastikas, and a fight broke out following which a number of people was arrested. In view of the British Act of Parliament of 1936 which bans the wearing of uniforms in connection with political objects, and the statement of the Premier of Victoria earlier this year that consideration had to be given to legislation banning members of the 
Nazi Party from wearing uniforms and swastika insignia in public, I ask: Does the Minister agree that the wearing of Nazi uniforms and swastika insignia is both disturbing and provocative to a large number of Australians? Will the Australian Government move to implement the United Nations resolution against Nazism? Will discussions be held with the various States with a view to their passing complementary legislation? In view of the provocation involved at Sunshine, will the Attorney-General give consideration to requesting an amnesty for those persons arrested and convicted following the incident? 
When one looks at so many Bills which do so many things, one hardly knows where to start. Perhaps I ought to start by repeating what I said in the first speech that I made in this place. I said: 
I believe that we need to start thinking of education not only as a service- for the young but as a service' to the whole community, to be used as and when necessary - like health services. This will need a completely new emphasis on the role of adult education and retraining programs. 
These Bills go part of the way towards assisting tertiary education in various aspects, not only in relation to universities but also in relation to colleges of advanced education and preschool and ordinary teachers colleges. I believe that the additional funding which will be made available through these Bills will be of tremendous importance and great significance for the future of education in Australia. 
The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  mentioned children with specific learning difficulties. This is something on which we both agree and I am sure on which most honourable members in this place agree. As a teacher, I have taught children who, although appearing to be and in fact being very intelligent and able to cope in many ways, have had a blind spot in their ability to grasp certain information - perhaps in reading. I can remember one outstanding case where the brightest boy in the school was unable to read above grade 1 level. At that time I had not heard the word 'dyslexia' but I am pretty sure in my mind, looking back on it, that that child had dyslexia. If I had been specially trained and if the facilities had been available to give that child a better education by providing the specialist service that was available, he and, I believe, the community would have been much better off. We hope that this Bill will provide additional specialist teachers in particular fields. 
The honourable member for Gwydir also mentioned various ways of looking at fee abolition. One of the Bills proposes to abolish fees for tertiary education completely. I think we would all agree that there are difficulties in doing this, with sufficient regard being paid to the ability of children to reach this level in the first place. What this Government is attempting to do is to raise the level of education over all. I agree entirely with the honourable member for Gwydir that, unless a child has sufficient motivation and has been given sufficient opportunity in his early schooling to become motivated and to be able to build upon that groundwork, he will have great difficulty in establishing himself and gaining benefit from tertiary education although it may be completely free. This is one of the things we must look at. 
I think it was the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  who referred to the establishment of a fourth university in Victoria. Certainly the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  mentioned it before. Just to put the record straight I would like to state the situation concerning the fourth university in Victoria. The promise was made by the Victorian Government at the election held in 1970 to move for the establishment of a fourth university in Victoria. A committee was set up. It reported in about October 1972. The Victorian Minister for Education was then asked for a detailed submission by the Australian Universities Commission and by the then Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In December, on the election of the Labor Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as Minister for Education in the First Whitlam Ministry set up an inquiry into university needs in Melbourne and the surrounding areas. A further request for details of the Victoria proposal was ignored. Then in February the Victorian Premier announced the 3-campus proposal, which was mentioned previously. In May the Australian Universities Commission report was tabled. There was still no submission in detail from the Victorian Government. In May the Victorian Minister attacked the Commonwealth for ignoring his proposals. In July the Victorian Minister submitted proposals that were contrary to the wishes of the local education authorities. Obviously if we are going to solve the problems of where to put the fourth university in Victoria we will have to sit down and really work out where we are going. Until now one would have imagined that the Victorian Government was not quite sure where it was heading in this matter. As at least 2 honourable members on the other side of the House wish to enter into this debate, I shall be brief. I shall confine my remarks to one or two matters. 
Firstly, the Bills before the House provide additional funds for kindergarten training institutions - kindergarten teachers' colleges. For a long while kindergarten teachers' colleges were independent not only in their administration but also in the provision of their finance. This meant, because of the fees that had to be charged, that only girls who belonged to relatively wealthy families could afford to attend these institutions. This was not a good state of affairs, not only because it cut down the number of potential students but also because it limited the variety of people offering themselves for training as kindergarten teachers. During recent years, a great number of kindergarten teachers have entered kindergarten teachers' colleges for training additional to, perhaps, their training as primary teachers and this has, of course, built up the numbers. 
We know that pre-school education will go through a great phase of expansion. In Victoria, which is probably the best equipped State so far as pre-school education is concerned, there is still a great need for improvement. In my own area in the shire of Diamond Valley, which is part of the electorate of Diamond Valley, I think that the shire council during the years has provided the best standard of pre-school education available anywhere in the Commonwealth. It is something of which I am very proud. I am proud also to have been associated with it. But there are still children, even in that municipality, who do not receive the one year of pre-school education which most people who understand the work in this field believe is necessary. So, the provision of additional funds for training teachers in this work is of great significance. 
Finally, I hope that the additional funds which will be released - and despite any arguments from my friends on the other side of the House, if they examine the figures they will find that additional funds are being made available which will allow other State funds to be released - will be used in the forthcoming year to make sure that the promise which was made, and partially backed up, to abolish composite fees in secondary schooL and even in primary schools will result in those schools having enough money to be able to do away with levying parents for the basic needs of those schools. I make a plea on behalf of those parents who will find, if this is not done, that they will be asked yet again to provide additional funds to help run the schools. I trust that the additional money which is being released through the funds provided by these Bills will be spent partially in this area. 
A number of the actions which are being taken in relation to education are real landmarks in education. I acknowledge that the former Government did take initiatives on the Cohen report and similar reports. I am pleased that so far as something like the Cohen report is concerned, we are not only implementing its recommendations but also are going that extra mile. When the provisions of these Bills are put into operation and the money is provided not only schoolchildren but also the whole community in Australia can look forward to a better education system. I am pleased that the Opposition is supporting these Bills. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the situation which has developed at the Templestowe private hospital in my electorate where notice of termination of employment has been given to the nursing and other staff? What is the position regarding the patients? Is the Minister in a position to assist? . 
The passing of the Opposition's amendment - in other words, allowing the amount of money in the present Act to flow on - would have the very clear effect of making sure that this program cannot be properly implemented. We have heard a lot of things said in this House recently about the Government's expenditure - what it is spending on this, what it is spending on that, that the Government ought to cut down its expenditure, and so on. It is quite clear from the statements that were made before the election and those made after the election that the Government is carrying out the wishes of the majority of Australians in presenting this Bill. If it is not passed, the Government will not be able to implement the sorts of things mentioned in the Bill. 
The Government will not be able to implement properly the general building grants and the supplementary science laboratory building grants mentioned in clauses 4 to 10. It will not be able to implement properly the grants for recurrent expenditure mentioned in clauses 11 to 16. It will not be able to implement properly the library grants mentioned in clauses 17 to 25 or the grants for disadvantaged schools, the grants in respect of special schools for handicapped children, the grants in respect of teacher development or those applying to innovations which are referred to as special projects. 
I hear honourable members opposite interjecting and saying that the Government will be able to do so. The fact is that a considerable amount of money, running into tens of millions of dollars, would need to be appropriated in order to carry out the intent of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I would like to support what the Acting Minister for Education, the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  said a little while ago. To my mind the situation is quite clear, and none of the words in the letter incorporated by the honourable member for Wannon alter my opinion in any way. As far as I am concerned, it was quite clear in that letter and in the statements that have been made - it has always been quite clear - that if a Labor government were elected it would make the allocations on the basis of need. 
The Government has made additional grants. A considerable amount of extra money has been made available to non-government schools in addition to the enormous amount of money made available to government schools. The Government has done what the people of Australia wish it to do. It is carrying out the policy put by the present Prime Minister and also by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  when he was the Opposition's spokesman for education and in the time since he has been Minister for Education. This amendment is just a ploy on the part of the Opposition to make this Bill unworkable in the terms and needs as the Government sees them. As a private member of the Government Party, I have no hesitation in backing up what the Acting Minister has said. I am sure that he receives the absolute support of honourable members on this side, because what is contained in this Bill is absolutely fundamental to the policies that the Australian Labor Party put to the people. I believe that the Government has a mandate and it will carry that mandate through. 
Question put - 
That the clause be agreed to. 
The words that fall from the lips of the Opposition spokesmen fall very heavily indeed, because honourable members opposite do not have a feather to fly with. The situation is that the Bill which the Government put before the people is a Rolls Royce in education legislation, but the Opposition wants to take away the wheels. It wants to stop it working. One would wonder who the Opposition spokesman on education was. This morning the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in this House tried to defend the despicable action which has been taken by the Opposition.  Senator Rae  said that in his belief it will cost $3m more to allow the sections in the old Act to flow on. The Leader of the Opposition here said $5m and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said $15m. 'Whom are we to believe when the Opposition cannot make up its own mind where it is going on this subject? 
The fact of the matter is that the failure to carry in the Senate the clause relating to the repeal of the old legislation would involve an expenditure of $114m. I refer honourable members to section. 13 in the old Act, which very clearly points out that there is a onefifth, that is 20 per cent, tie-up between the amounts granted to government schools and those granted to non-government schools. I want to point out to the members of this House and to the people of Australia that under the old Act the former Government would have spent $225m on education in this coming year. We propose to spend nearly $700m, but the Opposition is not satisfied with that. The failure to accept the repeal legislation will mean that an additional $114m will be spent. Honourable members opposite are the people who say that Government expenditure ought to be cut, that this Government is spending too much and it is having an effect on inflation. I say to honourable members opposite that if that is the way they think then their logic is not very good at all and, of course, their figures are not very good. 
I pointed out in a debate on social services that the Leader of the Opposition could not even calculate the percentage increase in social service payments. He added 11.4 because of a simple arithmetical error when in fact it was 13.95. Of course the Opposition is doing the same thing this morning. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  backed up by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  claims that 53 per cent of children will be worse off. I will argue in a moment about the way in which those figures were arrived at. Let me look at this on the basis of the figures of the honourable member for Gwydir. He claims that 53 per cent of secondary school pupils in private schools will be worse off. The reality of the situation is that only 8 per cent of all secondary school pupils go to private schools. Therefore on his own figures - 53 per cent is nearly half - only 4 per cent of all secondary school pupils will be worse off. In fact 96 per cent of the children attending secondary schools in Australia will be better off - and much better off. That is the truth of the argument of the honourable member for Gwydir. 
Let me look at the table setting out categories A to H. Last year the amounts payable were $62 and $104. This year in category C - bearing in mind that we go down to category H - the amount payable for a primary school pupil will be $70. This business about abolishing per capita grants is so much nonsense. We have not abolished per capita grants at all. What we have done is to reallocate funds, as we said we would both in statements made in this place and in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  An amount of $70 will be payable for a primary school pupil and an amount of $100 for a secondary school pupil in category C. The amount payable for secondary school pupils is $4 less than it was previously and the amount for primary school pupils is $8 more. It is a fairly good cut-off point. By looking at the number of schools in category C we would really get a true picture. Let us consider the number of pupils in the categories, after appeals. Surely this is what we ought to be looking at in categories A to C. I have even included category A because as I have pointed out primary school pupils are better off and the secondary school pupils are only $4 worse off. Twenty-nine per cent of the children fall into categories A to C and 71 per cent of all children, primary and secondary, fall into the other categories where they clearly get more. 
Members of the Opposition have always defended the status quo in education. They talk about security. What security is there for a child in a school like North Fitzroy, Brunswick or Surry Hills? What security is there for a child growing up in a society where he is illequipped to cope with the sort of things that he will have to cope with? What sort of feeling have those who sat on this side of the House for 23 years had for those children? Quite clearly they had very little feeling for those children at all. They allowed them to stagnate in shocking schools. I believe it is worth reading again what the Prime Minister said in his policy speech. He said: 
The Labor Party is determined that every child who embarks on secondary education in 1973 shall, irrespective of school or location, have as good an opportunity as any other child of completing his secondary education. . . . 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is pleasing to see that members of the Opposition Parties are supporting the Bills which are before the House, even if they do so with some reservations. I hope that their fears or apprehensions will be overcome when they see the arrangements worked out regarding the finance and the operation of the Corporation as mentioned in the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill. Perhaps I should make reference to land tenure and just price. It seems to me quite obvious that if a government, or for that matter any other community organisation, produces works in an area which increases the value of the land which has no relationship whatsoever to the effort which the original owner of the land has put in, the original owner of the land is entitled to compensation only on the value of that land and the money that it would have brought if the land had been sold under normal circumstances. 
I draw attention to problems which have arisen in the United States of America where buildings and land have been acquired for the national estate or its equivalent. In fact, in times past, there has been quite a jockeying for position to get one's land declared in this category so that massive compensation can be paid. It is quite obvious if we intend developing land in this way that we cannot afford to pay the developed value of the land. I think we ought to pay a just price, but a just price in relation to the use to which the land would otherwise be put. We cannot have the public paying an enormous price for the land because the whole program will break down and we will not be able to do the things we need to do. 
There are 4 Bills. The Albury-Wodonga Development Bill sets out the functions and powers of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. This organisation brings into cooperation the States of New South Wales and Victoria and the Australian Government. The Corporation is to be governed by a Ministerial council comprising the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development, the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation and the Australian Minister for Urban and Regional Development. In conjunction with the ministerial council 3 corporations are to be set up. The Development Corporation will be composed of 3 Ministers, of which the Australian Minister for Urban and Regional Development is the  chairman.  The Victorian corporation will have as its  chairman  the Victorian Minister and the New South Wales corporation will have as its  chairman  the New South Wales Minister. The corporations will carry out the various functions which are outlined in the Bill. 
Perhaps there is one point of detail which I might mention - community participation. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  mentioned this. I agree with him that this is very important indeed. The Consultative Council of Public Participation has a membership of representatives of community interests such as local government advisers, cultural groups, trade unions, women's groups and new interests. Its functions are to advise the Development Corporation on matters which it raises and those referred to it by the Development Corporation. I see this as a very important function of the whole organisation. Many times we have heard talk about the centralism of power in Canberra. One much more important thing to my mind is the centralisation of power in the major capital cities. Local governments do not have any real say at all. Most of their powers are delegated powers under the various local government Acts. For instance, under the present Act in Victoria, if a local government organisation wanted to develop land or build houses it would not be able to do so without special permission. If a local government organisation wanted to run buses, because neither the State government organisation nor private enterprise was prepared to do so, it would not be able to because it does not have the power to do so. The local government organisation would have extreme difficulty in setting up a factory to produce concrete pipes or something similar, although that sort of thing has been done in the past with special permission. 
I think it is important to note that if wc are to have true decentralisation we have to allow local people and local organisations to have a say. This is one of the very important aspects of the Bill which we ought to take into account. We, as the Australian Government, are approaching this project and others in the regional growth centres with a view to improving the quality of life of Australians. I live in an outer suburban area, as do many of the new members who were elected to this Parliament after the 1972 election. We represent the aspirations of the people who live in those areas. We represent not only their hopes but also their fears that they in turn will become swamped by increasing urbanisation of their area. Many of these areas are in the belt stretching from the north-east of Melbourne around to the east of Melbourne and include many scenic areas. If we do not siphon off the population increase which inevitably will occur in Sydney and Melbourne over the next 30 years, these particularly beautiful areas and places of recreation for both the major cities of Melbourne and Sydney and perhaps others in time will be lost to the public. I do not want to see that happen; neither do the people who live in those areas. 
Another aspect which I think I should mention is that working people are spending more and more of their time in travelling across major urban areas. What is the good of reducing the working week when a very great proportion of the potential increased recreation time is to be spent in travelling. I would like to see, as I have mentioned before in speeches on related subjects, a completely new look at the way in which cities are designed. 
One of the very big problems in urban life arises from the motor car, which has made life in cities very difficult. Yet without motor cars it would be most difficult to move around in outer suburban areas. We have just not bothered to plan our transport properly. I should like to see much more thought given in the future to linear cities or similar types of development to ensure that people can use public transport effectively and easily, to ensure that they only need to walk a short distance from their home to obtain public transport. That is not an impossible dream. It is something than can be achieved with proper planning. When one flies over Australia one observes the huge open spaces and realises that the scope for development of our continent is tremendous. We ought to take up the challenge. 1 should like to quote the following statement that was made about 30 years ago and is repeated in the report to the Australian Government by the Cities Commission: 
The unplanned development of towns has led to unplanned transport and to an excessive amount of travelling between different parts of large towns. This in turn had involved high cost of transport to the community as a whole, as well as to the individual who pays this cost not only in money but in time and fatigue . . . The rising price of land . . . has driven people to the outer areas where land is cheap, but the location had forced them to pay high fares, often leaving them worse off than before. The decentralisation of industry and the possibility of establishing satellite towns will need to be considered. 
Unfortunately it has taken 30 years to get to this stage. I am sure that all those who have thought about town planning would welcome this latest move with open arms as it will provide a real opportunity for Australians to have an improvement in their quality of life, so that we do not have to suffer the problems of pollution, open drains and similar inconveniences that exist in the areas around Melbourne that I spoke of before. 
Finally, something must be done about land speculation. This is one way of approaching the problem. I do not buy the argument of some honourable members opposite who assert that we must have freehold land tenure. This system does not really work. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has pointed out already that this is really a complete myth and unless it is for rather base political motives I am at a loss to understand why some Opposition members are endeavouring to frighten the Australian public on this matter. A variant of it has worked very successfully in Canberra and I would like to see the principle extended generally. This would have undoubtedly a great effect on the value of land in Australia. Young people would be able to buy land much cheaper than they can now. This and the associated Bills are very important. I am very pleased to see that the measure has the support of the House and I hope that it will receive just as much support in the other place. 
I present the eighth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the Minister for Social Security had the opportunity of noting various medical and hospital benefit claim forms, for instance of the Hospital Benefits Association and the Grand United Order of Oddfellows, which require a claimant to authorise the hospital and medical authorities to supply any necessary information to the respective funds? I have some of these claim forms in my hand. Is the Minister concerned that compulsory authorisation is extracted from fund benefit applicants with the implied threat that no benefits will be paid unless this carte-blanche authorisation is given? Can he take steps to ensure that the privacy of contributors is maintained? 
It is a privilege to speak in this debate, which I believe is one of the great debates of the current session of Parliament. I am convinced that the people of Australia need the standard of health services that only this legislation can provide. I was greatly surprised earlier this afternoon at the remarks of thehonourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I thought that he would have been prepared to argue the case on its merits. However, he spent a great deal of time name calling. He referred to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  as a hatchet man and then went on - quite incorrectly - to use phrases such as socialised medicine, nationalising doctors, nationalised medicine and the socialist Minister in Canberra. The honourable member for Hotham's facade of reasonableness was stripped away once and for all. 
We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in which he made reference to the debate at the National Press Club luncheon between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I watched the debate on television and, allowing for my natural bias in this matter, I would say that the Prime Minister won hands down. But in any case, in reality what the Prime Minister said was that if the people decided next Saturday to give the Australian Government power to legislate with regard to incomes this Government would implement the decision of the Medical Fees Tribunal. It is well known to the people of Australia that many people who earn money by way of salary or wage have their incomes regulated. I would think that one of the very good arguments that would persuade the people of Australia to vote 'Yes, Yes' on Saturday would be the knowledge that, if we had this sort of control, there would be regulation of doctors fees, medical fees generally, legal fees and other things. I believe that in the sort of society to which honourable members on both sides of the House purport to want to belong, this is the sort of thing we all wish to see happen. 
What are the results of the present health scheme which has been so lauded by speakers from the other side of the House? I wish to refer to one example that came to my attention recently in my electorate of Diamond Valley. I shall quote from a letter which I shall be happy to show to any honourable member. The letter states: 
Dear  Mr McKenzie, 
I enclose a copy of a letter, sent recently to The Age but not printed, which I feel may be of interest to you as a piece of contrete evidence of the state of health services in your electorate. 
The old lady who signed the letter - whichI drafted - Is due to come out of hospital to-day, after eight weeks. We sent a covering note to The Age requesting that the name of her home suburb should not appear as this would enable readers to identify the clinic concerned and perhaps render her liable to legal action. However, she stated that she would be prepared to verify, all her information if any authority wanted to investigate the case, and this promise still stands. Possibly The Age preferred to avoid printing such a specific allegation. 
The letter which was enclosed states: 
I feel I ought to bring to public attention the following performance of 'the best health service in the world'. 
I am a pensioner in my sixties, a widow. A sore on my foot recently erupted, leaving me in pain and unable to move. A friend rang up the local clinic, and was told by the receptionist (who first ascertained that I was a pensioner) that a doctor would attend me by a certain hour. When the hour came and no doctor had appeared, my friend rang the clinic again to be told that my ailment was not serious enough to warrant a home visit, and that I should take a Disprin and rest my foot. My friend's protests were unavailing, and as my condition was obviously serious  another clinic, further away from where I live, was contacted. A doctor came (without inquiring if I was a pensioner), and diagnosed gangrene. 
I am now in hospital recovering from the amputation of a toe.  I  would like to thank the doctor who travelled some distance to see me and certainly saved me from the loss of a limb, or worse. The behaviour of the local clinic speaks for itself. 
I am pleased to say that very few members of the medical profession would regard pensioners in that way. I do not wish to attack members of the medical profession by reading out that letter but I think it does indicate that all is not well with the present health scheme. 
The Opposition has revealed 2 main things in its attempt to pretend that it has a policy on health insurance. It has demonstrated that it is so bankrupt of ideas that its only recourse is to accept the role of mouthpiece for the Australian Medical Association, the General Practitioners Society and the big business private health funds. Moreover it has shown that the only ideas that appeal to it in the provision of health care stem from what can best be described as an 'animal farm* philosophy - in other words, the concept that while we pretend that everybody is equal, we make sure that some are more equal than others. Let it be noted that this same philosophy as expressed by George Orwell in 'Animal Farm' is there for all to observe behind the Opposition's machinations on education, no matter how desperately its spokesmen squeal out their chorus of 'double-think' in an attempt to camouflage their philosophy. 
We hear much from the Opposition about voluntary health insurance. Of course, in reality, it is not voluntary at all. At the moment if anybody wants the benefit paid by the Government he must join a health fund. What is voluntary about that? In their attempts to conceal the social inequity of their outmoded and so-called voluntary system of health insurance, the Opposition spokesmen have claimed that improvements in the provision of subsidised health benefits and the inclusion of pensioners within the insurance system will put everything to rights. What a pious hope. What a coincidence that these simplistic sounding remedies are exactly the same as have been prescribed by the AMA and the managers of the big health funds in their efforts to preserve a system which is geared so much in their favour and so much against the ordinary citizen. 
In this context it is worth recalling the words of the AMA statement on the Govern ment's White Paper. The AMA commended the Opposition parties for their opposition to the Government's program and then, with typical arrogance, delivered its instructions. The Australian Medical Association', it said, believes that this opposition should continue to be expressed when legislation is introduced'. Meekly, and in due course, we now have the Opposition spokesmen mouthing the AMA catalogue of self-interest. What a truly demeaning position for an Opposition to find itself in - to be merely the echo of a reactionary group which has opposed any advance in social equity within the health insurance system. This comes from those people who for years claimed that members on this side of the House were influenced by outside bodies. How shallow those assertions sound now. The AMA, in attempting to camouflage its elitist instincts, has circulated in its so-called appraisal of the health insurance program an argument more remarkable for its dialectic gymnastics than for any truth or relevance. 
I am pleased to say that very many doctors reject the specious arguments of their professional association and recognise that the scheme proposed by the Government will benefit patients, doctors and the Australian community. The AMA claims that the rich man and the poor man are equal under the present health insurance scheme. 
 Of course it is not right. It just so happens that the rich man is left with more money after paying for his essential outgoings. The AMA has, by the way, circulated this remarkable example of verbal sophistry and sourced it to an official of the Commonwealth Bank Officers' Association, despite the fact that that Association has completely disowned the statement. No amount of word play can hide the fact that under the present health insurance scheme the rich man, because of the value of his taxation deductions, pays comparatively less for his health insurance coverage than does the poor man. The facts are that the price of so-called voluntary health insurance is different to different people and that fat cats in all ranks of life get more for their money than thin ones. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, we can hear honourable members opposite screaming out their interruptions because they cannot take the facts. The Opposition apparently sees that this is politically embarrassing and there*""* accepts the AMA idea that the way to conceal the injustice of the whole system is to create a whole class of charity patients by subsidising low income people and pensioners into the present health insurance scheme. We heard the honourable member for Hotham talk about the poor and the indigent. This kind of social classification belongs to the 18th century. The Opposition should be ashamed to present such ideas in this day and age. 
Yes. It is more like the 12th century. 
Well, evil anyway. Australia does not want a health insurance system which divides people into classes. We are going to see to it that everyone is covered automatically and that everybody contributes according to his or her ability. As I mentioned before, the Opposition spokesmen pretend that their scheme is voluntary and find abhorrent the idea of everybody in the community contributing towards an equitable and efficient health insurance program. Let us be quite clear that the present scheme is not voluntary. Health insurance coverage for ordinary Australians is not a matter of choice; it is an economic necessity and, as a social utility, it should be financed in just the same way as is education or defence. We do not hear members of the Opposition claiming that people should be free to pay or not to pay that part of their taxes which supports the armed Services or education institutions although of course we know how they like to juggle the education allocations. Our proposal is that, through extra taxation and revenue payments equal to the amounts at present flowing through the inefficient private health insurance system, we will run a program which offers everybody access to high standard medical and hospital treatment. 
If the Opposition wants to apply the philosophy which they claim lies behind their voluntary* health insurance scheme then they will also have to allow people a choice about whether they pay any taxes at all. By claiming that a person should be free to contribute or not to contribute to the health care costs of the community, the Opposition is once again revealing its real feelings about health. It is quite plain that it simply does not believe health care services are a right which should be enjoyed by everybody and that instead it wants to ensure that health services should be marketed as a commodity and be available according to the financial resources of each person and family. The Government rejects that, I reject it, and most of the people in this country reject it. In short the Opposition continues to see health services as a privilege to be bought and sold. 
This is what is behind its opposition, and that of the AMA, to the concept that provision should exist in any health insurance program for medical services to be free at the point of delivery. This prospect causes the Opposition, again mouthing the arguments of the AMA, to predict over utilisation and abuse of such a system. I wonder whether honourable members saw that marvellous cartoon by Pickering in the 'Canberra Times', which I think summed up the feelings of a lot of people. Members of the Opposition have no evidence that such abuse would happen, only their apparent belief that all patients are potential malingerers and all doctors potential cheats. I reject both those concepts. 
Having no evidence, they attempt to malign our program by comparing it with socialised schemes overseas which they allege are abused and over-costly for taxpayers. So let us look at these socialised schemes. In Britain, which of course has a different scheme from ours and which, if you like to express the term, is much more socialist, such radical socialists as  Sir Winston  Churchill,  Mr Harold  MacMillan,  Sir Alex  Douglas-Home and  Mr Heath  have in recent years presided over a health scheme which has been maliciously slandered here in Australia. The 'Lancet', probably the most respected medical journal in the world, said recently of the British scheme: 
No country, literally no country, can afford more than one health service system. This truth will be concealed for as long as possible by insurance companies and other  enterpreneurs;  but it cannot be hidden forever. In countries where medical expenses are still met from personal purses with or without an element of private insurance, any long or complicated illness may spell financial ruin for families which, until the illness, were not poor. This reality, if nothing else, will sooner or later drive other countries to follow the example of the National Health Act of 1946 - Britain's most important single item of social legislation in a century. 
The Australian universal health insurance program will not be a national health service in the same sense as the British scheme, since Australian doctors will still collect .a fee for every service they perform and will not work for the Government. But, like the British national health service and the Canadian insurance scheme, the Australian universal health insurance program will ensure that everybody in the community will receive health care as a basic right rather than as a purchased privilege. 
The Opposition spokesmen who seek to denigrate our proposals by pointing to Canada's Medicare scheme should here and now take note of the facts that the  Deputy  Minister for Health in Canada,  Dr M.  Le Clair, and the Director-General of Health Insurance,  Dr R.  A. Armstrong, have recently sent in writing to Australia outright denials of statements made by medical pressure groups and spokesmen claiming that the Canadian system of universal health insurance is too costly and is being over-used. Many Canadian doctors reject the claims that are being made. The facts are that in Canada the costs of medical care are rising more slowly than they are under Australia's present ramshackle health insurance scheme and that the Canadian system is not being over-used even though it has made medical and hospital care equally accessible to everybody. On this latter point a comprehensive, expert study has shown that what are classified by doctors as unreasonable calls for medical treatment have risen by a factor of less than one in one hundred patients under Medicare. So much for that argument. At the same time Medicare has allowed people who would otherwise have been financially deterred from seeking medical care at the right time to go to their doctors early in the course of their illness. By receiving treatment at the right time, they then avoid the illness becoming complicated and therefore requiring more of their doctors' time and skill, and naturally more money, to treat. These are the facts and Opposition members who persist in making claims about abuse of the Canadian system stand in the same danger of having this deceit explode in their faces as did the AMA when it received a letter from the  President  of the Nova Scotia Medical Association rebuking it for its misrepresentations of the Canadian scheme. 
The reason why our program has been the subject of such malicious misrepresentations must, I think, by now be apparent to the public at large. There can be no real question that our equitably based program, with its guarantees of the right choice, of quality and of personal privacy, will be a very great improvement on the present system. I point out to the House that I asked a question on this very subject this morning in the House and I was told how much privacy people have now. The falsity of most of the criticisms of it and the ferocity with which they have been pursued reveal the self-interest of those behind them and their determination that the privileges of the few should be maintained at the expense of the rights of the majority. Well, the game is up. The public has seen through the smokescreen that has been thrown up and this Government will not let its objectives be frustrated by cliques of socially selfish people. I ask the House to carry these Bills. I believe that the Australian public wants them; the Australian public needs them. 
I  present the ninth report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What are the details of research programs funded by and for the Poverty Inquiry, the body or bodies conducting such programs, the cost of each such program, and the total cost. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the details for each State of assistance provided under the Australian Assistance Plan including a broad outline of the bodies supported and the way in which the program will operate in each case. &lt;2) What cost will be incurred by the Australian Government in each case. 
What research projects have been initiated and supported by the Social Welfare Commission, what cost was involved, and who or what institution conducted the research. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that 8 per cent of practising doctors in Australia have been trained in Asian or African Medical Schools. 
Can he say what is the doctor-population ration in (a) Asia, (b) Africa and '(c) Australia. 
How many Asian or African-trained doctors entered Australia during 1972. 
How many Asian or African-born students graduated from Australian Medical Schools in 1972. 
How many students returned to Asia or Africa after graduating from Australian Medical Schools in 1972. &lt;6) Is the medical course at Australian universities considered appropriate for Asian medical students returning to Asia, in view of its low emphasis on tropical medicine, public health and pediatrics. 
I second the motion. As a new member to this House last year I approached this Parliament and the record which was set out in the Governor-General's speech that was made at that time with a great deal of hope. Right at the outset I must say that this hope has not been disappointed. The hope that Australians had has not been disappointed either. At that time I said that the Governor-General's speech was a blueprint for social and economic change in Australia. Who could deny that a marvellous start has been made? The Government has lived up to the promises which it made through the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I am proud to be a member of this Government and I am proud to be able to second the motion. I am proud to be a member of a Labor Party Government which has done so much for the people of Australia and which will do so much in the future. 
Since the Government took office we have seen great increases in productivity and a great reduction in unemployment. We have seen all sorts of innovations introduced into this House by way of legislation. We are seeing moves to bring about greater equality in Australia for men, women and children and the various other matters which have been the main planks of our platform. There has been a new spirit of change since the election. Many outmoded methods have been replaced. The question that people sometimes ask is: 'Are we going too fast?' But I believe that it is more important to ask: 'What have we accomplished?' We have to ask whether we have done what we said we would do and whether we have carried out the promises which we made. I believe that this Government in the short space of 15 months has done that. 
What are some of the features of this Labor Government? One of the principal features that did not apply to any other government for 23 years is that the elected representatives who sit on this side of the House help to decide what will be the Government's policy. We meet together. The lowest and the newest backbencher has a vote equal to that of the Prime Minister when matters are discussed. That is true democracy, and that does not apply on the other side of the House. 
We will see how much rubbish it is. The Liberal Party introduced what I thought was a progressive change in the election of its executive. But I see from reading today's paper that the Party has decided to renege and go back on the whole scheme. If ever the Liberal and Country Parties should again become the Government of this country the Prime Minister of that government will be open to all the pressure groups and the powerful forces that  stand behind the Liberal Party. 
The present Government received a mandate from the people in 1972. The proposals which we put before the people then were clearly stated. Our policy was available to the public. If the public chose to do so it could buy it. But these sorts of things seldom apply as far as our political opponents are concerned. The mandate that we received is only 15 months old. The mandate received by senators sitting in another place is either  6i  years old or 3i years old. To whom should the people of Australia listen? If we took notice of some of the things that are said on the other side of the House, for instance the opposition to having Senate and House of Representatives elections held concurrently, we would have unstable government. Governments of the country should face the people every 3 years. This would give the people of Australia the opportunity to pass judgment upon those governments. But if an election is held every single week legislation will be thwarted and we would never get anything done in this country. We want to be able to put our program into effect. When we have done this we will be happy to face the judgment of the people, and I think I know what the judgment will be, because the people at that stage will be quite convinced and satisfied about what we have done. 
I believe that one of the important features of debates in this House is that members on this side of the House should try to educate the Australian people and to let them know what is going on in government. This is why debates of the kind in which we are now participating are a good idea. Of course, people and institutions are conservative. People like to hold to things that they know and trust, and sometimes they do not like change. But there are things that have taken place in our society over 23 years which need change. The Australian public recognised this in 1972, and I believe that they will recognise it when this Government comes up for election again. It is easy to be conservative. But the philosophy of what is good enough for my father is good enough for me is not an acceptable one in a fast changing world. In fact, this philosophy has never been true. If it had been true we would still be living in caves. 
Honourable members opposite and other people say that business is not doing very well. I came across a heading in the Melbourne Age' of 1 March which stated: 'TNT on road to another record'. The article in the newspaper stated: 
Transport group, Thomas Nationwide Transport, bolstered profit 27.9 per cent to a record S4.099.9S6 in the half year to December 31 ... it follows a 71 per cent revenue lift to $ 120.2m. 
Another headline concerned a big pastoral company - one of those companies that benefit from the superphosphate bounty. My friends in the Country Party ought to listen to this: 
New South Wales pastoralist Warra Developments announced a 13-for-2 bonus of $2 shares following buoyant results in the first half of 1973-74. 
That is a company which has been struggling to pay dividends for the past decade. That is just one company. A little further down the page is a summary by one of the financial writers of this newspaper. Incidentally, there is a very interesting cartoon on the page. It shows a group of men sitting around a board-room table with a graph going predictably up. The  chairman  says: 'The policy of this company is to vote Lib. and pray to God they don't get in'. This page with about eight or nine different records on it shows exactly what this Government is doing for the economy. 
The honourable member for Phillip mentioned price control. It was interesting to see that the Liberal Party joined with vested interest financial groups in Australia and successfully persuaded and frightened the people into the belief that price control would be wrong. I think a lot of people in Australia are having second thoughts about it. How can any national government control prices without the proper powers? However, we are doing what we can within the limits of the Constitution. There is a good deal of evidence that the effect of Government policies is reducing inflation. How we can control inflation with the sort of profit leaps that we have is difficult to understand. One of the things that this Government proposes to do, and has outlined in  Her  Majesty's Speech, is to go ahead with proposals to expand the Australian Industry Development Corporation. This will allow the ordinary person, small organisations or business, activity to participate in the growth of Australia. But we hear objections from vested business interests and from the honourable members on the other side of the House. Do they believe in free enterprise? Do they believe that people ought to be able to invest in their own country for their own country's good? They are not interested in free enterprise; they are interested in vested private enterprise, and there is a great deal of difference between the two. 
This Government, through tariff adjustments, has attempted to stabilise manufacturing and manufacturing costs in Australia, Incidentally, this has been of considerable assistance to the rural sector of our economy. We have increased aid to under developed countries. We believe - this has happened in many cases, particularly with some electrical goods - that this will bring lower prices to consumers. There have been currency revaluations. We did things. We took the steps which previous governments were frightened to take although every economist of any note at all in Australia urged that that should be done. Of course what was happening was that huge amounts of so-called 'hot money' were pouring into Australia with drastic effects not only in regard to inflationary pressures in the economy but also in regard to the ownership of Australia. 
One of the most important things that this Government has done has been in the field of social security. I shall not mention again the figures cited by the honourable member for Phillip, but I point out that with the increases which will be brought in during session, pensions for all classes of pensioners will reach the highest rates compared with average weekly earnings, certainly over the last quarter of a century. This is something of which I am particularly proud. Concurrently with that we have also taken steps to abolish the means test, which will be concluded in the life of this Parliament. The pension increases have kept ahead and will keep ahead of inflation. The Government has established the Australian Commission on Social Welfare and through it, the Australian assistance plan. The poverty inquiry has been expanded under Professor Henderson and a national superannuation committee has been established under Professor Hancock. 
The honourable member for Phillip mentioned foreign affairs. 1 believe this Government has a proud record in this field. A lot of credit must go to the Prime Miinster of Australia for what he has done to make this country a progressive and friendly middle power in our area. This has conferred great benefits on to Australia. I point out to the House that hatred in international politics does nothing- but destroy. As a former teacher I am most interested in what has been done in education. Nowhere is the new spirit which is so evident more strongly epitomised than in what we have done in education. We have increased the amount of funds for education in the last Budget by 92 per cent. We have given assistance to needy students. We have helped special areas in education. In just one area, we have spent eight times as much money on primary schools in the State education system as was spent by our predecessors - eight times. 
The Karmel Committee report was a marvellous document, well written and humane, and it contains a very substantial blueprint for what is to come. The permanent Schools Commission has been established. The preschools committee has reported and action will be taken on its report. The Government has taken over financial responsibility for all universities and tertiary institutions, and we are looking at technical education at the moment through a committee which has been established. 
There has been a tremendous increase in trade. We have made long term contracts which will be of enormous benefit to the country as a whole and to primary producers in particular. These long term contracts will enable farmers to plan. I am sure that the Country Party will agree with me that it is most important that a farmer, as well as any other businessman, should be able to plan effectively. As far as minerals and energy are concerned, many of us were most disturbed that Australia's wealth through its minerals was being sold overseas at bargain prices. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the Government have taken some resolute action to see that this sort of thing will not happen. How right the Minister was when he took that action. Since then we have had an energy crisis. If action is taken to set up the authority to drill for oil, and find minerals and so on, in addition to the other private enterprise drillings and minerals search, we can look forward to Australia being much better off in the future as far as minerals generally and petroleum in particular are concerned. 
As a representative of an outer metropolitan area I am particularly interested to see what has been done in the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Action is long overdue if our cities are not to become completely choked. I was interested to see that mention was made in the Queen's Speech of the setting up of a statutory authority to deal with road safety matters in Australia. This was a recommendation of this House's Select 
Committee on Road Safety which brought down a unanimous report. I pay a tribute to the members on both sides of the House who participated in the work of this Committee. It is important to note that only 20 days after this report was presented to the House the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that the Government accepted the recommendations of the Committee. How many times did that happen in the past? If this statutory authority carries out the work that I hope it will carry out - the Committee continues to meet and offer recommendations - I have every hope that the terrible - that is a much overused word - toll which is taken of human lives in Australia will largely be abated. It is impossible to mention everything. I would have liked to have touched on many of the other Ministeries to explain to the House and to those listening what this Government has achieved in the short space of IS months, but there is not enough time. 
When I last spoke in an Address-in-Reply debate I said that the real question is whether we are prepared to organise properly to see that ideals are translated into action. Talk is cheap. This Government has shown that it is more than a government of words; it is a government of action. I am quite sure that as time goes on the sorts of things that are mentioned in  Her  Majesty's Speech will come into fruition and will be of great benefit to the people of Australia; for instance, the protection of consumers against restrictive trade practices and the setting up of ombudsmen, one for civil personnel and one for defence personnel. This is long overdue. It was talked about by our predecessors many times in the past but it never came to fruition. These are allimportant things. I am, as I said at the outset, proud to be a member of this Labor Government which in the short space of IS months has achieved so much. 
The Queen's Speech continues to outline the program which was set out in the Governor-General's Speech at the start of this Parliament. At my primary school we had a motto: 'Not failure but low aim is a crime'. This Government will have its failures either through mistakes which are made from time to time or because our legislation is rejected in the Senate. But we can assure the people of Australia that we will stick by our word. We will carry out the program and we will do everything that we can to benefit the ordinary people who live in this great country of ours. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen a statement reported in today's Age' attributed to the Victorian Minister for Transport,  Mr Meagher,  concerning low cost road safety improvements? Is it true, as  Mr Meagher  claims, that there was delay in approving the grant caused by 'bureaucrats in Canberra with an inordinate lust for power'? What is this Government's program for road safety? Can  Mr Meagher's  statement be substantiated? 
I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Will the Prime Minister consider reintroducing last year's Commonwealth Electoral Bill so that those members who support the principle of one vote one value for the first time, such as the Leader of the Opposition, can vote to have this principle enshrined in our electoral law? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that next year is International Women's Year? Does he agree that Australia should participate in this important event? If so, will he outline what Australia's contribution will be? 
When the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was speaking last evening he referred to the awesome scope of this legislation. 
Well, the 1973 legislation. But I take it from some of the comments that have been made that there is still a feeling on the part of members of the Opposition that this is a very radical change in the way in which we operate the financial structure of this country. I do not believe that there has been any great change of attitude on the part of the Government. Discussions have been held with representatives of business and financial corporations and the changes in this legislation are aimed at making those financial institutions feel more happy about the situation. There has been a willingness on the part of the Government to respond to some of these fears. I believe that many of the fears have been unfounded. This legislation is not, as some people have attempted to say previously, nationalisation by stealth or anything like it. There is a need for balanced investment in this country. There is a need to marshal our resources and there is a need for financial changes in a modern society. 
Much has been mentioned recently in the Press and in other places about the crisis faced by capitalism, which is the system which operates in the Western democracies, and about a need for change. Honourable members will recall that there was a change in attitude after the depression of 1929 and we entered upon the Keynesian era of economics. I believe the world has changed a good deal, particularly in recent years, and there is a need for us to re-assess the way in which we use the resources of our country. There is a need for the whole world to re-assess the way in which it uses its resources and to fix the priorities for that use. One of the great advantages which legislation of this sort brings to the attention of the Australian people is the way in which we can marshal the resources that are available. In this country there are many people who would wish to invest in projects of national priority within their own country. Many people would be motivated by the fact that they would be assisting in the development of their own country. I point out to the House that the amount of money which will be organised through the National Investment Fund and operated by the Australian Industry Development Corporation under this legislation will be an extremely small part of the total amount of money invested in Australia. There are areas which require investment funds but which are not fully provided for by existing financial attitudes and institutions. I believe that this legislation will enable us, through the National Investment Fund, to marshal the resources which are needed. 
The Bills under discussion are not radical. They operate within the traditional financial concepts applying in this country. Can anyone deny that it is to the advantage of this country and of the people who live in it to marshal those resources, and that there are areas of development which presently are not being undertaken but which could be undertaken with great advantage of this country? 
I should like to refer to some of the provisions of the Bills. I mention first the changes proposed to be made by the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. As honourable members would know, under the existing Act the AIDC is limited to providing finance for the development of manufacturing, processing or mining industries. The changes to the Act proposed by this Bill would enable the AIDC to promote a wider range of activity. They would enable investment in goods transport and distribution and also would promote the develop ment and use of natural resources and technology. People who ought to know tell us, for instance, that huge reserves of gas and oil exist in Australia. Legitimate argument can arise between the Government and the Opposition as to whether the development of such resources should be promoted by subsidies and concessions to companies many of them foreign owned, or whether we should not as a matter of national priority embark upon investment in our own right, giving ordinary Australians a chance to participate in the development of their country. Undoubtedly, private investment will continue in the future, but I believe that a case can be made out for investment in these projects by the public sector. 
Other matters also deserve consideration. For instance, I believe that, with the continuing energy crisis in the world, there will be a need to use resources to develop such things as solar energy. Such projects will not appear immediately attractive to private investment; yet considered opinion may tell us that investment is necessary in that field of development, and an organisation such as the AIDC, through the National Investment Fund, will enable us to organise our resources to develop that type of industry, if such should be the need. As I mentioned earlier, the amendments to the Act proposed in this Bill have arisen from discussions with various sectors of private investment, financial institutions and business groups. The Government also has taken note of suggestions made in debates in this House and in another place and through the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control of Australian Resources. The provisions of the earlier Bill giving the Corporation power 'to raise money otherwise than by borrowing' and 'to carry on any business or activity' have been omitted from clause 5. The Government's attitude has been to respond to suggestions which have been made. 
In regard to the National Investment Fund Bill, its more important provisions are that the Fund will be administered by the AIDC and will consist of a number of financially separate divisions, organised to attract different categories of investors - for example, the general public, large institutions and foreign investors. It also will enable people to pick and choose as to the sort of investment into which they wish to put their money. In other words, if there is an investment which contains a good deal of risk as compared with other investments - such as investment in oil search or in the search for other minerals - obviously it is to the advantage of both the investors and the proper organisation of the Fund to separate those categories. 
In the main, the Fund will operate by issuing investment bonds. I point out to the House that these are similar to investments in unit trusts and so on which have become part of the Australian financial scene. The bondholders will share in the income and capital growth of the division to which they subscribe. Of course, this has not always been the case with various other unit trust investments. Sometimes, people have invested merely on the basis of sharing in dividends and returns and not always in the capital growth. I believe that the provision contained in the Bill is very important. 
In addition to issuing investment bonds, the AIDC will be able to offer superannuation, retirement or savings schemes to the public under section 16 (3) and any life cover included in these schemes will be arranged through established life assurance companies. In its administration of the Fund the AIDC will be supervised by an independent supervisory council to be established by Part IV of the Bill to protect the interests of the subscribers to the fund. I stress again that I believe that this is a marvellous opportunity for the ordinary investor - the ordinary man in the street whom the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  mentioned during his speech - to organise his assets not only for his own benefit but also for the benefit of the country. It is time that we started to rethink the way in which we operate. We live in a pluralist society not only in the social sense but also in the economic sense. Many examples exist of government enterprise working in conjunction with private enterprise, and I believe that in a balanced type of society - the sort of pluralist society, both economically and socially, in which we live - we should be encouraging that sort of investment. 
This Bill is important because it enlarges the scope of the previous legislation. In my opinion, although this legislation is only part of it, the Bill is necessary to enable us to organise our resources so that we do not always have to look to foreign risk capital to encourage the development of our own natural resources or to assist in other development projects where money may be scarce. 
I look forward to seeing this legislation not reduce the scope of investment in Australia but add substantially and significantly to the way in which we can enlarge and diversify our development. 
I am pleased that the Opposition is supporting the main provisions of the Bill. I believe that the fears that were expressed before were unfounded. I point out to the House that the amendments that were moved when the 1973 Bill was before the House would have completely emasculated the legislation. I do not believe that those amendments could be regarded as being a serious attempt to improve the legislation; they were moved merely to block it. I do not believe that the changes proposed to this Bill by the Opposition, whether or not the Government agrees with the amendments, can be said to be obstructionist. To this extent, I welcome the change of attitude of honourable members opposite. I believe that there has been an exchange of opinions not only between Government members and Opposition members in this place but also in the community at large. I look forward confidently to the use of the resources, which this legislation will enable us to develop, for the benefit of this country. 
Sitting suspended from 12.50 to 2.15 p.m. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McMahon)  adjourned. 
I present the first report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I support the proposal now before this Parliament. Benjamin Franklin once said that the right to fair and equal elections is at the very heart and core of any free constitution. That statement was made by a man who played a very important part in framing the Constitution of the United States of Amenca. This electoral proposal is put before us so that we can carry out that principle. I would like to discuss the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden.  I do not believe that he is being consistent in his attitude. Not so long ago- in fact, on 5 May this year-  Mr Snedden  issued a Press statement. In the fourth paragraph, when he was talking about the referendum concerning democratic elections, he said: This represents a fundamental departure from the principle of one vote one value- the only right and proper principle on which to base electoral redistribution. I repeat those words'the only right and proper principle on which to base electoral redistribution'. I was so impressed with that statement that at question time I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question on this subject as follows: 
Will the Prime Minister consider reintroducing last year's Commonwealth Electoral Bill so that those members who support the principle of one vote one value for the first time, such as the Leader of the Opposition, can vote to have his principle enshrined in our electoral law? 
Earlier I tried to ask the same question and the Leader of the Opposition had it ruled out of order because supposedly it was not allowable as it related to some opinion he had expressed. The Opposition was very worried about that sort of statement. The fact is that the Opposition now has a chance to put its vote where its Leader's words were, but we all know what will happen. This question will be decided on the numbers of the Government against those of the Opposition, with the single exception of the vote of  Senator Hall.  It is quite useless for  Senator Withers  to talk about what had happened in South Australia. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has already mentioned that it was quite impossible to do more than  Senator Hall  did in South Australia when he was Premier. We know that we are afflicted in this country- I use the word 'afflicted' advisedly- by Upper Houses which are not democratically elected, which are not elected by the people, which flout the very principle about which Benjamin Franklin talked in his words that I read to the Parliament. 
I represent the division of Diamond Valley in the House of Representatives in this Parliament. It has the largest electoral population in the whole of Victoria. In my own State in the electorate of Wimmera 56 people have the same voting power as 100 people whom I represent. This is supposed to be democracy. Immediately to the north of Wimmera in the electorate of Mallee 57 people have the same voting power as 100 people in the electorate of Diamond Valley. Is this democracy? Of course it is not. We heard the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  talk before about the Leader of the Opposition's electorate of Bruce. Prior to the 1968 redistribution it had over 120,000 electors while other electorates had only a quarter of that number. That is not democracy either. In fact it is quite impossible to determine a redistribution on the basis of area. Mallee, which is the largest electorate in Victoria, with an area of over 19,000 square miles, has a population density approximately 8 times greater than that of Darling, the largest electorate in New South Wales. Is there any logic in saying that a vote in Darling ought to be worth 8 times a vote in Mallee? Of course not. The way to make representation more equal from the point of view of servicing electorates is not to gerrymander or, more correctly, to malapportion the electorates, but to make the services available to members fit and proper for the job members have to do. They can then service their constituents and not come into this House with a weighted vote which goes against every principle of democratic elections which we hold dear in Australia. This is something which we have fought for, and I think we should not give it up lightly. 
Much has been made this morning of the statement that the Australian Labor Party received only 49 per cent of the vote but 52 per cent of the seats in the last election. But when we look at the preferred vote- after all our system is of a preferential nature- we find that the situation is completely different. On the preferred vote the Australian Labor Party, which sits in the House of Representatives as the Government, had much more than 50 per cent of the vote. The combined vote of the Country Party, the Liberal Party and the Democratic Labor Party over Australia, is very much less than 50 per cent of the total. In fact of the total votes polled, the Australian Labor Party polled about 250,000 more than the combined votes of the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party. The Australian Labor Party sits in the House of Representatives as the Government not because of a gerrymander but in spite of it. 
If we are to talk about the representation of large areas, surely, as members spend a lot of their time in Canberra, we should give an electorate a weighting according to its distance from Canberra. Nobody has suggested that. Yet travelling becomes part of the members 's time. It takes time to travel from Perth. I can board an aircraft at Tullamarine airport and be in Canberra in about 40 minutes, but it takes my colleagues on both sides of the House much longer to come from Western Australia. The fact that 20 per cent variation has been the rule since Federation ought not blind us to its inequiti. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that 20 per cent was a perfectly reasonable tolerance he was referring to the fact that no one could argue that it was not fair. I think that to turn the argument on its head, as some speakers have done, is completely wrong. 
Today we have heard speakers on the other side of the chamber bring in all sorts of side issues and all sorts of things which have nothing to do with the Bill, and direct all sorts of tirades against this Government. But what we are discussing and what this Bill puts before the Parliament is whether we will so organise our electorates that every person at voting age will have his vote weighed equally, not in the way which has happened in the past. At the moment 18.5 per cent of electorates in the various States are below 10 per cent of the quota which is prescribed in this Bill and 20.9 per cent are above that 10 per cent. In other words, more than one-fifth of the electorates in the States are above the quota prescribed in the legislation. Gladstone once said: 'Do our opponents believe in counting votes or weighing them?'  Mr Acting Chairman,  I put to you that u I were a member of the Australian Country Party I would hide from the weights and measures inspector. The Prime Minister quoted a section from the 1959 report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review but I believe that it needs to be said again. The Committee stated unanimously that any quota differential over and above 10 per cent could not be justified. I believe that to be true. Of course there is quite a good deal of difference between a gerrymander and a malapportionment. A gerrmander takes its name from Governor Gerry of Massachusetts who drew up a series of electorates shaped like a salamander. But a malapportionment is a different thing. It is where one gets the weighing of votes to suit a series of areas. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that a 20 per cent tolerance was essential because should this Bill become an Act we would have too frequent redistributions. That is just not true. If the distribution commissioners look at the situation and allow for growth areas, there is no reason whatsoever why we should have too frequent redistributions. When the 1968 redistribution took place it should have been evident, and if the proper set of criteria had been established it would have been evident, that the seat of Diamond Valley would grow considerably in succeeding years. Yet no real attempt was made to allow for that. This Bill will allow a weighing to be within a quota of 10 per cent which protects other areas. I do not believe that at any time it should be more than 10 per cent. 
That is only because of the circumstances involved. But the right honourable gentleman's Party supported the situation which allowed 20 per cent but it did not provide for that variation because it sold out to the Country Party any principles it had in regard to electoral distribution. It is a great surprise to me that the Liberal Party which, at the turn of the electoral wheel, might one day-a long way off I feelbecome the government of this country in its own right, will never, as it sells out to the Country Party and allows that weighing of electorates, achieve what should be the objective in a 2-Party system which relies on traditional Westminster style democracy of governing in its own right. At present the Liberal Party has no chance to govern in its own right. Of course the Liberal Party in Victoria is very disturbed about the situation. That is one of the reasons why there was trouble at the election. 
This Bill is of great importance to the Australian people. It allows for one person one vote. It allows the people of Australia to decide, by a majority of electors, who will govern them. It allows the people of Australia to determine what sorts of policies are to be passed in this Parliament. It is a most important part of our democratic structure that governments should be elected on the basis of one person one vote. I believe it is ridiculous to expect commissioners to take into account area as well as population, because not only do areas vary but the population distributions within areas vary. I draw to the attention of members of this Parliament the situation that occurs in various country electorates. Some country electorates have a large number of urban centres within their boundaries. In the seat of Mallee, which I cited earlier, the population is relatively dispersed with only 41 percent of electors living in towns with a population of 1,000 or more. 
However, in other country seats, in both Victoria and New South Wales, the situation is different. For instance, in the seat of Gwydir represented by  Mr Hunt,  the percentage of electors in large towns is 58.17. It is easier to service an electorate which has a concentration of voters in urban areas than to service an electorate where there are a large number of small towns and hamlets which their representative must visit. This is regardless of the size of the area because in these days of modern travel and communication it is possible for members properly to service their electorates. 
I know, from living in country areas, that in walking down the main street of a country town one can meet more people whom he knows than he would in a city. This is because there is a focus of community activity in smaller areas. In an electorate like Diamond Valley, which has a large number of people dispersed evenly over the whole suburban landscape, that focus of community interest is not as easy to organise as it is in a country town. A member visiting a country town at once has a whole structure of community organisations before him with which he can keep contact. With modern travel there is absolutely no reason why we should weigh the vote of country electors more than city electors, because country members are more in contact with their constituents. 
I believe that this Parliament- this House of Representatives and Senate assembled together- should pass the proposed law which is before it. As I have already explained, there is no way by which equality between various electorates can be achieved because the areas of the States vary so much. But there are very good reasons why we should pass a law which will enable the principle of one person one vote to be enshrined in the legislation used to decide what members are to represent the various areas of Australia. I support the BiD and suggest to honourable members opposite that they should change their minds and vote with the Government on this issue. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did representatives of the Australian Government take part in a secret meeting of the World Bank in Paris during the period 10 to 14 October 1973 called for the express purpose of raising a large loan for the use of the Thieu Administration. 
If so, has the Australian Government made any subsequent commitments to the World Bank, or any of its agencies, concerning such aid. 
How much of the proposed contribution of $27m by Australia to the Asian Development Bank will go to the Thieu Administration in the form of long term loans with special conditions, and what are the special conditions. 
Is it a fact that both the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have each made a firm decision not to give any aid to the Provisional Revolutionary Government. 
If so, does any decision by the Australian Government to contribute funds to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank which are then made available to one administration only in South Vietnam conflict with the provisions of the Pans Peace Agreement which clearly recognises that the two administrations in South Vietnam are to be treated with strict equality. 
Will he take steps to see that, in financial matters affecting South Vietnam, the Australian Government will adhere strictly to the provisions of the Paris Agreement as undertaken in statements by the Prime Minister on 28 January 1973 and IS March 1973. 
First, I congratulate the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on his maiden speech. I am sure that the special skills which he brings to the House will be of benefit in the debates that we will have in the future. 
The Budget which the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  presented has 3 main objectives. The first is to maintain full employment; the second is to have a greater social equality; and the third is to control inflation. I believe that the proposals in the speech presented last Tuesday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and in the amendment which he moved do nothing and would do nothing to help obtain those 3 objectives. As has already been pointed out, if the tax cuts which the Leader of the Opposition proposes were given, one must suppose that there would be some balancing. One wonders what areas of present expenditure proposed by the Government would be cut by a Liberal Government. Yet the Leader of the Opposition criticises the Budget on the ground that it does not make sufficient money available in some areas. Surely people must see something illogical in that approach. 
Of course, many financial commentators were quick to point out that the proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition on behalf of the Liberal Party and the Country Party did not pose any real and viable alternative to what we on this side of the House are proposing. In fact, over the last year there has been a great deal of negative thinking on the part of honourable members on the other side of the House. They are very quick to criticise, but they are very slow to come up with anything approaching a viable alternative policy- not that that would be easy, because every country with a comparable standard of living and undergoing comparable economic circumstances is having the same sort of difficulty as Australia is at this moment. 
If we had taken the advice of some people we would have had a situation in which a rise in unemployment to levels which, I believe, would be completely unsatisfactory would have been inevitable. I believe that the Government did the right thing in approaching this problem on the basis that jobs ought to be preserved. Of course, it is not only the people who are working for a wage or salary who are affected when unemployment comes. Unemployment also affects businesses of all sorts, particularly the small businesses and the selective businesses which deal in particular goods or services. Often these are the first businesses to go to the wall when there is unemployment. People just have  not got  the money to spend. 
Last week, after the Budget was presented, I saw a newspaper headline which suggested that the middle class was getting the axe. Nothing could be futher from the truth. Who in our society has the most to gain from the initiatives in the field of transport, education, health services, social security and other public services which this Government has taken since it came to power? Very few people are wealthy enough to say that they can stand aside from the community; that they will not need the assistance of their fellows at some time during their lives. 
This Budget proposes social justice. It proposes plans which will assist people and enable them to live free and happy lives in the best sense of those words. It is not possible for even moderately wealthy people to organise an education system for the education of their children. They rely on other people in either the public sector or the private sector. Most people rely on education in the public sector. It is not possible for most people to provide sufficient health services for themselves. What if a wealthy person is involved in a motor vehicle accident and has to go to the casualty station of one of our larger public hospitals? There has been a good deal of criticism of the facilities provided at these hospitals. This is no criticism of the nurses and doctors who staff them; rather is it criticism of the overall facilities that are provided. No matter how wealthy a person is, if he finds himself in those circumstances the type of facility which is provided and the type of service which is provided may well save his life. 
We on this side of the House have taken initiatives. We wish to use the skills of people. We wish to see innovation and initiative in the private sector. I believe that we can achieve it and that we will encourage it by the measures which we will take. I heard someone suggest that the Budget did nothing to encourage the private sector. I also heard the suggestion that devaluation was something apart from the Budget. Quite clearly it is not. To see the way in which private investment and private industry have fared under this Government one need only look at the chart published in the 'National Times' last week. For the benefit of my friends opposite I will mention some of the companies named on the chart and their earning rates compared with the value of their shares. The Bank of New South Wales has an earning rate of 20.5 per cent. The Australian Mining and Smelting company has an earning rate of 26.2 per cent and the Australian Guarantee Corporation has an earning rate of 26.8 per cent. I refer now to the pastoral industry. Dalgety's has an earning rate of 32.7 per cent on the value of the capital at market prices. 
They are doing very well at the moment. Elder Smith, another pastoral company, has an earning rate of 23.8 per cent. Thomas Nationwide Transport has an earning rate of 26.4 per cent. These figures give the lie to the scaremongery which we hear so often that this economy is not doing so well at present. In the 12 months preceding my Party's corning to government there had been a tremendous explosion of credit in the Australian community. In the 6 months from June to December 1972 there was an explosion of credit of 16.7 per cent. This was a tremendous rise and one which led to the great problems which this Government faced when it came to power. 
It has gone down considerably since, despite that inflation, as such, is continuing. In fact it was this trigger which set off the inflation we now have. It is quite easy to see that when something is thrown out of equilibrium- as was done by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government for political purposes in order to try to regain the ground lost during 1972 and to retain the government of this country- a tremendous strain is placed on the economy of this country. This Government took measures to prevent this oscillation in the economy. 
As everybody knows many of these measures take six to nine months to come into effect. Now it is necessary to reverse some of these measures. It is not possible to know exactly what effect they have. As part of a co-ordinated plan we are taking steps to see that those measures which were taken in answer to this tremendous liquidity in the economy are now changed. We have devalued whereas before we needed to revalue as an answer to the problems which had arisen. We have reduced the amount required in the variable deposit ratio. We have released bank credits. I am quite sure that these measures taken by the Government will have the desired effect. The Liberal-Country Party Government refused to revalue foreign exchange in 1972 when it should have done so. It is interesting to note that in the 12 months which I spoke about before there was a 20 per cent increase overall, which was about 3 times as much as the average annual increase for the previous 20 years. There was also a food crisis. This not only led to a great deal of liquidity in Australia but also, and more importantly, it led to a rise in food prices which in turn placed a great amount of pressure on the need for rises in wages. Finally there was an oil crisis. Although not all the oil that we use is imported, unlike many other countries, we still import a great deal- 
That is true. More importantly the oil crisis has had a destabilising effect on the world economy as a whole. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the volume of money and the changes from the year 1 968 to June 1 974. 
I present the second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the continuing terrible cost of road accidents in terms of human suffering and finance, and the recommendation of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety in its first report, can the Minister inform the House when it is intended to establish the proposed National Road Safety Authority so that the present largely unco-ordinated approach to road safety can be tackled at a national level? 
-I rise to speak on the estimates of the Department of Transport and to talk primarily about road safety and the need for improved road safety in our community. First, I would like to point out to the Committee the amount of money that is being spent on road transport in Australia as provided for in this current Budget. The amount provided is $342.4m, an increase of $25.6m on last year. For road safety and other services, we also find a considerable increase in expenditure. During last year money was provided in my electorate of Diamond Valley for the duplication of the railway track between Macleod and Greensborough. If we are to make rail transport more attractive for the general community we will have to do more and more of these works. If we want public transport to compete with the motor car, and the motor car has many advantages, as a community we are going to have to provide better facilities. In my first speech in this place I spoke of road safety and said: 
If this country were involved in hostilities with another country which caused the tens of thousands of deaths and injuries which road accidents cause in Australia every year, then no effort would be spared, no cost would be too great to see that such death and injury were brought to an end. That is the sort of effort we must make. If it means a complete rethink about the type of individual and public transport system that we will need in the future, then that is what we must do. New concepts which will provide fast, safe, and efficient transport and at the same time preserve our resources and our environment must be thought out and adopted. 
Last Saturday I attended a meeting with the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and representatives of people who work in the aircraft industry. They are concerned that the aircraft industry does not have enough work. These people work at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factory in Melbourne. Both these concerns have a great deal of productive capacity which is not being used and I suggest to both the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the new generation of public transport vehicles which we need can be provided by the expertise which has been built up in these organisations over a large number of years. It would be a great shame if we allowed these organisations to run down. I point out to the Minister for Transport that the De Havilland organisation in Sydney now supplements the income it would otherwise get from building aircraft by building jet-powered boats and other sorts of aluminium hulled craft. I am sure that if sufficient planning and thought were given to it we could use institutions such as the 
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories to produce buses and trams and, in fact, a rapid transport system which I hope we will see in Australia before too long. Together with the measures that were outlined by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  with respect to urban rapid transport, this will also meet some of the difficulties which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  mentioned a little while ago. 
I stress some of the things that can be done by improving minor road safety and traffic engineering expenditure. The Standing Committee on Road Safety, formerly the Select Committee on Road Safety, was told that 40 per cent of accidents occur at night, that these cause 55 per cent of road deaths and that the number of miles travelled by the vehicles is 25 per cent or less, so it can be seen there is a great disproportion between the miles travelled and the number of deaths caused. I am sure this has a great deal to do with the fact that, whether people have been drinking or not- no one supposes that alcohol is not a problem in this field- it is much easier for the driver to control his vehicle and he is much more aware of the situation when he can see the kerb, the curves in the road, posts, and whether he is on one side of the road or the other. The Committee was told that on some roads in the United States of America where extensive surveys were carried out, the number of serious accidents was reduced by 78 per cent merely by the simple expedient of marking those roads with reflectorised lines and other sorts of raised prismatic reflectors. One particular example comes to mind and that is in West Milford in New Jersey where a test result showed that the simple expedient of road marking cut down accidents by 44 per cent while other controlled roads in the area which were not similarly marked had an 18 per cent increase . The facts and figures speak for themselves. It was also estimated that for every $ 1 which was spent on these improvements $5 to $7 were saved. 
The same general situation applies to street lighting. I have been through some country towns in Victoria, and no doubt other honourable members from other areas have had the same experience, where it was extremely difficult to see the way. Many of the areas of our urban municipalities are not sufficiently well lit. In these estimates the Government has provided $7.7m this year for minor road safety and traffic engineering improvements. Last year the figure was $3m. I hope that this Government very shortly will introduce legislation to set up a national road safety authority, which is long overdue. Of course I realise that everyone wants to see his pet piece of legislation brought into operation. Sometimes the very same people who are pushing for some piece of legislation say that the Government is introducing too much legislation and that it ought to slow down. But I am afraid that that is the nature of the human being. The things that are nearest and dearest to him are the things he wants to see happen almost immediately. 
Recently, there has been a great deal of publicity in the local Press about the Hume Highway and the disgraceful condition into which it has fallen as the result of flooding and the lack of proper repair work. These factors have resulted in its becoming very dangerous indeed. Apart from improving the pavement of that highway, one of the problems is that the Hume Highway for a great many stretches of its distance is a 2-lane rural road. Statistics show that a disproportionate number of serious road accidents and deaths occur on 2-lane rural roads. 
The House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety received evidence from people who were interested in this matter. They advocated that concrete safety barriers could prove very helpful in reducing the number and severity of road accidents. These barriers prevent vehicles running off the road. They also prevent vehicles which are travelling in opposite directions colliding. If honourable members care to examine the statistics of accidents on the Hume Highway I am sure that they will find that most of the serious accidents involving deaths result from one of these 2 causes. We could stop the accidents resulting in these deaths by the expenditure of a sum which I calculate to be $50m to put these barriers along the highway. The flow of traffic would be increased. Provision would need to be made for passing lanes at fairly short intervals to enable faster moving vehicles to pass slower traffic. I am sure that this could be done. The cost of completely duplicating the Hume Highway, which is a long term program would be between $500m and $600m. 
No one likes freeways. But a number of people want them because they cannot see any reasonable alternative. I believe that the Second Interim Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety which was tabled recently poses reasonable alternatives, particularly those which were outlined earlier by the honourable member for Robertson. We can, if we take the correct action, considerably reduce the number of road accidents in Australia. I believe that it is the responsibility of this Parliament to take that action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. As there seems to be some doubt in some people 's minds about the use to which grants to local government authorities by the Australian Government on the recommendations of the Grants Commission can be directed, can the Minister give a brief outline of the general principles guiding the expenditure of this money? Specifically, can he indicate whether it might be used to reduce rate charges? 
I propose to discuss the estimates of the Department of Housing and Construction. Before doing so I believe it would be appropriate to say a few words in answer to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  The situation is that over a large number of years the Commonwealth has relied far too much on rental accommodation. The Commonwealth Government cannot put up blocks of offices in a very short space of time. This sort of development needs planning and money for this purpose needs to be provided each year in the Estimates. We are faced with the position that the previous Government over the 23 years it was in office did not take the action which it ought to have taken to provide accommodation in buildings owned by the Commonwealth. I believe that the honourable member for Gwydir is treading on very dangerous ground in criticising the present Government for the situation that applies in regard to rental accommodation on which he and his Government should have taken action many years ago. 
I would like to congratulate the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is sitting at the table. I believe that we have seen some substantial changes in the portfolio for which he has jurisdiction since he became the Minister. Previously the Department of Housing, as it was then known, was responsible principally for defence Service homes, making grants under the housing grants scheme and various other peripheral matters. We have seen the development of many new services since the present Government took office. I would like to list them for the benefit of the Committee. They are: Welfare housing, changes in the Defence Service Homes scheme, housing for the aged, indicative planning, the Australian Housing Corporation, the Australian Housing Research Council, the housing information and advisory service, modern housing techniques, uniform housing standards and housing tax relief. All of these matters stand very much to the credit of the Minister and his Department and I would like to congratulate them. 
What was the position of housing when the present Government took office? The amount of money for housing had been increased by 20 per cent in the year before the Government took office. In fact, there was an increase of about 16 per cent in the last 6 months of the previous Government's term of office. It does not take very much nous to know that when there is an increase in the money supply in the economy without a subsequent increase in the amount of goods and services available we have a situation in which too much money is chasing too few goods and the result is inflation. We have reaped - 
We have reaped the trouble that has grown from the seeds sown by the previous Government. I will get to the question of what we did about it in a moment. As the honourable member for Angas has raised the question, I would just like to quote to him what a former Treasurer and Minister for Housing in a Liberal-Country Party coalition Government had to say about that situation. The honourable Leslie Bury, then the honourable member for Wentworth, is reported at page 1511 of Hansard of 1 May last year as having said: 
If the Government does nothing at all to restrain the development of the building sector the inflationary problem will become worse and worse. 
On page 1512 of the Hansard,  Mr Bury  is reported as saying: 
The pressure has to be eased. Someone has to take the unpopular role of reducing the pressure on the building industry. 
That is what one of the members of the Opposition said. The amount of money supplied by various lending institutions has increased from $ 1,250m in 1970-71 to $2,987m in 1972-73. Of course we all know what happened in the building industry because of that great amount of money being supplied too quickly. There was no extra supply of labour and materials and we were left with one of the periodic booms which have hit this country under successive LiberalCountry Party coalition governments. 
I mention for the information of the Committee that loans approved in the last 18 months of the Liberal-Country Party Government numbered 288,844. In the first 18 months of the Labor Government, 335,469 loans were approved. Other figures are comparable. Of course, because of this great supply of money and the fact that building prices rose and people were unable to obtain goods, it was necessary for the benefit of the economy as a whole and ultimately, I believe, for the benefit of the building industry, to take certain action. Therefore, liquidity was cut down. Nobody likes doing this sort of thing, but as I pointed out before, even thi members of the Opposition were suggesting that this ought to be done. Without it we would have had such an increase in inflation in the building industry that nobody would have been able to get a home. 
That period has passed and we are now in a situation in which there is a need to increase liquidity. Bearing in mind that the building industry takes time to slow down and time to build up, measures to increase liquidity will take time to reach optimum effect. But we have adjusted the variable deposit ratio applying to foreign investment in Australia, and we have devalued the Australian dollar. Both these measures will promote capital inflow. There has been a reduction in the rates of interest paid on Treasury notes, which will force money from the public sector into the private sector. Statutory reserve deposit releases have been made, and the purchase of Treasury notes and commercial bills has been undertaken by the Government. 
As the honourable member for Blaxland reminds me, $800m has been put into the economy, This Government will not be satisfied until it has reached a stage where it has proper planning of the building industry. The Government's aim will be the prevention of the boom and bust cycle which has been with us ever since the end of the war. Honourable members will be aware of the situation. Unfortunately the building industry is always the first industry to be hard hit, and we are determined to do something about it. I congratulate the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  on the steps which he has taken. In December 1973 a committee was established to organise an indicative planning council. The council's job is to plan building activity and to examine the resources which are available to the building industry. It proposes to set national guide lines not only for its own benefit but for the benefit also of other levels of government, State and local, and for the industry as a whole. As on previous occasions, the industry will be invited to participate in the working committees which will be set up. Research programs on needs and projections will be established and the council will discuss and give recommendations on how resources may best be used and their availability. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  when he was speaking before lunch criticised the Government for establishing the Australian Housing Corporation. I think the words he used were something like '$25m down the drain'. That criticism is completely unfounded. No better argument could be put in favour of having such a corporation than the situation which we see in the Australian Capital Territory. At the moment in the Australian Capital Territory land prices average $5,500 for a residential block, which is much lower than practically anywhere else in Australia. Certainly prices are much lower than in our major capital cities. I was told the other day by people in the land development industry that it is costing them something over $8,000 merely to develop land with services. The fact that land prices have been kept so low in the Australian Capital Territory is something greatly .to the credit of this Government. It shows what can be done in a properly planned situation. It only strengthens what I said before about the need for proper indicative planning. 
Under the Australian Housing Corporation, the functions, assets and liabilities of the Director of Defence Service Homes will be taken over. The corporation will cater for all persons who come within the Government's constitutional responsibility, that is, the people who work for the Government, defence personnel and so on. It will have initial funds of $25m and it will give immediate assistance to low and middle income earners at low rates of interest. This Government has nothing to be ashamed of in its record on housing. The industry has problems but the Government is facing up to its responsibilities. We will do something about increasing liquidity, but, and this is more important still, we will do something about planning the industry properly so that the boom and bust which occurred under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government will not be with us in the future. 
-I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister: Is it a fact that following the election pledge made on behalf of the Liberal Party prior to the 1 949 election that value would be put back into the pound there was a period when inflation in Australia reached an annual rate of 20 per cent? Is it also a fact that at the time there was a rapid increase in the price of basic commodities on the world market? What parallel can be drawn between this period in the early 1 950s and the present time, with particular regard to the rise in world commodity prices in recent times? 
The debates on the Estimates give members of this chamber an opportunity to put forward ideas on matters that are of particular interest to them. They enable members of the Opposition to criticise and to put up the ideas that they wish to see implemented and they enable members of the Government Party to tell the people of Australia something about what is going on in Australia. In this instance the Committee is debating the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. At the outset I congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  his staff and his Department for what they have done in changing the whole aspect of urban development in Australia. I believe that they are dedicated to making living conditions for Australians a great deal better than they have been in the past. 
I point out that in a planned society or in a planned urban environment people, no matter how much money they have, what their job is or even what their aspirations are, have much better living conditions than they would have if their society or environment were left unplanned. The Australian Capital Territory is an example of what can be done with proper planning. I pay tribute to former governments for at least planning the national capital in a constructive way. Unfortunately they did nothing for the rest of Australia. They allowed it to grow in a haphazard fashion. The present Government has decided to do something about it. The Australian Labor Party put its ideas on this subject to the people at successive elections in 1969, 1972 and 1974 and they were endorsed by the people of Australia because they realised that in proper planning and proper participation by the national government lay the seeds of proper and organised urban growth. 
There is a strong link between urban planning and transport. I am sure that the Minister and his Department are looking closely at this aspect. It is important, if we are to persuade people to live outside the major metropolitan areas, that they have proper transport links with the things that persuade people to live in major urban areaseducation and health facilities and the ability to go to a whole range of cultural facilities and activities from football through to art galleries. People need to feel that they are not cut off from the things in which they wish to participate. I suggest that in the future we must continue to give a great deal of thought to urban planning in the context of transport. I believe that the Government and the Department of Urban and Regional Development are planning well. They are planning to make cities more pleasant and more productive for people. That is what the urban program is all about. Is it more important to have a 20-square house or parks in which the children who live in that house can play? I believe that a properly balanced urban development program will enable people to have good living areas and also to have the facilities that a modern society can provide. 
The Government has taken the initiative in altering the Grants Commission Act to enable local government bodies to receive finance from the national government. We hear a lot of talk from our friends in the Liberal and Country Parties about centralism. The most centralised form of government in this country is to be found in the State sphere. I speak as a former member of a municipal council with 10 years experience in local government. I know from personal experience that it is virtually impossible for a local government body to initiate programs on its own behalf. The Local Government Act in Victoria is the largest piece of legislation in the Victorian statute book. Every single thing that a local government body can do is controlled by that Act. How much more centralist can one get? The 
Government believes that there should be a full and proper partnership between the 3 levels of government- local, State and Federal. I believe that the State governments are far too jealous of the power that they have over local government and that the time has come for a change. One of the ways in which that change will be initiated is by this Government- the national governmenttaking the bit between its teeth and negotiating programs of change. 
One of the problems to be found in urban living today is the disposal of garbage. It has become a tremendous problem in the Western world as countries have become more and more engaged in producing packaging and the various other things which cause a great amount of garbage to mount up. If we are to preserve the ecology and if we are to preserve resources which are of great value not only to the Australian community but to the world as a whole, we will have to do something about this matter. Through area improvement programs and through grants made through the Grants Commission money is being made available for transfer stations for garbage disposal. Because of that and other programs that the Government has initiated, I believe that there will be possibilities in the future for the recycling of a great deal of the materials which at present are buried or burned. 
One of the programs which have been initiated by the Government under the auspices of the Department of Urban and Regional Development is the making of grants concerning the National Estate. In relation to my electorate of Diamond Valley grants have already been made for the preservation of valuable buildings and sites which have a meaning to the people in the area and which ought to be preserved not only for the people in the area but also for the people who can come to see them. If we are to have problems with the motor car, let us at least use it properly. 
That leads me to a point which I wish to make as a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. In a report entitled 'Roads and their Environment' which was tabled recently, that Committee pointed out that one of the ways in which we can reduce the number of road accidents in Australia is by proper urban planning. I wish to refer to some of the things mentioned in the report. The Committee said that modern, safer guidelines and land usage aimed at minimising travel and the reduction of exposure to accident are important. We need to design residential areas so that people are exposed much less frequently to the motor car. That not only saves lives but also is much less expensive. I said the other day that I had been told by members of the land development industry in Australia that it costs more than $8,000 to service a block of land. In Canberra land costs only a little over $5,000. By planning our urban areas we can save a great deal of money. Cluster housing, for instance, costs a great deal less. The Apollo Parkways Estate near Greensborough in my electorate and the Crestwood Estate in Western Australia are 2 outstanding examples of the modified Radburn system under which children can walk to school - 
. . . and go out into the play areas that are provided without once having to cross a road. I will ignore the inane interjections from members of the Australian Country Party, except to say that if they were really interested in saving lives in Australia they would listen to what is being said and try to support programs which are aimed at making residential areas a great deal safer than they are at present. I commend the Minister, his staff and his Department for what they are doing for urban development in Australia. 
-I present the third report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Health. The Minister will be aware of the report tabled in the House recently of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works concerning the proposed radiation laboratory. He will be aware also of the concern felt by some of my constituents about the project. Can he inform the House whether there has been an evaluation of the suggestions which I have made regarding the siting of the laboratory? If so, what has been the outcome of that consideration? 
I listened with interest to the thoughtful contribution of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  He has had considerable experience in the field of housing. Some words that he used a moment ago caught my attention. He said that the Bill cannot stand alone. I think that he is correct, but it only goes to point out that this Bill cannot be considered in isolation. I would like him to reflect on the fact that this Bill proposes to do certain things. Therefore I do not believe that the criticism that links in everything else in the housing field is particularly valid. For instance the honourable member for Lilley said that it was all right if people were lucky enough to obtain the money. That is true as far as it goes. But of course the fact is that certain people in society find it much more difficult to obtain money for housing than do others. 
With all matters where governments provide funds, in social services and in other matters, there is always a cut-off point. For instance, someone may earn 5c a week more than would entitle that person to be eligible for a pension and that person cannot get the pension because he is earning over the amount specified. This has happened before and I think that consideration has been given not only by this Government but also by previous governments to tapering off means tests and so on. But it is obviously much easier for people who are in receipt of a more substantial income to provide housing for themselves and their families. It seemed to me that the honourable member for Lilley was somewhat in conflict with the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay). 
-I shall just point out that the honourable member for Lilley was in conflict because he congratulated the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  saying that the Minister by dint of hard work and persuasion managed to persuade the Government to provide money at 4 per cent interest. But the honourable member for Boothby complained, saying that in his opinion there should not be differential rates of interest on money provided in this way. I suggest that the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Boothby ought to get together and work out their differences. The speech of the honourable member for Lilley was also somewhat in contrast to the speech of the honourable member for 
Boothby. I heard the honourable member for Boothby use such pejorative terms as 'socialist' and 'centralist'. I might just as well stand here and say that the former government and the members of the Opposition Parties are in favour of a capitalist and unco-ordinated approach. These sorts of terms of disapproval do not get us anywhere but it seems they are becoming much more common lately. 
I accept democratic socialism but the honourable member for Boothby did not use the term in that way; he used it in a pejorative sense and I do not think that it adds to proper argument and debate in this Parliament. The honourable member for Lilley also mentioned interest rates. I should like to point out to the House that interest rates are directly related to the inflation in the money market. If inflation is running at, say, 15 per cent and money at an interest rate of 10 per cent is obtained, the person obtaining that money at that rate is in fact getting the money at a negative interest rate of 5 per cent. In fact people who have enough money to get into the system, people who are earning a bit more money, can in fact use the system. The problem seems to me to arise when the drain on the liquid resources of the individual are such that he has not enough money to meet his requirements at a particular time. 
The policies announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last night, providing additional funds and making tax cuts, will help this situation and I believe that the additional money will flow through to the housing industry. The Minister for Housing and Construction pointed out in his second reading speech that the purpose of these 2 Bills is, firstly, to enable the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to appropriate $3 10m for welfare housing in 1974-75 and, secondly, to make certain amendments to the 1973 Housing Agreement. The most significant feature of these measures is the massive increase in the allocation to be made available to the States this year. An amount of $3 18m is to be made available in 1974-75. This is an increase of $1 16m over the amount spent by the States in 1973-74- an increase of more than 60 per cent. But more significantly, it is almost double the amount spent during the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government-$318m in 1974-75 as against $ 162m in 1972-73. 
This comparison, more than anything else, illustrates the commitment which this Labor Government has to housing families of limited financial means. It contrasts with the approach taken by our predecessors who had, I believe, a rather callous and cruel belief that those who, because of their limited means, would otherwise be left homeless, should be left to fend for themselves. It is one thing to criticise this Bill on the basis that there is a cut-off point; it is quite another thing to say that we should not provide any money at all because to do so would differentiate. The system itself unfortunately discriminates between individuals. 
To the Liberals Commonwealth and State Housing Agreements were regarded as an unfortunate legacy of the Chifley Labor Governmenta legacy which they wanted to let languish. The new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement negotiated by the Minister in the early months of the Labor Government's administration ushered in a new era in housing for the underprivileged. Yet even now the Liberals still want to return to the days when welfare housing was accorded a low priority. Only the other day the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Monday Conference' advocated an across the board cut of 8 per cent in all Commonwealth Government expenditures. The amount included in the Budget Speech for the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was $235m- in other words the amount agreed to in June of this year before the 11 October meeting of Housing Ministers when an additional $75m was allocated by the Australian Government. This means that the amount the Opposition wants to cut by 8 per cent is the original $23Sm. If members of the Opposition had their way the Australian Government would this year allocate only $2 16m instead of the $3 18m which we will allocate this financial year. 
Surely the Opposition must realise that the people who will be assisted by this money are the people who are in most need, the people I mentioned before, people who are desperate to gain decent accommodation, people who under 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government were consigned to ever-lengthening waiting lists, people who had no hope of relief from a Government which had little compassion for their particular and desperate problems. But these are the people whose hopes would be dashed by this latest example of short-sighted economy and cheap politicking by those people opposite. If the Australian Government carried out the policy of the Liberal Party 5,000 families this year alone would be deprived of a chance to get a decent home. These people are the people whom this 
Government wants to help, the same people who were denied housing and hope for 23 years. 
The Opposition's proposed cuts in housing illustrate not only its callousness but also its inconsistency. In one breath it talks about restimulating the housing industry and in the next breath it talks about cut-backs. So, too, from time to time members of the Opposition talk about the alleged raw deal this Government is giving to the States. I point out that the Victorian Government failed to spend $8m of last year's allocation. If the Opposition had its way the States this year would receive $102m less for welfare housing than they will in fact receive. Again the Opposition attacks this Government for its supposed disinterest in home ownership. In fact, if we look at the record, this Government has done more to foster home ownership than any of its predecessors did. If we look at the allocations under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement to the Home Builders Account the evidence for this claim is clear and unmistakable. 
I remind the House that allocations to the Home Builders Account are channelled to terminating building societies for lending to home buyers at highly concessional interest rates of  5%  per cent. As I pointed out before, in a time of inflation, which is occurring, such rates are a very real concession to those people. This year the allocation for this purpose- that is, low interest finance for home ownership- will be $127m, an increase of $56m over 1973-74 and an increase of $71m from 1972-73. This amounts to an increase of 126 per cent from the Liberal Party's last year of government. Even allowing for inflation, this is certainly a big increase in real terms. These figures show that the Opposition's argument that Labor is hostile to home ownership is quite false. But they certainly do prove that home ownership for low income families was a nonexistent priority for the last Liberal-Country Party Government. The facts speak for themselves and cannot be denied by honourable members opposite. 
The many other initiatives of this Government to assist home ownership are further proof of the emptiness of the Opposition's claim. The Government's introduction of tax deductibility for mortgage interest repayments will significantly assist every home buyer. I remind the House that although the scheme will apply from 1 July 1974, it will be introduced on a payasyouearn basis from 1 January 1975. So as from the first pay period after 1 January the amount that will be channelled into pay packets will be double the amount it would have been if the tax rebates were spread over the full year. I remind the House that the Opposition has been strangely silent on this scheme. I would like to hear what Opposition members have to say about it. They denigrated it, of course, when it was first proposed and compared it with the housing grant that was given previously, but I have not heard very much from them lately. The reason is quite obvious; our new scheme is much better and provides much more. I believe that, once and for all, the Opposition members should state unequivocally whether this scheme would be one of their victims of the expenditure cutbacks which they have been proposing. 
Only yesterday we witnessed another example of this Government's support for home ownership and for the home building industry. I refer to the $150m to be channelled to the savings banks to facilitate a speedy upswing in the level of housing commencements. I might also add that even when the low level of commencements for the last quarter are considered- a level which the Government regards as far too low and which it is taking strong action to reverse- the number of commencements since December 1972 is far greater than the number for the same period before December 1972. 1 mentioned this when I was speaking on the estimates for the Department of Housing and Construction. In the 7 quarters since 1972 over 287,000 dwellings have been commenced. In the 7 quarters preceding the end of 1972 only 260,000 dwellings were commenced. So there has been an improvement in real terms. 
I need only outline very quickly some of the other initiatives taken by this Government to facilitate home ownership. The task force on modern housing techniques will have considerable impact on the Australian housing industry in the years to come. It will have a particular impact on the cost of housing and therefore on the ability of Australians to obtain a home of their own. A builder in my electorate who has already won prizes for home construction and design is at present experimenting with modular construction using plywood as the inside lining of the house, the outside of which is treated in a similar way to a brick veneer house. These are some of the developments that are occurring. This Government has established this task force. It is a continuing body and it will be actively looking at new building techniques. I believe that the Australian public will get a great deal of advantage from it. I applaud the Minister for his initiative. As he well knows, I have been talking to him lately not only on this project but also on the use of urban bricks, which used to be called mud bricks. The ones in which the people in my electorate are interested are extruded. 
I support the Bill, but I am pleased to see that the members of the Opposition are also supporting it. I stress again that the money provided in it is for particular and special tasks. If the Opposition wants to argue about other factors concerned with housing, then let it do so, but not on the basis of this Bill, which is designed to do something for people who were not catered for in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government and for whom this Government is now catering in a proper and useful way. 
As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has said, the Australian Radiation Laboratory which is to be constructed in my electorate under the motion which is before the House is to maintain standards for the precise measurement of radiation, to procure and distribute radio-pharmaceuticals and to maintain a surveillance of the levels of radio activity in the Australian environment. When the proposal was first mooted various organisations and people in my electorate were concerned, first of all, about the possibility of radiation leaks and, secondly, about the aesthetics and planning of the area. I have had an opportunity to study the evidence which was given to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I attended meetings of the Committee and heard the answers which were given by, among other people,  Mr Stevens,  who is the Director of the Australian Radiation Laboratory, and I am satisfied in my own mind that the levels of radiation from the proposed establishment are such that there is no measurable danger to people from radioactivity In fact, the resiting of the laboratory from the present buildings is to the advantage of the community insofar as the new building will be of such a design and character that, if there was any concern about the existing facilities, there would be no concern about the new buildings. 
I have some reservations about the planning aspects of the building. Perhaps honourable members would not be aware that in the area of my electorate where it is proposed to construct the Laboratory, and in fact over most of the electorate, there is very little industry of any character. The site of the proposed bunding is in an area under the control of the Army in the Watsonia army camp. It is presently headquarters of the Royal Australian Corps of Signals for the whole of Australia. There are a number of buildings which can roughly be regarded as buildings of an industrial or commercial character. These are set well back on the site. One of the objections which I have personally to the actual site which has been chosen from the area available is that I feel that more thought could have been given, if we were to use that area of land for such an establishment, to siting the building further away from existing residential development and in fact away from the boundaries of the area. The buildings which are occupied by the Army, some of which are of considerable extent, are well away from residential establishments and give no offence. In fact I take the opportunity of congratulating the Army for the way in which it has developed the site. 
I believe that this area needs to be considered by the relevant authorities, perhaps the Department of Defence, and an overall plan drawn up for its eventual development. At one end of the site houses were recently constructed for Army personnel. I am somewhat concerned that over a period of time areas of this land may be used for all sorts of government purposes until such time as it is eaten up entirely without leaving any breathing space, which I think is needed in that part of the Melbourne metropolitan area. I would ask the relevant departments and the relevant Ministers to look at this aspect. 
I have made representations to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  whose Department has made the necessary recommendations on the establishment of this Laboratory, asking that other sites which I felt were not considered by either the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works or the Department itself be looked at. The Minister has obtained a report from the Department as to the possibility of siting the proposed buildings north of the Tullamarine Airport In answer to the question which I asked in the House on Tuesday morning the Minister said that the matter had been looked at and that it was felt that the disadvantages of the site north of Tullamarine outweighed the advantages. I am not altogether convinced about this. I feel that because of the proximity to the freeway of the area north of Tullamarine Airport perhaps that site would have been better. I seek the permission of the House to have incorporated in Hansard the question I asked and the answer given. 
It was interesting to hear the remarks of honourable members on the other side of the House. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  spent a good deal of his time talking about inflation while the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  tried to make out a case for nongovernment schools as though they were particularly disadvantaged by this Bill. In fact the figures in the Budget statements show quite clearly that talk of this nature is completely off key. For instance, the Opposition when in government provided in 1972-73, the last year for which it drew up the Budget, $47.8m. The next year, the first year of the Whitlam Labor Government, $70.2m was provided and the estimated expenditure for this year is $ 120.9m. Honourable members can easily see that these increases are far in excess of increases through inflation. 
The honourable member for Mallee did not mention that under the Liberal-Country Party Government country areas were not provided with funds by way of assistance for isolated children. This Government has provided a substantial amount of money in this area and this year has provided $ 1 1 .6m. 
-This is part of a continuing program and this money is provided in the Budget. The Government has introduced this Bill to provide the necessary money for the States. Any talk about not keeping up with inflation is just so much hogwash. 
The figures are there. The 'haw, haw' from the other side does not take account of the facts. I wish honourable members opposite would talk facts when they talk about inflation. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in his remarks before lunch said that he saw great virtue in diversity of education and I agree entirely with him. He went on to say that parents should have the right to choose. Again I agree with him. However, I point out to the honourable member for Moreton and to honourable members generally on the other side of the House that the right to choose is also qualified by the ability to choose. There are many parents who might like their sons and daughters to have the advantages that some other children have. They might like their children to go to Melbourne Grammar or to Tinturn or to any of the other well known schools around Australia, but they have not the wherewithal to spend on that. A lot of these parents are prevented from exercising the choice they would like to exercise because of the expense involved. This Government's policy is aimed at breaking down the financial barriers which so often have meant that children have been denied a full and proper education. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  was a teacher and so was I. I have mentioned before in this House the terrible conditions under which some children in Victoria and all over Australia suffer because proper educational facilities are not provided. If there is one thing I and other honourable members on this side of the House are sure about it is that money which is provided in this Bill and in the Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  will enable an improvement to be made. This Bill updates the provisions contained in the States Grants (Schools) Acts of 1 972 and 1 973 and is in accordance with the recommendation contained in the report of the Karmel Committee. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  mentioned these figures before, but I think they ought to be mentioned again. The Bill provides an additional $64.47m in recurrent grants and $ 14.43m in capital grants. Government schools will receive $35.6m in recurrent grants and $1 1.83m in capital grants while non-government schools will receive an additional $23.67m in recurrent grants and $2.5 lm in capital grants. Then there is the other amount that the honourable member for Holt mentioned- $8.29mwhich will be provided for both government and non-government schools. 
It is important that the programs which this Government has initiated be maintained in the face of cost increases. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that if the Opposition parties were in a position to implement their proposal that Government expenditure be cut by 8 per cent, the amount made available to schools and pre-schools and for child care facilities would be cut by approximately $44.43m. The honourable member can check this by doing a simple percentage calculation. The amount provided for special groups such as Aborigines, migrants, soldiers' children and isolated children, will be cut by $5.46m and if the amount payable to colleges of" advanced education and teachers' colleges were included in the 8 per cent, expenditure in these areas would be cut by $25.6m. Honourable members can easily see that after making allowance for expenditure not directly related to primary and secondary schools the amount by which expenditure is proposed to be cut is about equal to the amount provided under this Bill. 
The fact remains, however one looks at the figures and whatever arguments one puts forward either against or in support of what this Government is doing, that this Government is providing a great deal of money that was not provided before and the amount being provided does take account of inflation. The Government is providing the basis for a real improvement in educational standards in this country. One would think that if money is being provided to the States- as it is- the States would be a little less parsimonious in the things they do. It has come to my attention recently, in a letter written to me by one of my constituents, that the Victorian Government .is interpreting the regulations on confinement leave in a very restrictive way. The teacher who wrote to me is expecting her first child early in May and because of the interpretation being put on the regulations she will be required to retire on 1 January 1975. This means that she misses out on a substantial amount of holiday pay which would otherwise be due to her. The various teachers unions have taken this matter up with the State Department of Education but so far with very little success. The present problems and the present conditions are these: A woman teacher must cease work 4 months before or, if the approval of the Minister is given, 2 months before the expected date of delivery. Up till now the approval of the Minister has always been given but at the moment it is being denied. Before the Minister can exercise his discretion in this matter a woman must have a medical certificate saying that she is fit to work for 2 months more and a letter from the principal saying he wants her to continue teaching. The Minister for Education in Victoria,  Mr Thompson,  is refusing to exercise his discretion. This attitude is not even in accordance with the regulations that are otherwise applied in Victoria, because the Victorian Public Service Board regulation on maternity and paternity leave states: 
A female officer or employee who produces to the Permanent Head a certificate of a legally qualified medical practitioner stating that she is pregnant and specifying the day on which it is expected that she will be delivered- 
shall be required to take leave as follows: 
for a period commencing six weeks prior to the expected date of delivery . . . 
I will not read out the whole regulation, but honourable members can see that if these provisions were applied the situation would be much less restrictive than it is at present. 
The Technical Teachers Association of Victoria, for instance, has taken the matter up with the Victorian Minister. The Association wrote to the Acting Minister for Education,  Mr Dixon,  putting the following matters to him: 
The practice of your Department in refusing pregnant teachers to avail themselves of their sick leave credits when suffering from sickness or illness associated with or arising from pregnancy. 
The practice of your Department in writing to teachers' medical practitioners without their knowledge or authority, seeking additional details relating to cause or nature of illness. 
The failure of your Government to grant female teachers confinement leave on full pay and male teachers similar provisions to enable them to properly care for their family during the absence of the mother while awaiting and following the birth of an additional child. 
This may seem to be a small matter. But the woman teacher who raised this matter with me had a large number of sick leave credits. She had had very little time off work over a number of years. It seems to me to be a poor state of affairs when a State Government which is being supplied with additional funds from the Australian Government should seek to interpret the regulations in this sort of way. 
This Bill provides additional finance to do the sorts of things which this Government has set out to do. I draw to the attention of honourable members also the article which appeared in the'Australian Financial Review' today. As the time for debate is limited, I do not intend to go into that matter. But I invite honourable members to read the article which appears on pages 1 and 4 of that newspaper, setting out some aspects of the situation that is occurring with respect to State government expenditure on education. It is most difficult for the Australian Government to know precisely what is happening with the funds. We feel a responsibility to provide money for the education of children at the primary and secondary levels and also in other areas at all levels. We shall continue to provide that money. It is useless for the Opposition to say as it so often seems to say that inflation is eating up the money provided. The Opposition has only to do a few simple arithmetical sums to see that this Government is providing money which was not provided before and that the children of Australia will benefit. 
The Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill continues the program which the Government has laid down in 2 Budgets, various statements and other Bills which have been presented to the House. This is an important development. Under this Bill a considerable amount of the money which is to be made available for sewerage will be in the form of a non-repayable grant. This is important because municipalities which control sewerage programs and sewerage authorities in the major capital cities need assistance to overcome the backlog which has built up over the years. Most of the matters contained in this legislation are interrelated. It is impossible not to relate sewerage to land development. In the past land has been subdivided without any thought for the community development which would ultimately surround it. Just after the war subdividers in Melbourne drew lines on maps and sold the land. There were no roads or sewerage. Often water and electricity were not available. We have certainly gone a long way since then. 
I point out to the House that land development is becoming increasingly expensive as time goes on. Recently I had an opportunity of talking to people concerned with land development and they informed me that in some locations the development of each block of land costs about $8,000. As a community we will have to look very carefully at the way in which we develop areas of land for housing and for development generally. One of the things that I hope will result from the land commissions and the development of land for residential purposes is that people will be persuaded to give serious consideration to high density living. A quarter-acre block or a one-fifth acre block with a house on it has become the ideal of most people. I suggest to honourable members that this is not necessarily the best form of urban living and that it is possible, by the use of cluster housing, town houses and flats of various sorts, to make the best possible use of land and to make it much less expensive from the point of view of the development costs of both roads and service connections. It will also provide a much more pleasant type of living. Areas of open space in which children can play can often be built into such areas. I am pleased that this Bill follows the Government's stated intention of making money available for land commissions because I think it is up to public authorities to set a lead in this field. 
I am also pleased that money has been made available under the National Estate program. Australians are coming to realise that there are many valuable buildings and many open space areas of interest in this country that need to be preserved for the benefit of the people. It goes without saying that it is impossible for any governmernt to buy everything that the comm.munity would like to preserve. For instance, in my own city of Melbourne it is not possible to buy all the land that the community would like to see acquired along the Yarra River valley. The only way to approach such matters is to provide money for open space areas for active and passive recreation and, at the same time, introduce legislation to enable the preservation of those areas. This must be primarily the responsibility of the various States. 
I am pleased that in many States legislation is being introduced to preserve buildings of value and to enable land to be preserved in its natural, undeveloped state. Unless there is this sort of control we will find that our river valleys, forests and other places which should be preserved in the national interest will be swallowed up by people who wish to make some money out of them. There is nothing wrong with making money out of land development but I think that, as a community, we have to make sure that it is done in the right way. The sum of $5,748,000 is to be provided in this legislation under the 
National Estate program. Although it is not possible to make as much money available as many of us would like, this is a considerable increase on the expenditure last year. In my own electorate Schramm's cottage was preserved by a grant last year. I am sure that the people of the Doncaster and surrounding areas will make very good use of this link with the past. 
The stated intention of the legislation is to make our cities more pleasant places in which to live. As a community we are coming to realise much more that we can design cities which are pleasant. Albury-Wodonga is important- as are Monarto and other places- because it leads the way. I hope to see many more cities developed in the future. If Albury-Wodonga is a success- it gives every indication that it will be, and the cooperation of the New South Wales and Victorian Governments with the Australian Government leads one to believe that this is so- in the future we will see many more cities both on the State borders and within the various States. The money that has been made available to growth centres is also very important. We must make sure that we do not become a country of huge metropolitan areas, that we provide the necessary facilities in country areas to make life pleasant there, and that we provide the necessary health and education facilities in areas such as Geelong, Wangaratta and many other places in the various States. This can be done if we plan it properly. By so doing we will prevent metropolitan areas growing beyond the ability of town planners and various other authorities to organise proper living within them. Already Melbourne is probably too big in many ways. The sprawl has continued beyond what many of us would like to see. But the natural growth will carry it even further, although the estimate of 5 million people in the city of Melbourne has now been revised. I hope that we will be able to be kept under 4 million. 
We also need to look at the possibility of developing new designs for cities that take account of the fact that we live in a much more mobile society and that people like to be able to travel from one place to another. The way in which we design cities is very important. Many things could be said about land development, urban development generally and the matters which are provided for in this Bill, but if we keep in mind the fact that this Bill is designed not only to provide money but also to assist co-operation between the States and the Australian Governmentthis is a very necessary priority in a modern society- then I believe we will be moving along much further with what we wish to do. 
Yesterday this House agreed to legislation concerning the provision of money for, among other things, National Estate projects. Some time ago I suggested to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that assistance could be provided to preserve the Regent Theatre. This matter has been one of great controversy for some considerable time- in fact, ever since the Melbourne City Council decided as part of its city square project, to go ahead with the development of that area. Among other things, it bought the Regent Theatre in Melbourne which has since closed down. A considerable number of citizens of Melbourne have been most concerned that this Theatre could be lost. In the 'Save the Regent Theatre Campaign' newsletter of September this year it states:  'The theatres- 
That is the Regent Theatre and the Plaza Theatre-  are part of the State's heritage and should be preserved''they are an outstanding example of Hollywood's boom period'- 'the Trust considers they should be preserved, restored and re-opened as theatres' . . . 
The Trust referred to is the National Trust. The National Trust was told that the Regent Theatre  was a wreck. Among the terms used was the statement that it was in a state of partial demolition. Of course it did not take very long, once the Trust realised that the situation which had been represented to it was quite false, for the Trust to decide to put the Regent Theatre back on its list of 20th Century buildings worthy of preservation. On 2 1 August  Mr Rodney  Davidson on behalf of the National Trust is reported to have stated: 
And the National Trust announced yesterday it had reclassified the theatres as 'an outstanding example of the grand theatres of Hollywood's boom period' . . . 

 Mr Davidson said that when the proposed redevelopment of the City Square site did not proceed, the Trust reexamined the theatres to see if they were still worthy of preservation. 'Information available at the time indicated that the theatres were in a dilapidated and extensively damaged condition and they were removed from the register solely because of their condition.'. . . . 
However, the Trust's expert committee had inspected the theatres again last month at the request of the Save the Regent Committee. 'The inspection, which was carried out in absolute detail, showed that the damage was not substantial, that previous reports were incorrect and that the theatres should be put back on the register' . . . 
That is a statement by  Mr Rodney  Davidson, the  chairman  of the National Trust. A smokescreen has been put up about this matter. One hesitates to draw conclusions from what has been done as to the motives of some people involved in the matter or as to why this smokescreen has been put up. But I point out to the House that the cultural centre project, which has my complete support and I believe the support of the Save the Regent Theatre Campaign, is a large complex which will cost a great deal of money. In this case that may run into something like $40m, although people have said that the Regent Theatre will cost $10m to restore whereas the new cultural centre in Melbourne will cost only $10m. I think that both figures are exaggerated from different ends of the scale. But when we talk about a great deal of money people tend to feel worried about what will happen in a situation in which they are personally involved. As I say, I believe that Melbourne needs both the new cultural centre and the Regent Theatre. I will not have time in the 10 minutes which is available to a member of this House on a Grievance Day debate to go in detail through the report from Clarke Gazzard Planners Pty Ltd, but I seek the leave of the House to incorporate the relevant section so that honourable members will have an expert opinion and not just my opinion. 
Yes. 
-I thank the House. I shall mention one or two things in relation to the report. Clarke Gazzard Planners Pty Ltd say in their report: 
We realise that Council bought the Regent Theatre property four years ago with the clear intention of demolishing it. But circumstances can and have changed both in the law and in public attitudes and we would be remiss in our professional duty to the Council if we did not re-examine this option. 
Later on the report says: 
Considering all the above factors we must concur with Messrs Southgate and Knowlands considered opinion that the Regent Theatre is quite suitable for all types of theatre except orchestral concerts, chamber music recitals and intimate drama. 
One could hardly hold chamber music concerts or intimate drama in a building that will seat well over 3,000 people. The report continues: 
Its best uses would be for spectacle theatre (Australian Ballet, State Dance Company of Victoria, Russian Georgian Dancers, Slansk Polish Dance Troupe, Chinese Acrobats, Rock Operas like Hair and Superstar, etc., Traditional Opera, Pop Concerts, the Melbourne Film Festival - 
Some people may not like pop concerts. I never go to them but I recognise that not everybody's taste in music is the same. 
Cultural facilities ought to be looked at in the widest possible way. If anybody has been to the Festival Hall in Melbourne I am sure that they will agree with me that the acoustics there are absolutely terrible. It is only because the music is greatly amplified that people manage to hear anything at all. The report also mentions that in Great Britain there are no theatres of this type left. It says: 
The National Trust in New South Wales has also classified 2 similar theatres of that period- the State Theatre in Market Street and the Roxy at Parramatta. The Report on the State Theatre sums up by saying: 'It is a major building of its type. The Cinema Baroque style found little favour in the UK and this cinema forms a direct link with the great Picture Palaces of the USA. It is a monument to the movie culture of the twenties that influenced the life-style of millions of Australians, the skill of local artists, craftsmen and engineers of the period and the exuberance of that fabulous and foolish decade . . . John Betjeman has stated that none so splendid, indeed none of its kind, survive in Great Britain.' 
The writer could well be talking of the Regent Theatre in Melbourne which is an equally good example of the style. 
This project has received support from a large number of people. The patrons of the Save the Regent Theatre Campaign include Dame Joan Hammond, Gladys Moncrieff, Anna Russell, Joan Sutherland, Ronald Farren-Price,  Sir Bernard  Heinz,  Sir Robert  Helpmann Professor Leon Kellaway and John Williams. Many other organisations and people have pledged their support to preserve the Regent Theatre. I ask leave to have a list of the names of these organisations and persons incorporated in Hansard. 
-I present the Fourth Report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
House adjourned at 11.8 p.m. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a report that the Australian Labor Party is interfering in the proper working of the Party system in this House? Will the Prime Minister assure the House that this accusation has no foundation in fact? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Were 4 new nursing care wards opened at Mount Royal Hospital in October-November 1 973. 
If so, was any Australian Government finance made available for the building of these new wards under any federal legislation; if so, what legislation. 
Was there any specific provision under this legislation requiring that these facilities were to be provided for aged persons without means. 
If so, how many beds in these new wards have been 
allocated to and (b) used for aged persons without means since they were opened until now. 
How many beds in these new wards have been allocated as (a) public, (b) intermediate and (c) private. 
How many beds are currently being used as (a) public, 
intermediate and (c) private. 
Who has the authority to determine this proportion. 
How many beds have there been in each of these new wards available for patients since they were opened. 
Before I commence what I have to say in this debate this morning perhaps I should indicate that I believe that the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has done this House and the people who are disadvantaged because they are deaf a great service in pointing out to us the situation which exists because there is no doubt that these people are very much isolated in our society. I rise in this grievance debate to speak about something which is probably more serious for the parliamentary institution than anything else. I believe that there can be no more serious grievance in a parliament than feeling that the institution itself is placed in jeopardy. I believe that at the present time this feeling is held by members on both sides of the House. The action of the New South Wales Premier and his Cabinet in deciding to appoint to the Senate a person belonging either to the Liberal Party or the Country Party as a result of the vacancy caused by the appointment of the Honourable Lionel Murphy to the High Court is something that flouts the convention which has grown up and has been applied almost universally since Federation and certainly has been applied universally since the adoption of proportional representation. 
The Westminster system of democracy depends on 2 things. It depends on a set of rules that have grown up and which to some extent are written into statutes, standing orders and other documents, and are observed by parliaments of all sorts. The system also depends upon the custom or the convention concerning appointments. The appointment of a member of the same party to replace a senator who retires or dies is a convention which has been adopted universally since 1949. 1 believe that it will be very much to the discredit of democracy in this country if this convention is not followed in this instance. It is not just a matter of having the numbers in the Senate because if convention is going to be altered in this way and we can get into a situation where people are appointed at the whim of various State Premiers or State Cabinets, where the political circumstances of the day decide how appointments are to be made and in what numbers, then the very fabric of our democracy will be in danger. 
One would think that the people who are proposing this step would have the most to lose. Surely they are the people in our society who stand for the status quo, who stand for convention and who stand for the rule of law. Surely they are the people more than anyone else who would want to preserve the custom and convention of our parliamentary democracy, but no, in this case, as unfortunately in many other cases they have decided to disregard the convention. Liberal and Country Party voters must be most disturbed about this situation because as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  pointed out, once you start to break the rules then the rule book goes out the door. No one can argue then that it ought not to be done because convention or laws say that it ought not to be done. The other day the Premier of Queensland was quoted on a news program as saying: 'Oh, but that does not apply any more'. To what extent will that sort of argument be extended. Of course, the argument used by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  on this occasion to justify his flagrant breach of convention and rule is: 'The Government acted improperly in appointing the Honourable Lionel Murphy to the High Court'. 
As the honourable member for Robertson pointed out, former governments have appointed to the High Court members of this Parliament and other people who were known for their conservative views. Personally, I find nothing of concern in that, because that is the way the system operates. I do not like it and I would seek to change it. I would want to educate my fellow Australians to my point of view. But if I could not do that I would be prepared to abide by the rules, because once one stops doing that then everyone is in danger. Likewise, I have no particular objection to the appointments which were made by previous Liberal-Country Party governments. I have here a list of people who were appointed by previous governments. The list was supplied in an answer by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to a question asked by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  last year. 
-I will come to  Senator Gair  in a moment because all that that subject does is illustrate the point I am making at this stage. The list is too long to read but if honourable members would like to look it up they will find it in Hansard of 9 April last year. The list includes such distinguished persons as the Right Honourable  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Chief Justice of Australia; the Honourable  Sir Howard  Beale; the Honourable D. A. Cameron, the Honourable F. C. Chaney; and the former member for part of the area which I now represent in this House,  Mr F.  J. Davis. I could go on. The list includes party officials, senators and ex-senators. It also includes the Right Honourable  Sir Paul  Hasluck, a former Governor-General of Australia. All those people were either distinguished office holders in the Liberal Party or the Country Party or were distinguished members or senators of this Parliament. I find no objection to that. What I do find objectionable is the complete hypocrisy of some of the members of this House and some of the leader writers in the newspapers. Most of those people have done a distinguished job in their appointments. I am not concerned about them at all. An honourable member opposite mentioned  Senator Gair  before.  His  appointment was completely in accordance with tradition and custom. 
Honourable members opposite do not like it but the facts are here in the answer to this question concerning what was done in the past by previous governments of their own ilk.  Senator Gair  was appointed to his position in accordance with the custom that had grown up and also in accordance with the Constitution. At the next election- whether it had been for the House of Representatives or the Senate- his vacancy would have come before the people of Queensland. Then the decision would have been made. If the double dissolution had not occurred the person appointed to fill  Senator Gair's  vacancy in the Senate would have been a member of the Democratic Labor Party. No one doubts that. But it was the political concern that at the next election, because there would have been 3 vacancies on each side, in the normal circumstances the Labor Party would have filled 3 vacancies in Queensland. That is what worried honourable members opposite. It was the political circumstances that worried them and nothing else. 
It was the objective of the Opposition to flout every constitutional precedent that had been laid down so that it could grab the reins of government in this country, with complete disregard for what the people of Australia had decided before. The very proof of what I am saying is that the people of Australia agreed with the Labor Party when it went to the people in 1974 and they returned this Government. Not one honourable member opposite has ever been satisfied to accept the decision of the people of Australia. It is time that the people of Australia realised that some of the people who sit opposite- not all of them- and some of the people who back them are not prepared to accept democracy in Australia as we have come to know it. The Opposition will accept the rules only if they suit it. If they do not suit, the Opposition will flout them. It will go to any lengths to stop these things coming into operation so that the Opposition can keep the power which it desires, so that it can stop the reforms which the people of Australia want and so that democracy in Australia can no longer be viable as we all hope it could be. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction will recall informing the House that consideration was being given to changing the means test under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I ask: Has a decision been made and, if so, what effect will it have? 
It is rather difficult to follow the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  without mentioning his electorate of Parramatta but also answering some of the matters he raised in regard to his electorate. I hope that we will not continue to look at this Bill and carry on the discussion in quite such a parochial way, although I feel that if we are to consider what this Bill will do for the arts in Australia we must look at it at a local level also. I should like to say also in reply to the criticism of the honourable member for Parramatta concerning the delay in presenting this Bill that some sections of the arts world have criticised the fact that this Bill even now has come on too soon. The fact that the Whitlam Government created arts boards and created positive assistance for the arts so very early in the life of the Government, I think provided first of all the incentive for people to get out and participate and to take a much greater interest in the ans, but also the time interval which has elapsed has enabled people to think about the Bill and give consideration to it. I do not think that we have either moved too quickly or have been too slow in considering the measures which are contained in this Bill, and I think there is general agreement in the House on the need for the Bill and the things that it provides. 
One matter that I would like to stress is that the Australian Council is independent from day to day government. When he was speaking earlier the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said that he felt that his Party would not like to see the Council consist of itinerant and ignorant friends of government. If I can look at it generously, I think that he meant the government of the day and not necessarily this Government. I do not disagree with the honourable member for Curtin, as to that remark, but I would point out to him, as I believe the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  pointed out in his speech, that under a clause of the Bill at least one-half of those people who are to be appointed to the Council- that is people other than those who are representing particular aspects of the arts- must be people who have some active interest in the arts. After all, most of us are the consumers, the audience, of arts in Australia. I think the ordinary consumer, the ordinary person in society, ought to be represented on such an important body as the Austraiian Council. 
But anybody who looks at this Bill objectively must recognise that the various aspects of the arts as such, all the creative expression which embodies arts in Australia, are more than adequately provided for in the Bill. The people who produce, the creative spirits, will have the major say in the direction in which we are going in the arts in Australia; but there will be a leavening of people who are the consumers, who are the audience, people who are not directly associated with the arts. So at least a balanced viewpoint will be given. It has been my experience from being involved with bodies associated with the arts that most of the decisions that are made are not made because people have some particular point of view to put but rather that a consensus is reached after a pretty wide discussion. Therefore it becomes more important that the people who are to be involved should have some wide knowledge. 
I think it is important to mention the functions of the Council. I should like to read from clause 5, which sets out the functions of the Council, because I think it is important that we all realise how wide-ranging a body the Australian Council will be. First of all, its functions are: 
to formulate and carry out policies designed- 
to promote excellence in the arts; 
to provide, and encourage the provision of, opportunities for persons to practise the arts; 
to promote the appreciation, understanding and enjoyment of the arts; 
to promote the general application of the arts in the community; 
to foster the expression of a national identity by means of the arts; 
I think this is very important. The honourable member for Franklin mentioned that at one stage he had to leave Australia to practise his particular branch of the arts. People were not prepared, unless the artist was a world name, to go to see Australians perform. Australians have thought that way for too long, but I think it is much less apparent than it used to be. I believe that this is changing. We ought to give it added emphasis. Clause 5 continues to outline the functions of the Council: 
to uphold and promote the right of persons to freedom in the practice of the arts; 
to promote the knowledge and appreciation of Australian arts by persons in other countries; 
to promote incentives for, and recognition of, achievement in the practice of the arts; and 
to encourage the support of the arts by the States, local governing bodies and other persons and organizations; and 
I think the honourable member for Parramatta would agree with me that that at least covers his electorate. Despite my dig at the honourable member for mentioning his particular circumstance so often, I think it is important that we consider this at the local level as well as at the national level. There are many local bodies in need of assistance and if we are going to promote the arts adequately in Australia, then we must give people an opportunity at the local government level and at the local district level to participate, to show their talents and at the same time to give the people around them a chance to appreciate those talents. In this era of television and mass communication there is far too little emphasis on ordinary individual participation. 
I think that this Bill will achieve not only one of its purposes which is to assist the arts generally, it also will certainly lift the appreciation of the arts in Australia. The arts covers a very wide field- music, the theatre, ballet, films and all those things in which people can show creative expression. I believe there is a great future for the arts in Australia. Through such bodies as the Arts Board, through the setting up of the Australian Council and by providing the finance to be made available under this Bdi, we can go some of the way towards helping the arts in Australia. Small groups, medium groups, some with commercial interests, right up to the big companies that perform in capital cities will be assisted by this legislation. I am pleased that, despite some criticisms and some suggestions, the BUI has received the general approval of honourable members on both sides of the House. 
The honourable member for Curtin mentioned one other matter on which I think I ought to comment. He said that there ought to be a caveat on expenditure. This is adequately provided for in the BUI and if honourable members turn to page 10 I think they, too, will agree that there is adequate control over expenditure. All expenditure is to be approved by this Parliament Where there is a need for day to day expenditure approval must be obtained from the Minister of the day. This Bill, despite the criticism about delay, is a fine piece of legislation and I believe it Wil receive the support of the House. I am sure that it will lift the appreciation of arts in Australia and provide a very firm basis for the growth of active participation in the arts by people who are interested in the arts, and also an active appreciation by the people of Australia of the very fine talent in the community. 
As usual when the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  talks about housing matters, he speaks with a great deal of knowledge and, I believe, a great deal of restraint. It is a pity that some of his colleagues do not adopt a similar approach. As I pointed out when we were debating the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974 last year, the honourable member for Lilley, although he denied it by interjection, seemed to disagree with the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and many other honourable members on his side of the House when it came to housing. 
I hope to satisfy some of the disagreements which the honourable member for Lilley finds with the Bill. In contrast to the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  seemed to me to invoke all sorts of fears. He used the usual catchcries of nationalising the building industry, socialist governments and so on. This was also a feature of a previous debate on this matter. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  said that the Bill was a blueprint for social degradation. None of these statements can be substantiated. The honourable members who are taking this attitude are defending a situation that has been in existence for a long time. Name calling is no substitute. Why is there a need for a Bill like this? Why do we need this sort of legislation? 
We need it to provide those things which are not presently provided by existing legislation either in the Australian Government area or in the area of the States. We are not- I stress it again and it has been mentioned by other honourable members- aiming to take over the role of the housing commissions in the States. Their role is properly in the field of welfare housing. This Bill provides money and organisation for all sorts of other things. 
The honourable member for Lilley criticised the Bill as being vague when he referred to particular clauses. I take the point of view that those clauses are not vague, but flexible. In regard to his belief that action could be taken without the approval of Parliament, I point out to him that under this Bill, if passed, $25m which already has been provided for in the Budget will be allocated. Any further moneys to do any of these other things must be appropriated by Appropriation Bills which come before this House and are voted on by the Parliament. 
Those regulations must be backed up by money and the money must be provided by the Parliament, by appropriations, and can be provided only by the Parliament. I see absolutely no foundation in that objection. The honourable member for Bendigo also mentioned an advertisement. It is my understanding that the positions were advertised very widely in Australia and it has been impossible to fill them. They have now been advertised overseas. There is absolutely no foundation in his accusation. It is a rather cheap political jibe. 
The Liberal-Country Party coalition has no real viable policy on rental housing. In 23 years, former Liberal-Country Party Governments did little, and did it very slowly, to ease the situation. What has this meant? It has meant that people in difficult circumstances- the people we see appearing on television programs; the people whose plight is put before the people of this nation in the Press- are the people who have not been helped. For many years they have just existed. It is time this Parliament did something about it. This Bill will do something about it. It is not before time. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party have no policy and no compassion in this area and only a very mealymouthed recital of platitudes. 
As the Minister said in his second reading speech, the Bill concentrates and mobilises the power which the Australian Government possesses in the housing field for the benefit of the people. This Bill is not an ad hoc approach to housing but will sustain a co-ordinated effort to improve housing in Australia. The Corporation will be an organisation which will be able to bring co-ordination to the housing area and to look at the problems as a whole. It will be a body with a viewpoint and a body with resolution. It will also be a counter-cyclical organisation. It will be able to do something about the downturns and the upturns in the building industry which occur far too often. For the first time we are invoking constitutional powers to provide a new and co-ordinated scheme for those people who are the responsibility of the Australian Government. 
For the benefit of the House I think we ought to mention, as set out in clause 6, what the functions of the Corporation are. They are: 
to grant money for the building of dwellings, the purchase of dwellings and the purchase of land to be used for dwellings; 
to build dwellings or take part in, or be associated with, the building of dwellings; 
to sell and lease dwellings built, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation; 
to provide, or ensure the provision of, facilities and services for persons in dwellings with which the Corporation is concerned; and 
such functions as are conferred on the Corporation by any Act. 
And that includes the War Service Homes Act. 
Sub-clause (3) states: 
The Corporation may perform its functions to the extent only that they relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws and, in particular, may perform its functions- 
That is, with regard to territories, defence Services, defence forces and other things. The particular powers of the Corporation are set out in clause 8. They are: 
to purchase or take on hire, and to dispose of, plant, machinery, equipment or other goods; 
b ) to enter into contracts; 
to erect buildings and to demolish buildings; 
to set out, construct and maintain roads, and construct and maintain shops and other buildings and works, for the provision of facilities and services to persons residing in dwellings built by the Corporation or with which the Corporation is otherwise concerned; 
There are many other provisions in this clause which provide a far-going and far-seeing resolution of the problems which face us in the housing field in Australia today. 
I can envisage the situation where, in conjunction with the Department of Urban and Regional Development, we can develop new areas for people in Australia at a reasonable cost to give them good living conditions, nothing like the sort of thing which the honourable member for Darling Downs implied in degradation of housing- nothing like that at all, but pleasant homes, pleasantly designed in parks away from the centres of our cities. This is the sort of thing I would like to see. I believe it is one of the things that is provided by this Bill which will enable us to achieve that very laudable objective. Modest housing has rapidly disappeared from the market. Nobody is building low rental housing. This type of housing was not built under the previous Government. This legislation will enable us to fill the gap. Some welfare housing has been built by the housing commission but there has not been this particular type of low rental housing that the legislation before us provides for. Private enterprise has been unable, for a variety of reasons, to provide sufficient rental housing at reasonable rates or to help those people who need assistance in bridging the deposit gap. Housing has tended over a considerable period of time to move out of the reach of a large number of potential home owners. This Bill will enable the Corporation to provide finance to assist those people who are not helped at present. It is not to replace the things that are happening at present but to provide the means by which the present gaps can be filled. 
I could point out to the House that in places such as Canada and New York rental subsidies are paid. Often they are paid to entrepreneurs who put up buildings to enable this sort of rental accommodation to be provided. This legislation will enable private enterprise to provide houses and flats which can then be used for rental housing. This action will be applauded by the building industry, particularly the small builder, and those other industries associated with the building industry. At the moment the small builder, no matter what the conditions are, finds himself in an invidious position. He is either struggling for building materials in a time of building boom or is having difficulty with finance in a time of downturn in the industry. What we want to see, as I mentioned before, is some kind of countercyclical organisation. The Corporation set up by this Bill will provide it. 
I would like to say something about a scheme which was mentioned in the Prime Minister's policy speech, namely, the deferred payments scheme. Some people, because of particular circumstances, might have difficulty in the first 5 years in meeting payments. By money which can be provided in this legislation these people can have interest and capital repayments deferred in the early stages. It is not believed that a great number of people will take advantage of it but there are people in particular circumstances who may wish to take advantage of it. Young couples who have commenced their family very early in life and are finding it difficult to provide money immediately would get great benefit from such a scheme. We should not deny these people the opportunity to have decent housing. Why should we ask them to live with their relatives and put up with conditions that many have to put up with at the moment. I think that that is of particular relevance as this House is at present considering another Bill which deals with family matters. The Bill will allow such assistance to be granted. I point out to the House that the money can be provided for under the powers contained in section 51 (XXIIIA) of the Constitution which was the amendment to the Social Services Act of 1946. I will read the relevant section to the House because I think we need to remind ourselves of the powers that exist. It states: 
The provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment, pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family allowances: 
It is under this family allowance part of section 5 1 of the Constitution that it is proposed to provide assistance to the people about whom I have been talking. 
I have already pointed out that the Australian Housing Corporation will become responsible for those activities which are presently being carried out under the defence service homes scheme. This will require the Corporation to make about 10 000 loans annually to exservicemen and women, involving advances totalling in excess of $ 100m. The administrative and technical expertise in the field of direct lending which the Corporation will possess as a result of employing the staff who have operated the defence service homes scheme will make it easy for the Corporation to develop procedures for making loans to home-seekers for whom the Australian Government has constitutional responsibility. However, this group is so broad that it would be neither desirable nor feasible to suggest that the Australian Housing Corporation should try to meet the requirements for housing loans of everyone in the group. It is not the intention of the Government to duplicate the functions of established lending institutions such as the State housing authorities, the Government and private savings banks and the terminating and permanent building societies. I hope that members of the Opposition pay attention to that because it has been one of the main points of their argument. Nor is it the intention of the Government that the activities of the Australian Housing Corporation should conflict in any way with established policy on the provision of housing for particular groups, such as migrants, students or Aborigines. While in some cases the Government may decide to integrate existing housing programs into the broad framework of the Housing Corporation, the fundamental intention is that the activities of the Corporation will complement those of existing organisations. 
Because of this, the individuals, beyond those eligible under the defence service homes scheme, to whom the Corporation could be empowered to make direct loans would necessarily be selected with great care. The Minister for Housing and Construction, in consultation with other interested Ministers, would draw up the regulations setting out the terms and conditions under which a loan could be made. While no decision can or should be made at this stage as to what is the appropriate lending policy to follow, it is of interest to discuss some of the possibilities. The Corporation could be directed to lend to families who did not meet the eligibility conditions set out in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, but who could not meet the repayment burden imposed by the much higher interest rates charged by permanent building societies and banks. Under the 1973-74 Housing Agreement, advances are being made available to the States at the very low interest rate of 4 per cent per annum on advances allotted to the State housing authorities and 4'/2 per cent per annum on advances allotted to the States' Home Builders' Accounts. I think that members of the Opposition ought to take note of that. They have been going on a great deal about interest rates. 
The Government has acted positively in this field and had provided a great deal more money than could normally have been expected, bearing in mind the situation of inflation in Australia. So there has been an advance in real terms. Under present arrangements to be eligible for a loan of Home Builders' Account moneys, the average gross weekly income of the main breadwinner of the family, exclusive of overtime and child endowment payments, during the 6 months immediately prior to applying for a loan must not have exceeded 95 per cent of the Commonwealth Statistician's estimate of average weekly earnings during the preceding December quarter. Each State may use the State or the Australian figure for the purpose of the income test. All the State Ministers have now indicated that they are in favour of quarterly adjustments of the needs test in order to preserve, to the maximum extent practicable, relativity between the needs test and the general level of wages throughout the year and, accordingly, the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement is to be varied to provide for this by using as the basis the seasonally adjusted series of quarterly average weekly earnings which the Commonwealth Statistician first published in September 1974. 1 note that in answer to a question I asked the other day in the House the Minister made this particularly clear. The State of New South Wales can be used as an example. Here, insofar as Home Builders' Account applicants are concerned, this variation in the method of computing the needs tests will have the effect of raising the limit at the present time for a family with up to 2 children from $117.80 to $136.80. The maximum loan is $ 17,520; monthly loan repayments vary depending on the terms and conditions of the loan, but a figure of about $102 would be normal given the maximum interest rate of 5% per cent stipulated in the Agreement. This would give many borrowers some scope for taking up second mortgages. However, now consider the case of the person who has an income slightly above the income limit and is faced with an interest rate of at least  1014  per cent, and commonly 12 per cent, generally together with a shorter repayment period. A similar size loan at these interest rates would require repayments of $165 to $185 a month. This is far too much for a person on a weekly income of $137 to pay. Even if this much could be paid, a loan of $ 1 7,520 is not enough to purchase a dwelling in Sydney unless a very substantial deposit has been saved, and this is a most unlikely circumstance in many situations. This is the kind of person who needs Government assistance. The Australian Housing Corporation could lend to a family in this situation at a subsidised rate of interest. A loan of $20,000 over 30 years would require a monthly repayment of $ 140 if an interest rate of  Vh  per cent was used. However, consideration should be given to regular review of the terms and conditions of the loan so that a Government subsidy would not be provided when it was no longer required. 
This is just one example of how this Bill would operate in practice. I am appalled at the attitude of the Opposition in opposing this legislation. It provides sufficient safeguards to ensure that this Parliament is not over-ruled. It enters into areas in which governments have not entered before in sufficient strength or with sufficient variety. It is my opinion, and I am sure it is the opinion of my colleagues, that this piece of legislation is particularly important because it will do something about what I consider to be the intolerable situation which has developed over the years. I ask honourable members on the other side of the House to search their conscience, to really look at the situation. Do they really believe that what has been done over the last quarter of a century is in the interests of those people who need assistance. If they look at the situation logically- it is not too late yet whatever they decide to do in this House- and they have a degree of compassion for those people who would be assisted by this legislation they should use their influence to ensure that the legislation goes through. I believe that one of the most important things that this Parliament can do is to provide housing which is one of the basic needs of the Australian community. 
I think it is important that honourable members should understand why this amendment is being moved. Obviously honourable members opposite have failed to obtain a copy of the explanatory notes, because if they had done so they would not be arguing in the way in which they are arguing. Furthermore, Opposition members who have spoken so far have not referred to the clause but have dealt with general philosophical matters associated with the BUI. I made my views perfectly clear when I spoke to the second reading of this BUI, but I will explain, for the benefit of those honourable members who have not seen the explanatory notes, that this amendment is needed to assist people in the purchase of land. Unless there is such a clause where people have obtained bridging finance the Corporation could not help them by way of a second mortgage loan replacing the bridging loan. This is one of the machinery amendments which the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has inserted to make sure that the BUI operates in the way in which it is intended to operate. I can only describe the objections which I have heard so far as very negative nit picking. 
Few measures that have come before this House or before this Parliament have had such detailed examination as this Bill has had. The need for reform in our divorce laws and laws relating to marriage has been discussed actively now for 18 months or 2 years. I would like to comment on some of the matters raised by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  The honourable member for Wimmera indicated- in fact, I think he saidthat there would be more divorces if this legislation were carried in its present form. He may well be correct. There may well be more divorces. But what I put to him and to other honourable members is that there may be more divorces but not more broken marriages. I think that is the important thing and the matter about which we should think a great deal. One of the letters I received said: 'No law- good or bad- can control the devotion between 2 people in marriage '. 
I think we ought to consider very carefully that this matter which is before the House is a law relating to the conduct of marriage and divorce. It is not something which can by itself make good marriages. The Leader of the Country Party said that he would not like to see something which allowed people to walk out of a marriage without any responsibility on them. The sad fact is that at the moment very many people do precisely that. I believe the Bill is more realistic and is liable to lead to a better situation in this regard than the present law. The Leader of the Country Party talked about objections to this Bill, but many of the provisions which he advocated are in fact contained in the present legislation. This is not a divorce Bill but a family law Bill. It certainly concerns divorce but it also concerns marriage and the family. 
As I indicated before, there has been long discussion of this Bill by the Senate and by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. In its interim report, which was presented in September 1974 before the final report in October 1974, the Committee said in part: 
The amendment - 
It was referring to the amendment on which the Senate Committee intended to make recommendations to the Senate-  relates to the incorporation in the Bill of provisions to establish a Family Court which, freed of the rigidity and formality of conventional courts, would be able to exercise jurisdiction over the whole range of 'family' matters with dignity, informality, expedition and comparative lack of expense. The Committee is of the opinion that the establishment of such a court is an essential supplement to the change from a concept of 'fault' in divorce grounds to one of irretrievable breakdown evidenced by separation. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs was formed on 7 December 1971. It brought down its final report in October last year. 
One of the things that has disturbed me about this debate is the way in which some people in the .community- not necessarily people in this House- have turned the argument on its head. It is a common tactic used by peole who wish to oppose any measure to claim that that measure seeks to do the opposite to that which is intended. So we have heard it stated that this Bill is a danger to marriage and that it is likely to cause all sorts of social evils. I believe that, far from that being the truth, the opposite is the truth and that this Bill will in fact strengthen marriage and will make for better relationships between all the members of a family. At the moment, long after a marriage has been dissolved, in many cases there is a running battle over the custody of the children of that marriage. I believe that the clauses in this Bill which concern the custody of children are a very great improvement on the situation which exists at the moment. I fail to see what people hope to gain by advocating 3 years as being the minimum time for separation as a ground for divorce. Surely such protracted proceedings can only damage a husband and wife and their children. Nothing in the field of human relations could be so calculated to damage what residue of good feeling remains between the marriage partners or to jeopardise the future welfare of their children. 
Much of the discussion on the provisions of the Family Law Bill seems to assume that laws relating to divorce can make marriages more satisfactory. I believe this to be an incorrect assumption in that it seems unrealistic to believe that laws relating to the dissolution of a marriage can affect the quality of that marriage. Is there anyone who really believes that regardless of the laws that apply to divorce those laws of themselves would make a marriage successful or unsuccessful? A great deal of discussion has centred on the 12 months period of separation being the evidence of irretrievable breakdown. It is claimed by some people that this ground is not a satisfactory test for determining whether a marriage has broken down as it excludes as a ground for divorce the question of fault on the part of one or both partners to the marriage. However, it should be stressed again that since the Matrimonial Causes Act was passed in 1959 a similar ground has existed in the present legislation. Unless it is proposed to do away with this ground altogether then the argument must centre not upon the ground itself but on the length of time proposed. All the evidence which I have been able to find on this matter points to the fact that very few marriages where the partners have lived apart for one year or more before proceedings are instituted are capable of rehabilitation. 
It is claimed by many people that to abolish fault as a ground for divorce as opposed to the consideration of the conduct of the partners to the marriage for the purposes of maintenance or custody means that the so-called innocent party to the marriage would suffer, apart from the faa that marriage guidance counsellors are in the vast majority of cases convinced that the breakdown of a marriage is seldom due to action taken by one partner to the marriage and that partner alone. The effect of contesting divorce on the basis of fault is damaging both to the husband and wife and more importantly to any children of the marriage. The emotional scars of such proceedings very frequently stay with all those concerned for the rest of their lives making it difficult for the former husband and wife to build new and meaningful relationships. In addition, children who are affected by such proceedings are frequently handicapped in their inability to contract happy and stable marriages in the future. This leads me to believe that those who wish to perpetuate the present situation far from assisting the maintenance of stable family relationships succeed in promoting the direct opposite. In short, the proposals as set out in this Bill, if adopted, will lead to a more harmonious transition following a breakdown of a marriage relationship and will ensure happier and more stable marriages in the future. 
I cannot agree with the arguments of people who say that they stand for the stability of the family subjecting the children of the failed marriage to the mental cruelty which often exists at the moment. One wonders whether they are really interested in the family or only their concept of it. Although divorce laws in Australia have been subjected to no significant change since 1959 the numbers of divorces and the grounds upon which such divorces have been granted have been subject to considerable change. This indicates that it is not the laws which have caused the change but social attitudes. Because of this change in social attitudes there is a need to adjust laws to see that the best interests of marriages, the family and society generally are served. It is wrong to condemn people whose marriages have failed for whatever reason to a much longer period of hatred and bitterness than is absolutely necessary. It is impossible to make laws which are ideal for every circumstance. However, laws are made for the majority and should in this instance seek to regulate divorce in the best interests of society as a whole. 
I do not believe this is the time to go into detail on the various clauses in the Bill. There will probably be ample opportunity to do that at a later stage, but I would like to say that I believe that this Bill incorporates many advantages so far as custody, reconciliation, the operation of the Family Court and matters concerned with injunctions are concerned. Further, in talking about the effect on the majority of the people in our society, it is quite clear from surveys which have been undertaken that the vast majority of people are dissatisfied with the way divorce laws operate in Australia and seek change in them. In the Senate  Senator Missen  incorporated in Hansard the results of a Morgan poll taken in late 1973, before the Bill was introduced. I seek leave to incorporate the same table in Hansard. 
-I have the honour to bring up the Fifth Report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that Mount Royal Home and Hospital for the Aged in Victoria requests pensioner patients who are covered for inpatient treatment by the Pensioner Medical Service to make additional payments during their hospitalisation in the form of a so-called voluntary contribution. 
If so, how are these requests for these voluntary contributions made to pensioner patients of Mount Royal, and by which particular hospital employees. 
Is it also a fact that reminder statements for these voluntary contributions are forwarded to pensioner patients and their relatives in the form of an account; if so, why is this particular procedure followed. 
If pensioner patients state that they are unable to afford the voluntary contribution, are they visited by a member of the hospital 's administrative staff and asked to explain their reason for not paying the voluntary contribution. 
Who determines the amount of voluntary contribution required of pensioner patients. 
Is a means test applied to determine the rate of voluntary contributions; if so, why. 
Was the practice of requiring voluntary contributions authorised by the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission; if so, when. 
What power has the Commission to authorise these extra charges to pensioner patients. 
Was the authority of the Australian Government sought for these charges to be made to pensioner patients covered by the Pensioner Medical Service; if so, has this authority been given. 
If this authority is not required, has the Australian Government been consulted regarding these extra charges required of pensioner patients. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that pensioner patients in the long-term nursing care wards at Mount Royal Home and Hospital for the Aged in Victoria are allocated $2 per fortnight spending money by the Hospital after their hospital fees have been deducted from their pensions, and that the remainder of the patient's pension is held by the Hospital in a Trust Account. 
Is it also a fact that these patients then need to make a special request to the hospital administrative staff who administer the trust account if they wish to withdraw any additional amount of their own money, and that before approval is given, patients have to account for how they intend to spend this money. 
Is it also a fact that, when pensioner patients accumulate a certain amount of savings in the trust account through these circumstances, the management of Mount Royal has issued instructions to administrative staff to increase these patients' fees accordingly; if so, are these fee increases carried out according to a means test. 
Are these fee increases discussed with all of the particular patients involved. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Is the Minister aware that the sport of lawn bowls has more active participants than any other sport in Australia and that it is one of the few active sports that cater for the older members of the community? Is he further aware of the community health aspects associated with lawn bowls? Will he give consideration to what forms of financial and organisational assistance would be appropriate for this recreation? 
I want to speak briefly on this clause and on the matters raised by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  I was fortunate enough to be present in another place last year when this matter was being discussed. I heard the discussion by both sides of that chamber. When looking at the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Gwydir the first point to be considered is that we are dealing with an Act of the Queensland Parliament which is in force, so anything that is done concerning the rights of Aborigines to enter on to reserves is done under the authority of that Act. I believe that any sort of control like that is wrong in principle. I have been led to believe that in any case the local people control absolutely the entry of Aborigines and Islanders on to the reserves which are controlled under the Queensland law. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, no group of people has the right to say to any other people of the same race: 'You shall not enter upon this reserve'. 
Remember that we are not talking about people who are breaking laws which apply to all people of Queensland or all people of Australia. We are talking about a discriminatory law which applies only to Torres Strait Islanders and Aborigines living in Queensland who enter or live upon those reserves. It should be clearly understood by honourable members that the clauses which were removed by the Senate and which are the subject of the amendment now before us are there to protect the rights of all Aborigines and all Islanders to enter upon and live peaceably on those places. We could reach the situation where, because of some discrimination on a personal basis, an Aboriginal or Islander would not be allowed to rejoin his family or his friends in a reserve. I think that that is a right which this House ought to protect. 
I feel that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  defeats much of his own argument. He says that the adoption of this clause will allow all sorts of malpractices to occur. He did not use the word 'malpractice' but I believe that is what he was leading to. I feel that the clause provides for the appointment of people with special attainments and the qualifications of surveyors. Perhaps there will be other qualifications which are relevant to drawing up distributions. It would allow persons with such qualifications to be appointed to a committee in a State for the carrying out of distributions of electoral boundaries in that State. I feel that that would be an advantage. One of the things that has disturbed me about the electoral distributions that have been carried out is that very frequently insufficient consideration is given to matters such as community of interest. Someone who has surveying qualifications and who has by experience shown that he or she can bring special advantages to bear in the position could act in a much better capacity than someone who is appointed as a surveyor-general from a State or someone else who was mentioned in the present legislation as being qualified. 
I think that the argument used by the honourable member for Curtin is spurious insofar as it refers to the Government of the day. If any person is appointed and it can be shown that the person is aligned with any political party that forms the government of the day, that government must bear the odium of such an appointment. But the practicalities of politics are such that in the practical sense I do not believe that such malpractice can in fact occur. I believe that this clause gives much more flexibility than is contained in the present Act. I urge the House to support it. 
Frankly, I am appalled at some of the things that have been brought to the light of day in the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  Everyone knows that some abuses occur. One has only to look at the voting returns for postal votes and the pattern of voting to be able to see that some extraneous influence is being brought to bear. In the last election, the result in my electorate of Diamond Valley was close. Recounts were necessary. My scrutineers reported to me that the number of votes coming in for the Liberal candidate from the first batches of postal votes- these were the first postal votes put out and were ones that had been solicited- showed a pattern of voting much more in favour of the Liberal candidate than was the voting trend in any sub-division in the whole electorate. The point I am making is that these votes were specially solicited. The clause which - 
-I cannot prove it. There is no way of proving it. 
It is reasonable to suspect that some - 
The evidence is that the pattern of voting was completely different from any other pattern of voting in that electorate in that election. That ought to be evidence enough for the honourable member. The situation is that in many electorates groups, belonging not only to the Liberal Party, have gone out to hospitals where sick people are and have organised the votes. They know from an examination of the lists that these people are there and that their votes can be solicited. As the honourable member for Griffith said, these people are stood over and their votes are obtained. I think that this practice is completely wrong. It is something which ought not to be done. I can stand here and say that I have never done it, and to my knowledge no members of my campaign committee have ever done it. It is an action, I feel, that can be prevented only by having laws as are provided for in this clause which the Opposition opposes. 
For the benefit of the Committee, let me read the relevant proposed new sub-section, which provides: 
A person is not entitled to inspect applications in accordance with sub-section (3) for the purpose of compiling a list or lists of the names of the persons who made the applications, except where such a list is genuinely required for the person solely for the purpose of, or in connection with- 
an inquiry into an alleged or suspected contravention of, or failure to comply with, this Act; or 
a petition under Part XVIII. 
What we will never be able to do by legislation is to prevent candidates of any political party compiling special lists of names of people who are known to be infirm or ill whom they then canvass to solicit their votes. What we can do by agreeing to this clause is prevent an organised, large scale undertaking in which people are solicited and stood over to vote for a specific candidate. We believe in the democratic process- and I believe that if one could talk individually to members of this House one would find that they really believe in that process- and we will support this clause as it is a provision which is long overdue. 
Clause agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I disagree with what the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has said. I believe that this system is in the best interests of the people. I will not canvass the reason that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr 
Young) put before the Committee because I think he covered this matter very adequately. The situation is that at the moment a lot of people are being deprived of a vote because of the system under which they vote. The Australian Country Party of course is a past master at making use of the present system. The present system of preferential voting was brought in by Prime Minister Billy Hughes at the behest of the Country Party after he had left the Labor Party in 1919 to organise votes in the interests of the conservative parties by ganging up and exchanging preferences. 
This clause does not prevent people expressing a preference and optional preferential voting has nothing to do with first past the post voting. It is my understanding that the Labor Party has no policy in regard to first past the post or any other system of voting. So I am expressing a personal opinion when I say that I believe that the best kind of voting system for Australia and for this chamber and the system that would give the most flexibility would be a combination of optional preferential voting and proportional representation. Under that system we would have a proper expression of opinion and less informal votes as far as single member constituency candidates are concerned. We would also enable minority groups in the community to be represented without their being able to use political blackmail by using a balance of power. That is my personal preference. 
A step along the way would be to give the people of Australia the opportunity to express a preference if they wish. That is the intention of this clause. Surely no reasonable person would object to that. Political parties and candidates will still give out how to vote cards and if they want a preference to be expressed their supporters will express that preference by voting according to the party ticket. I cannot understand why the honourable member for Fisher is so concerned about the matter. I do not believe that this clause will change the present voting patterns nor lead necessarily to first past the post voting. 
I address myself to clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill. In commencing I should like to remark on some of the things that were said by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  If the honourable member for Mackellar were to look at the second report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, as it was then, he would see that there is a considerable section in that report relating to freeways and that the Committee has recommended to the House of Representatives and to the Government that certain steps be taken to ensure that freeways do not pass through inner suburban areas. It also posed various alternatives for the handling of the motor car. The Committee realised that while we have motor cars there is a need to transfer them from one part of a city to another. I take this opportunity of urging the Government and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to consider that report at the earliest opportunity. 
That leads me to say something about the workings of that Committee in relation to these clauses. I believe that the work which has been done by that Committee is an example to this Parliament of the way in which an all-party committee can work. I am confident that, given the opportunity to continue with its deliberations in the sort of spirit which has been in evidence so far, a great deal of good will come out of it. The honourable member for Mackellar also spoke about getting people to conferences. That sort of approach has been adopted for a long while but, unfortunately, it has not achieved the sorts of objectives that the many of us who have an interest in road safety would have hoped that it would achieve. 
The point I put to the Committee is that this Bill- in particular the 2 clauses I am now debatingdoes much more to establishthe sort of situation in which the national government, in co-operation with State bodies, local government bodies and other interested persons and bodies concerned with road safety, can really get on with solving the problem. If honourable members look at clauses 3 and 4 they will see therein listed a set of objects and functions which will enable the sort of situation to arise in which the national government, in co-operation with those other bodies, can make a very substantial contribution towards reducing the death toll. 
Finally, I think that the Committee ought to realise that it is only possible to reduce the number of deaths on our roads by looking at the problem as a whole. During the debate earlier this evening on the motion for the second reading of the Bill honourable members stressed this point. I would like to underline it because I believe it is the only possible way of achieving the results we want to achieve. An emotional approach to the problem will not achieve those objectives. I give just one example to the Committee as far as this environmental approach is concerned because in a way it links up with what the honourable member for Mackellar had to say. For a long time people accepted all sorts of things as being inevitable. They accepted disease as being inevitable. They accepted railway accidents as being inevitable. Many other scourges of mankind were accepted as being inevitable. It was only when they looked at the problem as a whole and at the system that they were able to do something. I stress to the Committee and to the Minister that I believe this is the only approach. I hope that the authority that will be established under this Bill will, because of the functions which are outlined for it in clauses 3 and 4, be able to approach the problem in this way and achieve the desired objective. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, last Tuesday night during the debate on the adjournment of the House the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  in speaking about the situation in Vietnam, indicated that tens of thousands of innocent people could be massacred as the Communist advance took place. 
In response to my interjection of 'how do you know?' in relation to reprisals the honourable member said: 
Of course we do not know but we have heard reports from others at other times in other parts of Vietnam- for instance, when the communists took Hue. The evidence is there. 

 Mr Speaker, the evidence is not there. The evidence is quite to the contrary, and in this paper that I have here written by that respected scholar, Colin Mackerras, about the Hue massacre, he stated, among other things, that accounts of Hue: have conveniently forgotten the damage caused by American bombing, and one almost gains the impression that they believe that bombs and napalm do not kill people. Undoubtedly the Communists were responsible for some of the deaths, but very much fewer than Nixon and others would have us believe. 
The Americans bombed Hue persistently and fiercely to re-assert control. One American official- American official,  Mr Speaker-  estimated at the time that at least 4000 of Hue's residents had been killed in the cross-fire. 
His name is Gene Roberts and he wrote this statement - 
This statement appeared in the ' New York Times ' on 7 March 1 968. 
-I present the Sixth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an article in a recent issue of 'Reveille', the journal of the Returned Services League, which alleged that Australia is being caught up in a world-wide communist pincer movement? If so, I ask: Did the article assert that the ANZUS Treaty was not worth the paper it was written on, advocate the acquisition of nuclear weapons and support the creation of private armies? Do the Government's programs envisage that any such measures or attitudes would contribute to the defence of Australia? 
-It has been interesting to listen to the debate because honourable members on the other side of the chamber have seldom talked about the Bill that has been before the Chair. The reason they have not done so is that they know that the real reason why they are opposing this Bill and the other Bills is indefensible. The real reason why members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia are opposing this Bill and the other Bills is that the Bills seek to prevent from continuing into the future the electoral advantage that they have had. That is the only reason why they are opposing the Bills. 
If the Liberal Party had any sense of responsibility towards its own members and the people who vote for it at elections it would not have anything to do with the Country Party on this issue. It is a great shame to see the once great Liberal Party bowing to pressure from the Country Party. There are twice as many members of the Liberal Party who sit in this chamber as there are members of the Country Party; yet the Country Party has put so much pressure on the Liberal Party that it has been prepared to bow down without paying any regard to electoral justice. The concept of one vote one value seems no longer to mean anything to the Liberal Party. We on this side of the chamber may disagree with many of the things for which the Liberal Party stands, but at least we thought it stood for electoral justice. 
If members of the Liberal Party, particularly those from the State of Victoria, have been reading the editorials that have been appearing in the newspapers over the past few weeks they would have seen that people who do not agree with the Australian Labor Party on many other issues believe that the virtues of the principle of one vote one value are still important in the sort of democracy in which we live. The Liberal Party has become like a piece of wire solder- ductile and malleable- and has been twisted by the Country Party in the Country Party's interests. What is more, as I have said in debates in this chamber on similar subjects, the Country Party is like an albatross around the neck of the Liberal Party. If the Liberal Party ever had a chance of getting rid of the bird that hangs around its neck it has it now while it is in Opposition. The Liberal Party will never have such a chance when it is in Government. If that is not done it will be to the great disadvantage of the Australian people. 
I do not deny that country people are entitled to representation in this Parliament, but I do say that they are not entitled to representation out of all accord with their numbers, which is the situation at the moment. Of course, there is a rough logic- a very rough logic- in the attitude adopted by the Liberal Party to this matter. The Liberal Party is more interested in staying in power in conduction with the Country Party than in supporting the sort of principles that on the hustings of this country at election time and in other statements in this chamber it says it supports. 
What happened in 1965? The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  was speaking about this matter earlier. I said that the matter to which he was referring took place in 1964, but it was 1965. At the behest of the Country Party, the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day changed the rules to suit itself. What the honourable member for Maranoa said about events until that time was correct, but in 1 965 the coalition changed the rules of the game to suit itself. It is quite incorrect for honourable members on the other side of the chamber to stand up in this chamber and say that the Labor Party is producing some sort of gerrymander. They are the people who stand for a situation which gives them a greater electoral advantage than members on the Government side of the chamber. To say that it is a gerrymander is completely incorrect. If the Liberal Party has an ounce of sense, it will review its stand when these Bills come before the Senate. I point out to the Liberal Party - 
-I have the honour to bring up the seventh report from the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to last Wednesday's decision of the High Court of Australia upholding an appeal relating to mining on Fraser Island? Does this decision have any significance for environmental protection? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think at the outset I should put the House straight about one very important point that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  made on a number of occasions in his speech. A Constitution (Alternation) Bill cannot- I repeat cannot- be the subject of action taken under section 57 of the Constitution which, of course, refers to the proceedings for a double dissolution. If the Senate does not pass this Bill on 2 occasions, the consequence is that the Bill can then be put to the people. All that is required is for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to ask the Governor-General to agree to have a referendum on the subject of the Constitution (Alteration) Bill put to the people. If the people agree to the change being made, that becomes an alteration to the Constitution. Because this point was made on a number of occasions by the honourable member for Curtin, I repeat that a Bill of this type cannot be the subject of a double dissolution. The procedure for the treatment of such a Bill is quite separate. 
The honourable member for Curtin seemed to be arguing in favour of having separate elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. I point out to him and to the House that the cost of holding separate elections for either the House of Representatives or the Senate is now rapidly approaching $2m. Considering the benefits and the disadvantages of holding separate elections, it seems to me that most people would favour having simultaneous elections. It is all right for the honourable member for Curtin to tell us that the question has been put to the people previously and that the people have made a decision on it. In my opinion, the argument that was put to the people previously by the Opposition was very misleading. Member after member of the Opposition stood in this House and said that the whole problem could be resolved if there was a double dissolution. I ask the Opposition to look at the debates which occurred early in November last year when this matter was last discussed. It will see what its spokesman said on that occasion. The then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and other members of the Opposition said in this House that this problem could be resolved by the Government going to the people in a double dissolution. Of course, this has not occurred. 
The election for one-half of the Senate must occur between 1 July this year and 30 June next year. That must happen unless there is a double dissolution. It is easy to see that this is not in conjunction with the House of Representatives election because this House is due to go to the people at any time around May 1977. I remind the members of the Opposition that next year is 1976. So separate elections, by the attitude that the members of the Opposition adopted on the last occasion a similar Bill came before this House, will inevitably cost the people of Australia $2m. This may not seem a great deal of money to members of this Parliament who are used to dealing in thousands of millions of dollars but $2m, I think anyone would agree, is worth saving in anybody 's language. 
The advantages of having separate elections for which the Opposition now appears to be arguing just cannot be substantiated. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, which brought down its report in 1959 and which was composed of members of all parties, argued very strongly in favour of having simultaneous elections. I would like to quote very briefly from its report. The relevant part of the report can be seen in full at page 3332 and subsequent pages in Hansard dated 14 November 1973. The Committee said: 
There are, to the Committee's way of thinking, reasons why one-half the number of senators should retire at every general election of members of the House of Representatives which are sufficiently cogent to justify a constitutional amendment. 
That was the decision of that Committee. The Committee later said: 
The Committee believes that the weight of public opinion is opposed to the holding of separate elections for the 2 Houses of the Federal Parliament. The Australian people already have to vote frequently because they are also called upon to elect members to the Parliaments of their States, in some States, for 2 Houses at different times. 
I speak to a lot of people who are very concerned about the number of elections which are held. When there are local government elections, byelections for local government quite frequently, elections for the State Houses and elections for the Federal Parliament, people seem to be going to the polls all the time. It is a senseless and very costly procedure to ask them to vote twice for the Federal Parliament. The Committee also said: 
Separate elections also tend to emphasise the component parts of the Parliament at the expense of the Parliament itself. 
That is something with which I agree very much indeed. Of course, minorities do have rights. The honourable member for Curtin said that the present procedure allowed minorities to exercise a function in this Parliament. Because the Senate is elected by proportional representation those minorities already have a chance to exercise thenproper function in this Parliament. 
It is a great surprise to me to see the members of the Opposition arguing for a situation which I believe is tending to denigrate the whole democratic system. People both on the extreme right and on the extreme left in Australian politics would seem to be trying to drag down the democratic process and to make it as inefficient as possible for their own similar but at the same time disparate purposes. They are working from different ends but they are working to the same cause. I think that ought to be of concern to every member of this Parliament regardless of his political party allegiance. It is hard to understand why the Opposition does not want to let the people decide. It is hard to understand why on previous occasions and again on this occasion it has put up a smokescreen of arguments about all sorts of things which have absolutely nothing to do with the Bill. 
The Opposition has been talking about the abolition of the Senate. That is completely irrelevant to the present debate. Members of the Opposition are talking as they did in the previous debates. I remember the honourable member for Moreton talked about the idea of having a unicameral system, that is one House of Parliament. I agree with that, but that does not mean it has anything to do with this Bill. The Opposition is constantly putting up a smokescreen of arguments which have nothing whatever to do with this Bill. The honourable member for Curtin then talked about first past the post voting. How on earth can that have anything to do with what we are talking about, which is simultaneous elections for the Houses of this Parliament? I believe that the referendum failed to be carried because the people were fed that sort of argument. They were told that in any case there was no need to vote for it because a double dissolution would solve the problem. That is quite incorrect. The Opposition has been misleading the people by putting forward those arguments. I believe that the people ought to have another chance to say what they think about this matter. Perhaps we could then get into a situation in which this Parliament would run much better than it is at the moment. The holding of simultaneous elections would not affect the Senate's power in any way. I ask honourable members opposite to have a look at the report of the Constitutional Review Committee. I believe that the arguments put in it are ones with which this Parliament and all the parties in it ought to agree. The honourable member for Curtin ought to brush up on his law when it comes to constitutional questions, because section 57 of the Constitution has nothing whatsoever to say about or to do with the matters that he brought before the House. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to reports that the New South Wales Government has set up a telephone information service to answer questions on Medibank? Can the Minister inform the House whether this action indicates a change of attitude to Medibank on the part of the New South Wales Government and whether this action is motivated by altruistic or rather less worthy motives? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Capital Territory. What will be the major functions of the proposed Australian Capital Territory Fuel Authority? What forms of energy will it cover? Will the Authority indulge in price cutting in relation to petroleum products? What effects will its establishment have on petrol dealers in the Australian Capital Territory? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Following the passing of the Family Law Bill by the Parliament, I and many other honourable members have received numerous inquiries regarding the future operation of the Family Law Act. Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the House of the progress to date in introducing the Family Court of Australia and the likely date of commencement of the Family Law Act? 
-I have the honour to bring up the eighth report by the Publications Committee of this House sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report-by leave- agreed to. 
-I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development: Has the Area Improvement Program been accepted by many hundreds of local government authorities and community groups in urban and country areas throughout Australia? Has this program brought benefits to deprived regions and local government areas? Has the level of spending been geared to what can be done without a strain on resources? What effect would the scrapping of the AIP have on the provision of community facilities? 
The estimates for the Parliament are likely to receive universal consideration by honourable members from both sides of the chamber because I believe that we are all vitally interested in the institution of the Parliament. I agree with the remarks just made by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I think that the estimates for the parliament are more important than any other estimates because the Parliamentary system is fundamental to our way of life and to the way in which we manage our affairs. I think that all of us are pleased to see the way in which the debate is being conducted. Like the honourable member for Lyne, I believe that out parliamentary system is under very strong challenge at the moment. I would like to express my concern about the situation which has developed with regard to parliamentary democracy in Australia. As mentioned by the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  this evening, we had one election before the required time because the Senate threatened to refuse Supply. 
When the founding fathers drew up our Constitution they balanced the rights of the colonies, which were later to become the States, with the rights of the population of Australia as a whole. Unfortunately, because of the expressed rights of the colonies at the time and because they felt there was a need to have a States House, which after federation rapidly became a Party House, the situation developed- and it exists at the present time- where the Senate in certain circumstances could refuse Supply and thus force the House of Representatives to an election without having to go to an election itself. We should think very seriously about this matter because we could reach a situation where a party or a number of parties with the majority in the Senate could continue to refuse Supply regardless of what happened in an election for the House of Representatives. 
In those circumstances democracy becomes virtually unworkable. I suggest that if the Constitution had been drawn up about 12 or 15 years later than it was the situation we have at the moment would not have occurred, because about 1910 or 1911 after a constitutional crisis in the United Kingdom the House of Lords had the power to refuse money taken away from it- or it agreed by virtue of the circumstances that it could not refuse money to the Parliament. I believe that that sort of power would have been enshrined in the Constitution if it had been drawn up about 1 5 years later. But it did not happen that way. I think that there are members of all parties in the Parliament who are very concerned about what could happen. I draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that no government can be universally popular during its whole term in office. No government can govern effectively if every 6 months when Supply Bills come before the Parliament that party elected to power at the preceding election has to go to the people. That is one reason why municipal councils always strike the rate immediately after the annual; election. If that were not done the finances of local government would be in an even worse state than they are now. 
The situation to which I have referred has happened before. To my knowledge it has happened twice in my own State. On 20 December 1877, nearly 100 years ago, the Legislative Council refused Supply to the Berry Government. The Berry Government refused to accept what it regarded as being an unconstitutional action on the part of the Legislative Council. It sat the situation out until the Legislative Council decided to do something else about it. 
I suggest to this Committee that this is precisely the sort of situation that could occur in the future to either the present Government or some other government if it were faced with the rejection of Supply in the Senate. I also suggest to honourable members on the other side of the chamber, because I have heard them express sentiments in terms similar to those used by the honourable member for Lyne, that this goes very close to destroying the whole system, because once money for government runs out, the public servants cannot be paid, pensioners cannot be paid and contractors cannot be paid. If this should happen in this Parliament we will be faced with a very serious constitutional crisis. 
In answer to the point that was made by the honourable member for Lyne about the need to take action in certain circumstances, let me say that there have been occasions in this Parliament when a government has fallen, but it has fallen in the House of Representatives and it has fallen because the Party in power has not been able to have a majority of members in support of it. That has happened both under Labor and under Conservative administrations. That is the remedy to a situation- not to refuse supply in the other chamber. I feel very strongly about this, because I believe that if this should happen Australia will be faced with a very difficult and very dangerous situation. I do not need to go into details before the Committee. I leave it to the imagination of honourable members. I think they will readily see how this Parliament could be affected. 
The estimates for the Parliament have been carefully drawn up by the officers of the Parliament and they provide what I believe to be adequate expenditure for the services of the Parliament. I draw the Committee's attention to the appropriation under administrative expenses for standing and select committees. I notice that in this coming year the amount of $100,000 is suggested as the correct appropriation for this item. I believe that the Parliament is well served by the select and standing committees. They provide one of the few opportunities which honourable members in this chamber, in the Senate and jointly have of sitting down together on an allParty basis to discuss matters of importance to their country and to their electorates in the special matters which they consider. I believe that we are getting very good service in this way. Many of the reports which are brought before this Parliament are unanimous reports, despite the fact that many of them are very controversial. I hope that the Parliament will consider in the very near future an extension of the committees of this place and perhaps a reorganisation of the procedure of the Parliament to allow those committees to function more effectively. I commend to the Committee the estimates as outlined for the Parliament. As I said before, I believe they are adequate, that they are not extravagant, and in my opinion they will make sure that the services and the functions of this place are carried on properly and for the benefit of the people. 
-I bring up the 9th report from the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- agreed to. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a report stating that large areas of Port Phillip Bay are heavily polluted with cadmium, zinc, mercury and other highly poisonous heavy metals? In particular, has the Minister seen figures which show that the figures for cadmium content in mussels in Corio Bay are the highest documented in the world- 9 times the limit considered safe? Is it a fact that the National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended a maximum content of 2 parts per million of cadmium in fish and fish products? Has the Victorian State Government followed this recommendation? 
-I address myself to the estimates for the Department of Environment. I do so to raise 2 matters. During the year the Department made available sums of money for 2 projects which are of particular importance to me. The sum of $ 1 ,000 was made available for an investigation into the environmental aspects of the establishment of a radiation laboratory at Yallambie in my electorate. That money enabled a group of citizens to get the necessary information and to put their case to the Public Works Committee of this Parliament. Also, during the year the Department of 
Environment made $5,000, 1 think, available to the Town and Country Planning Association of Victoria to enable a project on waste disposal in Melbourne to be carried out and a report to be prepared. I think that both these matters are of importance. 
I want particularly to address myself to the report which has been prepared for the Town and Country Planning Association. I stress at this stage it is a preliminary report. It has been prepared by Stevan Teodorovic and Associates Pty Ltd, consulting chartered engineers.  Mr Teodorovic  has spent a great deal of his own time and money not only in preparing this report but also in his interest in environmental matters generally and in disposal of waste in particular. I think both the Town and Country Planning Association and that firm should be congratulated on the work that they have done and are doing. The preamble to the Town and Country Planning Association's policy of waste disposal states: 
A further specific issue of concern is the planning of waste disposal as an integral part of urban planning. As a consequence the Association has prepared the report titled 'Proposal for Disposal of Solid, Liquid, and Recyclable Wastes for the State of Victoria'. 
I think every member of this Parliament is most concerned about pollution and what can happen if man does not control liquid and solid wastes. The World Health Organisation has warned us in these terms: 
No environmental health problem has greater significance than the disposal of man's liquid and solid wastes. 
Winston Churchill was not unaware of the problem and issued the following warning: 
In biological history, no organism has survived long if its environment became in some way unfit for it, but no organism before man has deliberately polluted its own environment. 
The matter of disposal of wastes has been mainly a matter of disposing of them at the least possible cost. I will say something later on about the methods by which we dispose of wastes, but little or no thought has been given to the following: Have methods been in harmony with the environment? Is the waste a potential source of financial return through recycling? Is the waste a potential source of heat energy through incineration? Is the waste a potential source of recovery of resources through pyrolysis? Is the waste a potential source of recovery of resources through any other process? Can the constituents of waste be altered at the manufacturing and packaging source to reduce volume of waste needing disposal? 
These are all important matters, and I think it is of some regret that governments of all sorts, but particularly State governments, who have the prime responsibility in this matter, have not done a great deal more. The policy of the Town and Country Planning Association on the question of a State authority for co-ordinating waste disposal states: 
While the report stressed the necessity for planning and co-ordination more emphasis is required to show how this can be achieved. This also applies to statements made in the reports re conducting surveys of potential filling sites, analysis of garbage content, studies of overseas disposal systems, the establishment of car body and scrap metal recycling centres, etc. The seriousness of the waste disposal problem as highlighted by the report would have been given a more positive sense of direction if the recommendations and conclusions had included a statement along the lines that there is a need for a State authority in co-ordinating waste disposal . . . Other States have established such authorities, namely: City of Perth . . . New South Wales- Metropolitan Waste Disposal Authority Act No. 97 of New South Wales'. 
In Victoria the problem is that the State Government has not really carried out the program which has been set before it. I think it is necessary that the people of Victoria and the State Government do something about it. 
I now turn to the question of how we can treat various types of waste. First of all there is socalled sanitary landfill with pollution control, recycling and shredding. There is incineration, incineration with heat utilisation, pyrolysis, sanitary landfill, baling, composting, recycling and hydrosposal. There are also intermediate treatments such as shredding and transfer stations. I think it is a matter of note,  Mr Chairman,  that the Government over the last 2 budgets has provided funds for transfer stations, one of which affects both our electorates in the city of Heidelberg. 
The thing that really concerns me about the present methods of disposal in Australia, and it is something I have only recently realised, is that so-called sanitary landfill disposal is in fact potentially very dangerous. One would imagine that if you put waste materials in a quarry hole and covered it with soil you would largely solve the problem. This is not the case. This is not the practice which is carried out in many countries in Europe. The real problem appears to lie in the fact that the wastes eventually settle down in the hole, the ravine or wherever they happen to be placed and you then get liquor leaching from the wastes, then being transmitted via porous rocks and aquifers into the water system. I have no doubt at all that this is one of the reasons why many of our streams and bays are very seriously polluted. I asked a question in the House this morning about cadmium pollution in Port Phillip Bay together with other pollution by heavy metals. 
The report to which I referred before also points out that in many quarry holes where liquid waste is being placed there is considerable leaching. Some of these quarry holes are very near to the sea or very near to rivers and streams which carry such waste into the sea. In the long run what appears to be a very cheap system and a very satisfactory system of waste disposal is not at all satisfactory. In my own municipality of Diamond Valley a ravine is presently being filled. When I was a councillor of that municipality I helped make the decision to do that. Having learned what I have learned I regret it, and I think that one of the things that ought to be done in such a case is that any effluent coming from the disposal of wastes in this way should be treated as though it were effluent from a septic tank. I believe that the Department of Environment, in enabling reports like this to be prepared and in assisting residents of areas to get information that they can put before government departments, is doing a great service. For this and for the other reasons for which the estimates are to be applied in this year I commend to the Committee the passing of these estimates. 
I address my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Health. Recently I have received a number of letters, as I suppose other honourable members have, about amounts of money being made available for medical and other research. One often hears people saying: 'Well, is the money that we are spending on medical research worth while? Is this research not duplicated in other countries?' and comments of that sort. There is no doubt that research is duplicated in all countries. But there is also a great deal of advantage to Australia in the sort of research that we are doing. I am very pleased to see that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and the Minister for Science  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  have been able to make arrangements within the context of the Budget to ensure that sufficient money is made available for research. 
If there is an area where research is as necessary as in any other, it is in the area of pollution by heavy metals and, as far as I am concerned, particularly where lead is concerned. If there has been a change in the pattern of behaviour and incidence of disease it is far more likely to be due to an established change in the chemical environment than to any alleged social or economic factors. There has been an environmental change related to industry and to the motor vehicle, but there is nothing new about stress. People are generally better off as well as being better nourished. Social and economic factors have remained substantially constant or have improved; the environment has not. 
The major change in life style here and overseas is concerned with the cult and the effects of the motor vehicle. Far more families have far more cars than ever before and they squander so much petrol that the present reserves of it are rapidly dwindling and, in the process, they have created dangerous and massive pollution. Prewar cars used low octane fuel, and although they could go very much faster than present laws allow, pollution by then was negligible. Since then, they have been made with high compression engines and use the high octane fuel no longer needed by transport aircraft. To make this fuel acceptable to motorists the petroleum industry laces it with anti-knock lead so that the engines will run more smoothly. There is now so much of it that every thousand cars blow out at least a ton of lead in aerosol form every year. This does not just go away; it falls out, goes to every part of the world, goes all the way to the poles and contaminates everything, including water storage and vegetation, so that everyone has to eat, drink and breathe lead. They have no choice. Despite the claims of the petrol lobby, lead, however ingested, is an insidious and dangerous poison. It is not only toxic, it is also completely unnecessary to use it, since there are quite acceptable and safe alternatives such as methanol. I agree that at the moment fuel with methanol would cost more than petrol but I think that we ought to consider the other costs associated with what we are doing in our use of petrol. 
The petroleum industry is obviously aware of the danger of indiscriminately fouling the atmosphere with poisonous dust. Therefore they employ a large number of public relations officials with a variety of misleading titles to lull the public into a false sense of security and to stifle criticism. It is not always wise to accept information from their bureau as fact. For example, they would have us believe that people are just not affected by lead unless they are actually dying from what they accept to be lead poisoning. Nobody else, they suggest, is affected at all. This of course is sheer nonsense. It was stated in a recent issue of the  Lancet  that it is difficult to find any scientist not actually employed or paid by the industry who does not deplore the global increase of lead and its implications for world health. Scientists in Australia and throughout the world have been quietly and steadily accumulating evidence about the danger of lead, but such is the power of the industry that they have considerable difficulty in having their views published. This is another good reason why these estimates, which provide for research into medicine, be given the support of this Parliament. When people do put their views forward the spokesmen of the petroleum industry produce one of their prefabricated answers and that is usually the end of it. 
Lead is a neuro-toxin as well as a general one so that it must cause mental and intellectual impairment as well as damaging general physical health. There is persuasive evidence to suggest that this does happen. For at least 2000 years it has been known that lead causes brain damage and for a very long time has been found to be associated with a high incidence of high blood pressure and arterial disease and to cause people to age prematurely. If this means anything it must include the possibility of early development of diseases of the aged and of early death. Lead is suspected to be involved in the great increase in coronary heart disease and death. I must stress that though many of these things cannot be proved absolutely, while there is evidence that such things are caused by lead we ought to be very careful about its use. 
It has also been suggested that lead is a factor in the problem of some sorts of cancer and especially of lung cancer. This has not been proved either, but there is no evidence to the contrary and there seems to be no other explanation. For instance, there has been a rapid increase in lung cancer caused by smoking or allegedly caused by smoking at the same time as levels of lead pollution in the air have risen. Yet, years ago, people smoked a good deal, so one wonders whether in fact tobacco is the only contributing factor to the increase of lung cancer. There appears to be no doubt that lead is directly involved in many otherwise unexplained psychological and neurological phenomena. It has been shown to impair intellectual development and is one of the explanations for the birth of imperfect infants and some so-called minus children, and of hyperactivity, autism, dyslexia and so on. It is also believed to be involved in some cases of multiple sclerosis and other unexplained neurological diseases. There is a good reason to believe that it contributes to abnormal behaviour and that many criminals have an abnormal reaction to lead. I invite honourable members to have a look at the information on this subject which is available in the Parliamentary Library. I believe that they will find it most informative. 
In this country considerable care is taken about substances that are only slightly suspect as health hazards. If the same criteria were to be applied to lead it would have been banned long ago. Recent work in Australia and overseas has proved absolutely and conclusively that the elimination of lead from the body makes for a tremendous improvement in physical and mental health as well as helping many and benefiting many of the sick. People have found their tolerance to alcohol to be altered so that there is no 'hangover'. They feel more alert and generally more fit. It is hoped that the Minister will take these things into account. Surely it is more important to be healthy, vital and virile than to break the speed limit. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  allege that the Government had failed to increase the age pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is a complete fabrication on the part of the honourable member. At the moment average weekly earnings are $155 in raw figures or $153.20 on a seasonally adjusted basis. If we take the age pension of $38.75 and apply it to the raw figure of $155 we find that the pension is 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. If we take $38.75 as a proportion of the seasonally adjusted figure we find that it comes to 25.2 per cent. So not only has the Government reached the target that it promised but it has exceeded it. It does not sit well on the shoulders of the honourable member for Hotham to make such a statement because obviously he has not checked the figures. 
I remind honourable members that in 1970 under the Liberal-Country Party Government the age pension was about 17 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1972, just before the election when the pension was raised, it was about 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
It was the highest it had been for years as the honourable member for Robertson reminds me. In fact in some years the Liberal-Country Party governments gave the pensioners no increase or an increase of only 50c. I think that it is a very poor show for honourable members opposite to allege that this Government has not kept its promise because quite clearly it has done so. I commend the estimates for the Department of Health to the Committee. I say once again how pleased I am that the expenditure on medical research has been upgraded. I believe that in relation to things such as heavy metal pollution this country and the world will gain a great deal from such expenditure. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  my friend and colleague, is an honourable man and I am sure that he brought the matters he mentioned before the Parliament with a very genuine feeling for the people he represents. However, I point out to him that the cut back in the Regional Employment Development scheme was due to the unavoidable necessity to cut down Government spending. In cases where projects have been commenced the Government is prepared to meet the cost of any expense incurred. 
The honourable member for Mallee tells me it is not true but I believe it is as I have been informed that that is the case. Turning now to another matter,  Mr Speaker,  I think that most of us have received letters from public servants who have pointed out to us that in some cases under 20 per cent of their gross income is available to them as disposable income because they have not only to meet the normal requirements of taxation and other outgoings but are required to expend a considerable amount of their income on superannuation payments. They are so far into the superannuation scheme that they cannot do anything about it. It is a matter for regret that people in another place have seen fit to reject the superannuation legislation that was brought before the Parliament. Of course, there is dissension in the Opposition ranks on this matter of superannuation and that indicates- 
There is dissension and I would like to point out where it lies. In the Associate News of the Technical Teachers' Association of Victoria I saw a letter from  Dr George  Smith,  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation, who sent the following letter to both the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  and the Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony.  Their replies do seem to indicate some dissension about this matter. I will read the letter from  Dr Smith.  It states: 
The members of the Australian Teachers' Federation would constitute one of the largest groups of subscribers to a superannuation fund in Australia. These funds are administered by various State authorities and in general they provide for a voluntary retiring age of 60 years. 
I have been requested by the Executive of the ATF to inform you that we support an optional retiring age of 60 and to recommend that your Party should support such provision in the superannuation scheme currently being considered by the Parliament. 
The ATF supports this proposal because a retiring age of 60 provides most people with some years of continuing good health to enjoy their retirement after many years of conscientious work. Moreover, an earlier retiring age provides promotion opportunities to encourage younger people to seek promotion. 
I would be pleased if your Party would support this proposal. 
Yours sincerely. 
The Leader of the Opposition replied in the following terms: 
Dear  Mr Smith, 
Thank you for your letter concerning the Commonwealth Employees Superannuation Scheme. 
The Opposition is firm in its view that the Superannuation Scheme should be based on the notion of a normal retirement at the age of 65. Our proposals provide that retirement between the age of 60 or 65 would result in approximately 2 per cent reduction in retirement benefit for each year below 65. 
We believe that the cost alone of a Scheme based on retirement at 60 would not only be a significant burden on the Australian Taxpayer but would create enormous economic difficulties for an already beleaguered private sector. 
I regret therefore that we unable to support your proposal. 
Yours sincerely, 
The Leader of the National Country Party replied in these terms: 
Dear  Mr Smith, 
Thank you for sending me a copy of your letter to  Mr Fraser,  dated June 30. 
Note that he knew it had been sent. The letter continues: 
The Opposition does support optional retirement between the ages of 60 and 65 under the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme. 
Yours sincerely, J. D. Anthony 
The facts speak for themselves. On such an important matter- a matter that was debated at great length in this House and in the Senateafter many applications and delegations had been received from employees of the Australian Public Service, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party are in disagreement as to their basic attitude to such an important problem. I and the Government Party believe that employees of the Australian Public Service are entitled to a good and proper superannuation scheme. It should be the right of all employees to enjoy a reasonable retirement salary. It is an absolute disgrace that so many people are obliged to suffer a lowering of their standard of living so that they can make payments out of their salary towards the cost of the present scheme which is completely iniquitous and has no relation whatsoever to schemes presently operating in the States. State public servants are very much better off. 
I understand that the proposals are to be placed before the Opposition parties in the hope that a compromise might be reached in this matter. I hope that all parties would agree, in the interests of Commonwealth employees, that at least on a temporary basis something should be done to remedy the iniquitous situation which presently applies. We, as a national Parliament, should have done something about this matter a long time ago. It is a disgrace that people are obliged to live on less than 20 per cent of their salary. I think it speaks volumes, when it is quite clearly shown that the letters had been sent to both the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party, that on such an important matter these 2 gentlemen should disagree. I hope that members of this Parliament will very quickly resolve this matter to the benefit of the Australian public servants. 
Those of us who have taken an interest in the Australian Constitution over recent years, I believe, have come to the point of view that there is a great need for reform, and the referendums which have been put to the Australian people recently are an example of the desire of this Government to effect reforms to the Constitution. This Bill, which deals with the reference of powers from the Commonwealth to the States and the reference of powers from the States to the Commonwealth, has the support of the Opposition. 
I listened with interest to the remarks of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  and his suggestion that the Parliament ought to make sure that proposed new subsection 108a (2.) receives the complete support of the Senate. I think this is important. How long we delay it, however, is another matter, and of course it is not up to me to decide that. I take the right honourable member's point that in putting a referendum proposal- and I believe this is an important one- all political parties and all States should support it, because lack of such support makes it very difficult to have a referendum proposal accepted. 
We live in a very much different Australia from the Australia in which the founders of the Constitution lived. They worked on the Constitution for a considerable number of years before it was finally carried as an Act of the United Kingdom Parliament and became the Constitution of this country. It was very much a compromise even in those days. If honourable members study the Constitution Act they will see that in the initial stages it was not necessarily intended that Western Australia should become a member of the Federation in the first instance. As it turned out, Western Australia did become a member of the Federation, and I think that was very much to the advantage of this country as a whole. However, that just indicates that at that stage some of the States and very many people in Australia did have reservations about whether we should join together in a federation of the various colonies. 
These problems have continued, of course, as time has gone on. In fact, the problems that were associated with the forming of the Federation have in many cases become worse with the passing of the years. So we find inherent in our Constitution provisions which would not be included in a constitution which was written today. However, we all realise the great difficulty in changing specific provisions of the Constitution to allow for the need for change. The Constitution Alteration (Inter-change of Powers) Bill is one way in which we can overcome some of these difficulties. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  mentioned some of the powers which could be referred. I will not cover that ground again but I shall refer to one matter which is of considerable interest to me, and that is the question of road safety and the interchange of powers between the States and the Commonwealth in this matter.- The first report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, of which I was a member, made a recommendation to the Parliament that the constitutional position so far as road safety is concerned ought to be carefully examined. The Committee did this because we realised that there-is considerable difficulty. 
I do not know whether honourable members understand that in every State there is a different accident report form and that the people who are concerned with the forms, representatives of the police forces in the various States, for instance, argue that their form is the most suitable one for them. This situation raises very serious problems in arriving at reliable statistics when.it comes to a consideration of matters affecting- road safety. These constitutional problems would, I believe, be largely overcome if this referendum is carried and the States can refer powers. It is not a matter on which a great deal of heat is engendered by either side- the Australian Government or the governments of the various States. The fact that the Road Safety and Standards Authority is being established at Albury-Wodonga is a good indication of the co-operation which is coming forward even at this stage. But I believe that that is not sufficient. We need something written into our Constitution to enable a formalization of any agreements which may be arrived at in cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
An important matter- this has been discussed before both at the Constitutional Convention and here- is whether the powers should be able to be revoked by either the Commonwealth or the States. I think that I should read the letters which were presented at the first Constitutional Convention in Sydney in September 1973. The New South Wales submission read: 
At present, uncertainties exist as to the manner in which placitum (xxxvii) of section 51- the 'reference power'operates. The limited use made of the power in the past is no doubt attributable in large measure to such uncertainties. 
It is considered that, by constitutional amendment, these uncertainties should be removed by providing, for example, that references of legislative power by States to the Commonwealth may be made for limited terms and that repeal of a reference act has constitutional efficacy, and also that the Commonwealth Parliament might refer to the States any legislative power of the Commonwealth. 
The Victorian submission read: 
It is submitted that this provision should be amended to remove uncertainties that presently exist- to ensure that a reference- 
is not irrevocable; 
may be for a fixed or determinable period; and 
may be subject to terms and conditions. 
It is quite clear from both these letters from New South Wales and Victoria and also from other letters written and remarks made by other State representatives that this Bill in principle at least has very general agreement. I would hope that if there are any difficulties as mentioned by the right honourable member for Bruce they can be quickly ironed out so that we can put to the Australian people a very clear and decisive referendum proposal which will be carried overwhelmingly. I believe that this would be very much for the better government of his country. The way in which the referendum is worded of course is important. The States in referring powers to the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth in referring powers to the States must have an understanding . that if the situation alters the reference can be reversed. As I understand from reading the Bill the States still will have control because they can revoke any of the powers which have been given at any stage. 
Before concluding I would like to say something about the role of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in pushing forward with these constitutional reforms. I think constitutional reform is long overdue and the Prime Minister will be remembered in time to come for it. No doubt the lead which he has given will be taken up in the future. For a long time there has been a need to do something about the matters which this Bill considers. Until the referendum in 1967 dealing with the breaking of the nexus and the changing of the powers as they applied to Aboriginal people in Australia was carried a referendum had not been put to the Australian people for many years. It is a matter of record and a matter of fact that in many other countries which require constitutions to be changed the constitutional amendments have been carried much more frequently than they have here. 
The remarks made by members of the Opposition parties lead me to believe that there is a very good chance that this referendum, once put to the people, will be carried. I hope that members in another place adopt a similar attitude because without that sort of general support I, together with the right honourable member for Bruce, am rather afraid that a referendum would not be carried. I see a very pressing need to do something about this matter. I think that such powers would be very much to the advantage of the people of Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Is the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs aware of continued concern expressed by individuals and organisations about metric conversion? Since the program of metric conversion began, has a reassessment of the program been made particularly with respect to difficulties experienced in such industries as building and shoe manufacture? If a reassessment of the program has not been made, would the Minister be prepared to call for a report on this matter? 
-When speaking during the adjournment debate on 2 October 1975 I commented on the criticisms made by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  of the Regional Employment Development scheme. He had complained of alleged injustices caused to sponsors of projects which had been approved under this scheme but which now, because of budgetary constraints, could not be funded. The honourable member for Mallee had complained that in many cases sponsors had had projects approved and had in good faith entered into expenditure on materials and preparation for the project, implying that the sponsor- in many cases local government or community organisations with limited financial resources- would have to foot the bill themselves now that the project would not go ahead. In looking at  Hansard,  it seemed to me that there could be some misunderstanding so I sought further advice on this subject from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland). 
I can now provide some clarification of my remarks of 2 October 1975 following the speech of the honourable member for Mallee. A Press statement was released by the Minister for Labor and Immigration on 10 September following a meeting of the ministerial committee which administers the Regional Employment Development scheme. The relevant part of the statement indicates that projects which had not been started would not now receive funds, although the Budget allocation of $ 135 m should enable all projects already commenced to be continued to the extent of the grant initially approved. The  only exceptions to this principle were a small number of projects approved but not started in areas of more than 10 per cent local unemployment. The Press statement goes on to say with regard to projects approved in other areas which will not be funded that 'claims for any legitimate expenditure of moneys already incurred in relation to these projects would be considered sympathetically and speedily'.  Senator James  McClelland has advised me that in fact it is proposed to reimburse the sponsors of these projects for all legitimate expenditures they have incurred subsequent to being advised regarding approval of the projects. I think it was on this point that I had some misunderstanding with the honourable member for Mallee. I trust that this statement will clarify the situation. I seek leave of the House to incorporate the Press statement of the Minister in  Hansard. 
At a meeting of Ministers administering the Regional Employment Development Scheme on Wednesday, 10 September 1975, consideration was given to the results of a review, undertaken by the Department of Labor and Immigration, of projects approved after 30 June 1973 and of those approved before that date on which work had not begun. Officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration contacted sponsors of all those projects and sought information as to whether work had started or not, and what financial commitments had been incurred. Pending the completion of the review, and the finalisation of Budgetary provision for funds for the Scheme, those sponsors were told that they should not assume that funds would be available to enable completion of the work and that, if work had not started by the engagement of unemployed workers, then it should be held in abeyance. 
At their meeting the Ministers decided that the $135 million provided in the Budget for the Scheme in 1 975-76: 
should enable all projects already commenced, i.e. on which unemployed workers had been engaged, to be continued within their approved financial allocation under the Scheme; 
the projects which had not already commenced should proceed now only in the small number of areas experiencing most severe unemployment. In general this would mean a local unemployment rate of twice the national rate; 
that all other projects previously approved should not be funded but that claims for any legitimate expenditure of moneys already incurred in relation to these projects would be considered sympathetically and speedily; and 
that no new requests for assistance under the Scheme would be accepted. 
The Ministers also decided that no further cost escalation would be funded on projects other than in the most exceptional circumstances. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is completely on the wrong tram. It may be offensive for some people to be regarded as Christians or to have to put down on a form what is termed a christian name when they are Moslem, Jewish, agnostic or something else. 
Yes, but the argument does not apply in reverse. I fail to see how it can be at all repugnant for someone to put down his name as a given name, no matter of what religion he might be. The majority of people in Australia who have a religion would have Christianity as their religion. Christian names are given names. They are Christian names because people are baptised into the Christian religion. I think the argument that a form which includes the words 'Given Names' could be repugnant to a Christian person is completely ridiculous. The honourable member for Griffith went on to talk about our way of life and things like that. Members of the Opposition only use these sorts of arguments when it suits them. At the moment they are talking about doing something which I, as a democrat, regard as being quite repugnant. They only use these sorts of rules when it suits them. 
I move on to some other matters contained in the Bill. The question of mobile polling booths interests me greatly. I have raised this matter in the House previously and I think it ought to be underlined. My scrutineers noticed at the last election that the postal votes which were cast early, the ones that were organised in hospitals, for example, showed a much greater support for the Liberal Party than would be the case in any subdivision in the whole electorate. The reason is transparently clear. Members of the Liberal Party or people paid by them had gone around the hospitals and organised the votes. I fail to believe that these votes would be any different in normal circumstances from the votes that would apply in the rest of the community. It is my strong belief that many people lodging a postal vote are coerced into voting a certain way. People in hospital also hand over their ballot papers to political organisers and other people who are trusted by the organisers to fill them in. These ballot papers are presented to the various electoral offices as the vote of the individual in hospital. Of course these things are very difficult to prove. If they could be proved the people responsible would be subject to criminal charges. I have no doubt that these sorts of things go on. Why we should not pass a Bill which would allow mobile polling booths and which would allow elections to be conducted by properly authorised officers of the Australian Electoral Office I do not know. It seems to me that there is a great deal of humbug in this matter, and it is something which concerns me greatly. 
I think reform is long overdue in the section of the principal Act which refers to unacceptable names. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech mentioned some of them. It is quite obvious to anybody who looks at the matter that names of candidates can be altered in such a way as to provide some sort of election slogan. I know it is the desire of the Government side of the House to get this Bill to the Committee stage. Having made those points, I will leave my speech at that, but I emphasise that these reforms are long overdue. Any party or parties which say they stand for common justice and a free electoral system ought to support the Bill. I find that many of the arguments put forward by members of the Opposition are quite spurious. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Distribution Commissioners). 
Further to the answer given by the Treasurer earlier, is the Minister for Defence able to say what will be the consequences to the defence forces of delay in passing the Budget? 
-I present the tenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of allegations of bias and prejudice which have been recently made against officers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Has he had an opportunity to examine these allegations and can he inform the House whether there is any substance in them? 
